Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18756
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-TH)
December 31, 1998
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$ 1.0 - B 40.0
B 1.0 - US$ 0.025
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV            -     kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA           -     kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA           -     megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW            -     kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km            -     kilometer
MW            -     megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh           -     kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh           -     gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
MMt           -     million metric tons
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EGAT          -     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR           -     Economic Rate of Return
FPO           -     Fiscal Policy Office
FRR           -     Internal Financial Rate of Return
MEA           -     Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF           -     Ministry of Finance
NEA           -     National Energy Administration
NEPO          -     National Energy Policy Office
NESDB         -     National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF          -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PEA           -     Provincial Electricity Authority
PDP           -     Power Development Plan
ROR           -     Rate of Return
RTG           -     Royal Thai Government
SFR           -     Self-Financing Ratio
Regional Vice President:              Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:                     Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager:                       Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                         Darayes Mehta, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ..............1i
Evaluation Summary ..............                                                      ii
Part I      Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives. 
B. Achievement of Objectives                              .3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                       .8
D. Project Sustainability .10
E.    Bank Performance.                                                           1 
F. Borrower Performance .12
G. Assessment of Outcome .12
H. Future Operations .13
I. Key Lessons Leamed .14
Part II    Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3:  Project Timetable .18
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements                              .18
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7:   Studies included in the Project .19
Table 8A: Project Costs .20
Table 8B:  Project Financing .20
Table 9:   Economic Costs & Benefits (EIRR) .21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .24
Annexes
Annex A.  Mission's Aide Memoire .................................................    26
Annex B.  Operational Plan .................................................          31
Annex C.  Borrower's Evaluation Report .................................................  34
Annex D.  Ex-post Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return ........................... 39
Annex E.  PEA's Key Financial Indicators .................................................  40
Annex F.  Reliability improvement indices .................................................  43
Map:        IBRD No. 22868
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3404-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Distribution System
Upgrading Project in Thailand, for which Loan No. 3404-TH, in the amount of US$40
million equivalent was approved on September 24, 1991 and made effective on February
14, 1992. Cofinancing of the project was provided by the Government of Japan by an
OECF loan in the amount of US$52 million as well as by a Japan Grant in the amount of
US$0.9 million.
The loan closing date was extended by two years, to March 31, 1998. The loan
account was closed on August 14, 1998, with an undisbursed balance of US$6.9 million
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Kurt Schenk, Power Specialist, and Yuling Zhou,
Operations Officer, EASEG, and reviewed by Rebecca Sekse, Financial Analyst and
Darayes Mehta, Task Manager for the Project, and endorsed by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector
Manager, EASEG, and Jayasankar Shivakumar, Country Director, EACTF.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in June 1998 prior to the Bank's ICR mission
to Thailand in June/July 1998. It is based on materials in the project file, and on
information and comments provided by the Borrower and implementing agency,
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA). The aide memoire of the ICR mission is attached
as Annex A. The Borrower's own evaluation report is attached as Annex C.



ii
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3404-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    The Bank has been actively involved in the power sector in Thailand since the
1960s. Assistance has been provided to the three Thai electric utilities (i.e. EGAT, MEA
and PEA) in system planning, in implementing large power system expansion programs
in generation, transmission and distribution, and in supporting institutional development.
With specific regard to PEA, the Bank's association has contributed to PEA's
institutional development in strategic and project planning and implementation,
distribution system planning, materials management, electronic data processing and
manpower development. As part of the Bank's assistance program, Loan 3404-TH, in the
amount of US$40 million, was approved by the Bank in September 1991 to finance the
Distribution System Upgrading Project for PEA. The project was cofinanced by an OECF
loan (US$52 million) and a Japan Grant (US$0.9 million). The loan was closed on March
31, 1998 after two one-year extensions.
B.   Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project are to: (a) help meet the growth in power
demand in one of the most rapidly industrializing areas of Thailand at optimal reliability
and costs; (b) improve PEA's technical and management capabilities to face the
challenges of rapid growth in its service area; and (c) ensure through the monitoring of
appropriate financial covenants that PEA's financial strength remains adequate to support
its growth (para. 6). The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project.
They were significant, clear, for the most part realistic and in line with the needs of the
sector and the Country Assistance Strategy at the time.
C.   Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Overall the objectives of the project have been achieved, notwithstanding
considerable implementation delays. Because of these delays, implementation of the
project is satisfactory though marginally so. At the time of loan closing, the Bank-
financed component was only 93% complete but expected to be fully completed from
PEA own budget by April 1999. The OECF-financed component (albeit expanded) was
86% complete and expected to be completed by July 2000 at which time the entire project



iii
will be five years behind schedule. However, the physical objectives of the project, when
completed, are expected to be fully achieved or surpassed. The physical infrastructure
completed under the project are expected to be well operated and maintained hence likely
to be sustainable. They are expected to provide higher reliability levels to the industrial
areas around Bangkok where the project is located and this could facilitate economic
recovery.
4.    The main factors contributing to the implernentation delays include (paras. 31-
35): (i) protracted procurement decisions; (ii) change of consultants for substations during
contract award; (iii) lengthy and cumbersome process of land acquisition for substations;
and (iv) a fragmented project team on the Borrower's side. During the latter stages of the
project, delays were also caused by contractors' cash flow problems due to the financial
crisis in Thailand, which were beyond PEA's control.
5.    The institutional development impact has been substantial. PEA is well underway
to becoming a more commercialized entity. A more business-focused Five-Year
Corporate Plan has made customer service, operational excellence and environmental
consciousness part of PEA's core values which reflect large improvements in technical
and managerial capabilities. The implementation of the organizational restructuring plan
is still in progress under subsequent Bank projects (Loans 3798-TH and 4067-TH). It
should be noted that the organizational plan approved by PEA's Board in February 1998
is at variance with the plan agreed with the Bank under the above loans. In the new plan
the core network businesses in the four regions will be retained within PEA and not spun-
off as subsidiary companies (para. 21c). On-going discussions are being held with PEA
and the Government (NEPO) on this matter.
6.    The financial objective has been achieved. Up to the loan closing PEA had been
performing well financially and had been in compliance with all of the loan's financial
covenants. Following the country's severe financial crisis and economic downturn in
1997, non-compliance was expected with regard to the self-financing ratio in FY98 (7.5%
projected versus 25% covenanted) (paras. 26-27). However, even under a pessimistic load
growth scenario, PEA's projections show that the financial covenants would be complied
with from FY99 onwards. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the economic crisis in the
region is introducing a high level of uncertainty in any projection.
Project Costs
7.    At appraisal, the estimated total project cost was US$184.0 million. The final cost
is now estimated at US$199.3 million equivalent, about 8% higher than the appraisal
estimate. Given the under-utilization of the Bank loan (by about US$6.9 million),
appreciation of the Japanese Yen (the OECF loan is denominated in Yen) and the
expanded project scope, this slight increase would not imply an underestimate or a cost
overrun (para. 29). At loan closing, the loan had disbursed US$3.1 million; an
undisbursed amount of US$6.9 million was canceled on August 14, 1998.



iv
Economic Evaluation
8.    The re-estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is 13% (Bank-financed
component), below the SAR's estimate of 17%. There are two main reasons for this
reduction: (i) expected decrease in sales forecasts for the period considered; and (ii)
implementation delays. Nevertheless, the 13% EIRR still shows a reasonable economic
viability compared to the opportunity cost of capital of about 1O%.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project, when completed, is
expected to meet or exceed its physical objectives. The sustainability of the project in
regard to its physical components will depend largely on an effective operation and
maintenance of facilities whose likelihood is high, given the importance of the project to
PEA and the need to meet the industrial load in the area efficiently. The Bank's and the
Borrower's performance are deemed largely satisfactory.
10.   Results and recommendations from the institutional development components
have already been or are being incorporated into PEA's practices. The reliability
improvement program is already delivering expected results (paras. 19-20). Better
manpower utilization has increased the average sales per employee and the number of
customers per employee. Comprehensive Five Year Corporate Plans and Annual Action
Plans are now being prepared which reflect large improvements in PEA's technical and
managerial capabilities. PEA is also well underway on the road to becoming a more
commercialized entity.
11.   Since the Bank-financed portion of the project is not expected to be completed till
April 1999 and the overall project including the OECF-financed component till July
2000, the Bank will continue to monitor PEA's operations and project performance
through its on-going lending and institutional development programs and policy dialogue
with the Government/PEA. The main task of the Borrower is to continue preparation of
project progress reports including monitoring indicators for the project and to
communicate to the Bank if there are any changes to the agreed schedules. Operational
plans to ensure the sustainability of the outcome achieved under the project were
discussed with PEA during the ICR mission and are attached to this ICR.
12.   Several key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for the
design of future power sector projects, can be drawn from this project: (i) PEA's
bureaucratic procurement processes were a leading cause of project implementation
delays; (ii) a fully integrated Project Team could have mitigated many of the delays
caused by insufficient coordination experienced by the project; and (iii) actions on land
acquisition should be taken early on during project preparation stage to avoid or minimize
or quickly solve problems.



DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-TH)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    PEA's investments to finance distribution of power to the provinces began on a
planned basis in early 1960 with the formation of PEA (Provincial Electricity Authority).
When the project was being prepared, PEA's investments priorities for the medium term
concentrated on (a) expanding and reinforcing distribution networks servicing large town
centers; (b) implementing distribution system upgrading (to 115 kV) in high-growth
industrial areas; and (c) introducing improvements in system operating efficiency. The
development of industrial estates in a U-shaped geographical area surrounding Bangkok
provided the impetus for this project which provided a significant expansion and
upgrading of PEA's distribution system in the area.
2.    The project was in line with Government strategy and in particular in stimulating
industrial growth outside the capital area, with the development of infrastructure and
granting of tax incentives to promote such growth, as well as with its commitment to
improve sector performance through efficiency improvements, corporatization and
encouraging private sector participation.
3.    At the time the project was prepared the Bank's strategy in the power sector in
Thailand consisted in assisting EGAT (Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand) and
the Government in planning and implementing a large generation expansion program.
The subsequent involvement of the Bank in planning and implementation of a rapidly
growing power distribution program was a logical step in its strategy. This was reinforced
later in the Bank's CAS (Country Assistance Strategy) which was presented to the Board
on September 24, 1994. Among the priority areas for Bank assistance is the development
of physical infrastructure.
4.    The Bank has been assisting the three electric utilities in Thailand (EGAT, MEA
and PEA) since the 1960s in system planning and implementing large power system
expansion programs in generation, transmission and distribution, and in supporting
institutional development. Of the 26 Bank power loans to Thailand, six have been made
to PEA (three for rural electrification and three for distribution reinforcement - including
this loan), two have been made to MEA (Metropolitan Electricity Authority) for
improvement and reinforcement of its distribution system and the remaining 18 have
been made to EGAT and its predecessor for. financing expansion of electricity generation
and transmission facilities. The three rural electrification loans to PEA have been fully
disbursed and have met largely their objectives. The main lesson learned from these loans



-2 -
was the need to estimate costs with much greater accuracy; a factor that was taken into
account in the design of this project.
5.    The World Bank's Board of Directors approved a US$40 million loan for PEA
on September 24, 1991 with a guarantee from the Kingdom of Thailand. The project was
expected to be implemented over four years with a total investment of US$184 million
and would finance about 2% of PEA's 1991-1996 investment program. The original loan
closing date was March 31, 1996. PEA would bear the foreign exchange risk. The project
was cofinanced by OECF which provided a loan of US$52 million. A Japan Grant of
US$0.9 million provided for consultancy services. The balance was provided by PEA.
The project was declared effective on February 14, 1992.
6.    The main objectives of the project were three fold:
(1) Physical objective: to help meet the growth in power demand in one of the
most rapidly industrializing areas of Thailand at optimal reliability and costs
by:
(a)  construction of about 18 new 115/22 kV transformer and switching
substations with a total capacity of about 900 MVA (of these, about 8
substations would be financed by the Bank and the rest by OECF);
(b)  construction of about 19, 115 kV transmission line circuits totaling a
length of about 500 km (of these about 8 transmission circuits totaling
about 260 km would be financed by the Bank and the rest by OECF).
(2) Institutional objective: to improve PEA's technical and management
capabilities to face the challenges of rapid growth in its service area by:
(a)  training of PEA staff in 115 kV system planning, design, operation and
maintenance;
(b)  improving PEA's capabilities in computerized distribution planning and
design;
(c)  strengthening PEA's organizational structure;
(d)  consulting study for improving system reliability.
(3) Financial objective: to ensure through the monitoring of appropriate
financial covenants that PEA's financial strength remains adequate to support
its growth.
7.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
clearly stated, for the most part realistic and responsive to the need to expand and upgrade



- 3 -
PEA's distribution system to deliver power to new areas while enhancing reliability of
the system to acceptable levels.
8.    Financial covenants: The Loan Agreement included financial covenants. Of
these, the most important ones were (i) achieving annually a self financing ratio (SFR) of
not less than 25%, and (ii) maintaining long term debt not exceeding 1.5 times capital
plus surplus and medium term debt at no more than 15% of all debt.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overall Results
9.    Overall the objectives of the project have been achieved notwithstanding
substantial implementation delays. Project implementation is satisfactory, though
marginally so, because of delays. Despite two one-year extensions, at the time of loan
closing (March 31, 1998), the Bank-financed component was only 93% complete (but
expected to be fully completed by April 1999, four years behind schedule). The OECF-
financed component, expanded to include additional transmission lines and substations
(para. 14), was 86% complete and expected to be fully completed by July 2000, five years
behind schedule. Nevertheless, when completed the physical targets of the project will be
achieved or surpassed.
10.   The institutional development impact of the project is substantial. PEA is well
underway to becoming a more commercialized entity. PEA has prepared 5-year
Corporate Plans and Annual Action Plans centered on reliability, rural electrification
expansion, managerial and operational efficiency, human resource development, and
customer services, which reflect large improvements in its technical and managerial
capabilities. The Corporate Plans include indicators to measure PEA's performance.
11.   The project components to provide training of PEA staff and to improve PEA's
capability in computerized distribution planning and design and in assessing various
schemes for reliability improvement have been very successful. The institutional
objectives of strengthening PEA's organizational structure have provided the stimulus to
transform PEA from a centrally controlled government agency to a holding company with
regionally decentralized corporate subsidiaries. Implementation of an Action Plan for
organizational restructuring is proceeding under ongoing Bank projects (Loan 3798-TH
and 4067-TH) albeit with some deviations from the agreed plan (para. 21c).
12.   During the period 1991-1998, PEA has made satisfactory improvements in: (i)
reducing distribution losses by 27% (para. 19), (ii) increasing reliability in terms of both
SAIFI and SAIDI indices (para. 20) ; (iii) meeting the demand which increased during the
project period at an average 15% annually; (iv) manpower utilization as evidenced by
increasing average sales per employee by 128% from 72,666 kWh to 165,445 kWh; and



- 4 -
by increasing number of customers per employee by 43% from 247 customers to 353
customers. These improvements reflect the more commercial nature of its operations.
13.   Loan Disbursement and Cancellation. At the termination of the grace period
on July 31, 1998, the loan disbursed US$33.1 million. An undisbursed balance of US$6.9
million (or 17% of the original loan amount) was canceled on August 14, 1998.
14.   OECF Expanded Project Scope. As the demand for electricity in the project
areas was rapidly increasing, PEA requested OECF in early 1997 to extend the scope of
the project to include five additional transmission line circuits and eight substations,
including four switching substations. When completed, the total substation capacity
financed by OECF will be 1,650 MVA as compared to a SAR total of about 450 MVA.
No additional financing was required for this expanded scope because of the appreciation
of the Yen in the intervening years.
15.   Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR). The project is part of PEA's least-
cost expansion program. The EIRR was based on the incremental economic costs and
benefit streams associated with the Bank-financed project component and based on a
project economic life of 25 years. The cost streams comprised: (a) investments in the 115
kV lines and 115/22 kV substations under the project (excluding duties, taxes and IDC);
(b) investments in the downstream distribution network to support the demand growth;
(c) cost of energy purchase from EGAT evaluated on the basis of long-run marginal costs
(LRMC); and (d) incremental operation and maintenance and administration costs of
running the system expansion computed at 2.5% of the incremental capital costs. Project
justification was therefore based in the SAR for the time period, 1991/92-1995/96, of
which the project's investment component was envisaged to be a part. This delivered a
forecast EIRR of 17%. This EIRR has been recalculated using updated data for the period
FY 92-FY99 which, due to implementation delays, is the period the project ended up
covering. The re-estimated EIRR is 13%. The detailed ex-post EIRR calculation is
presented in Annex D.
16.   The lower-than-expected EIRR was mainly due to a low sales growth scenario
that is used under the current economic situation as well as the four year project delay
expected for the Bank-financed component. Nevertheless, the re-estimated 13% EIRR
still shows a reasonable economic viability of the Bank financed project compared to the
opportunity cost of capital of about 10%.
Review of Physical Objectives
17.   Construction of New Substations. A total of 34 substations comprising 26
115/22kV transformer substations (T/S) and eight 115 kV switching substations (S/S)
will be built when the project is fully completed in July 2000. This exceeds the SAR
target of 18 substations in total. The transformer capacity that will be added is expected to
be 2,350 MVA as compared with an SAR target of 900 MVA. The actual number of
substations to be financed by the Bank loan will be 12 (with eight 115/22 kV T/S and



- 5 -
four 115 kV S/S, with a total capacity of 700 MVA), compared to a target of eight at
appraisal (Table 5). All Bank-financed substations are expected to be completed by April
1999. All OECF substations are expected to be completed by July 2000. At present (June
1998) six Bank-financed substations have been energized with utilization factors (i.e.
demand/capacity) varying between 25% to 88%.
18.   Construction of New Transmission Lines. When completed, a total of 28
transmission line circuits totaling 820 ckm will be built including 13 transmission line
circuits (388 ckm) for the Bank-financed component and 15 transmission line circuits
(432 ckm) for the OECF financed component. This exceeds the SAR target of 26
transmission line circuits totaling about 500 ckm.
19.   Impact of New Facilities on PEA's System;. Although the project is not yet
completed, the energized substations and transmission lines are already assisting in
meeting the power demand in the project area: sales have increased from 20,812 GWh in
FY91 to 50,333 GWh at present. During the same period the number of PEA's customers
increased by 51% to reach 10.6 million, and energy losses in the distribution network
were reduced from 7.1% to 5.2%.
20.   To gauge the specific impact of the new substations on reliability, four of them
were specially monitored during a seven month period prior (October 1995 - April 1996)
and after (October 1996 - April 1997) construction and energization. The average
interruption frequency and interruption duration indices of reliability in terms of SAIFI
(outages/customer/year) and SAIDI (min/customer/year) decreased by an average of 57%
and 58%, respectively. In addition, the new investments are expected to reduce system-
wide SAIFI and SAIDI from 1997 to 2001 (when all substations and transmission lines
are expected to be energized), by 13% and 46% respectively, with the largest expected
reduction in the industrial estate sector of 20% and 75%, respectively (Annex F).
Review of Institutional Development Objectives
21.   Development of PEA  Transmission  and  Distribution  System   and
Strengthening of PEA Organizational Structure. Start of the technical assistance (TA)
was delayed due to problems with the first selected consultant. With the Bank's approval
the second ranked consultant was selected. The scope of work of the Consultant, as stated
in the final TOR, was slightly changed from what was stated in the SAR with the Bank
concurrence and consisted of: (i) detailed designs of 115 kV transmission system and
substations; (ii) training of PEA engineers concerning 115 kV transmission system and
substations and development of TDSM (Transmission and Distribution System
Management); and (iii) strengthening of PEA's organizational structure. The slight
changes in scope made this TA more relevant to the needs of PEA at the time. Each of the
above TA will be taken up next.
(a) Detailed designs of 115 kV transmission system and substations.
Recommendations made to obtain greater cost-effectiveness in PEA's designs



- 6 -
(particularly for 115/22 kV substations) are being implemented. They include the
introduction of computer controlled substations and cost-effective design changes
such as the cessation of installing separate control panels for MV indoor
switchgear. The outcome of this TA is satisfactory.
(b) Training of PEA engineers concerning 115 kV transmission system and
substations and TDSM. Since the training in most aspects of transmission
system planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance (as stated in the
SAR) was already being carried out within PEA, the scope of training was
changed, with Bank concurrence, to be more relevant to PEA needs at the time.
This included training in (i) modem protection systems; (ii) power system
analysis and optimization; (iii) TDSM systems; and (iv) computer aided design
(CAD). As a result of this training, PEA's capabilities in computerized system
planning and design were also enhanced. Training of staff was successful with
most of the trained engineers staying in their jobs. The outcome of this TA is
satisfactory.
(c) Strengthening of PEA 's organizational structure. The main purpose of this TA
was to work towards a strengthened organizational structure which is best suited
to the changed environment and enable PEA to adjust to future performance
needs. This TA initiated a process of organizational reform, including
commercialization, within PEA, whose detailed formulation and implementation
are being carried out under subsequent Bank financed projects (Loans 3798-TH
and 4067-TH). The outcome of this TA is deemed to be satisfactory.!'
22.    System  Reliability Improvement.  Three separate studies were undertaken by
three different Consultants, all feeding into one another, namely: (i) Reliability Study of
PEA System, finalized in August 1995; (ii) Study on System Loss Reduction and
Increase in System Reliability, finalized in June 1996, and (iii) Feasibility Study of
Distribution System Reliability Improvement Project, finalized in May 1996. As system
losses were deemed to be already low (at 5% level) and with Bank concurrence, the
JJ   The implementation of an organizational restructuring plan,; under Loans 3798-TH and 4067-TH, is not
according to schedule mainly due to: (i) delays in carrying out the Consultant's and Bank's recommendations
and thus not achieving the agreed target dates, and (ii) changes in the restructuring plan agreed with the Bank.
PEA is going ahead with a new plan which was approved by its Board in February 1998 and is expected to be
approved by the Parliarnent and Ministry of Interior within the last quarter of 1998. With the approval of the
Parliament, the PEA Act will be amended to allow for creation of subsidiaries which the present Act does not
allow. The Bank had advised PEA that under the subsequent project covenants (i.e. for Loans 3798 and 4067),
any revision to the original plan required prior review and approval by the Bank. PEA provided the Bank with
explanations for the noted deviations as required. Nevertheless it is proceeding with the new plan which has two
principal deviations from the agreed original plan: (i) the four PEA regional units are no longer envisaged for
formation initially as profit centers and subsequently as subsidiary companies. Instead, it is proposed that only
the service function of billing and collection will be formed as regional subsidiary companies, with the
distribution operations being retained within PEA. In essence the core network business in the four regions will
be retained within PEA; and (ii) there will be delays in developing and implementing a cost accounting system in
the core distribution and supply business. The absence of such system will affect (a) the regional distribution
units being formed as cost centers, and eventually transformed to profit centers, and (b) the separation of non-
core operations as subsidiary companies.



-7 -
above studies concentrated mainly on improving system reliability. Out of the above
studies came improved ways of calculating SAEFI and SAIDI, enhanced operational and
control standards, and distribution system design configuration improvements, including
looped systems, which are starting to impact very positively on system reliability. PEA
has adopted the recommendations of these studies which are being implemented through
a five-year project on Distribution System Reliability Improvement financed by an OECF
loan. The outcome of this TA is satisfactory.
Review of Financial Objective
23.   The financial objective as defined in the SAR was to 'ensure through the
monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that PEA's financial strength remain
adequate to support its growth'. To this end three financial covenants were introduced
into the Loan Agreement: (i) self-financing ratio of at least 25%, (ii) debt equity ratio of
at most 1.5x; and (iii) outstanding short and medium term debt not to exceed 15% of total
debt. In addition, PEA was required to review its compliance status based on its financial
forecast each year and funish the Bank a copy of such review. PEA was further required
annually to update and discuss with the Bank its five-year investment program and keep
the Bank informed about the implementation of such investment program.
24.   PEA recorded satisfactory financial performance during 1991 to 1996. Its energy
sales increased during the period by an average of 15% per annum, while the net
operating income increased by 13% per annum. However, in 1997 the financial crisis
negatively affected PEA's financial perfornance. Due to a combination of factors
including a weakening of the demand growth for electricity, the steep depreciation of the
Baht against the US$, high debt service requirements, and limited funding resources,
PEA's finances came under heavy stress. Furthermore, the currency devaluation resulted
in a sharp jump in foreign exchange losses in 1997, which were partially charged to
income, and resulted in a 25% drop in net income from Baht 12 billion in 1996 to Baht
9.1 billion in 1997.
25.   The crisis depressed the demand for electricity in PEA's service area resulting in a
demand growth of only 6%, a significant drop from the pre-crisis rate of about 12%. In
line with the Government's policy and national austerity measures and in response to the
economic slowdown, PEA revised its investment program in the order of Baht 19.3
billion for the period 1998-2000. Finally, due to the prevailing liquidity squeeze
experienced by the Government, PEA was required to remit to the Government on top of
the regular 35% of net income (Baht 4.6 billion), an additional sum of Baht 3.6 billion
bringing total remittance to Baht 8.2 billion in 1998, representing 90% of PEA's 1997 net
income. PEA's net income for 1998 is projected to be Baht 8.5 billion, about 7% below
the 1997 level. In the light of recent gloomy predictions about the economic crisis in the
country, these projections could be optimistic (paras. 36-37).



- 8 -
Compliance with Financial Covenants
26.   PEA has been in compliance with all the Bank's financial covenants. For 1997,
PEA's self-financing ratio of 26% met the required 25%; the debt equity ratio of 0.6
satisfied the maximum limit of 1.5 times; PEA continued to have no short and medium
term debt satisfying the requirement of no more than 15% of total outstanding debt.
27.   For 1998, PEA projected that it would com-lply with the debt equity ratio (0.7
times) and the short and medium term debt limit (0%). However, because of the huge
remittance of Baht 8.2 billion for 1997 which is expected to be paid in 1998 and the
reduction in net profit for the year, the projected self-financing ratio of 7.5% would not
be in compliance with the covenanted 25%. Had the remittance to Government been at
the normal level of 35%, PEA's self-financing ratio would have been 23.9%, very close
to the covenanted level. PEA's projections show that all the financial covenants would be
complied with in the subsequent years. However, the deepening economic crisis in the
region is introducing a level of uncertainty in any projection.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
28.   The implementation of the project is deemed to be satisfactory, though marginally
so. During the initial stages, project implementation was fraught with delays. During the
latter stages of the project, and caused by the financial crisis in the region, contractors'
cash flow problems coupled with the impossibility by contractors to obtain commercial
loans in many cases, also caused delay. To accommodate the implementation delays, the
loan closing date was extended twice by one year each time from March 31, 1996 to
March 31, 1998.
Completion Costs
29.   Project Costs (excluding Interest During Construction). The project appraisal
estimated a total project cost of US$184.0 million. The final cost is estimated at
US$199.3 million equivalent, about 8% higher than the appraisal estimate. Given the
under-utilization of the Bank loan (by about US$6.9 million), appreciation of the
Japanese Yen during the project life (the OECF loan is denominated in Yen) and the
expanded project scope (mainly financed by OECF loan), this slight increase would not
imply a cost overrun.
30.   Loan Disbursement.  Loan disbursement was much slower than appraisal
schedule due to delays in project implementation. A comparison of the estimated loan
disbursements at appraisal with the actual disbursements is given in Table 4. Total
disbursement amounted to US$33.1 million, with an undisbursed balance of US$6.9



-9 -
million canceled effective August 14, 1998, when the last disbursement was made and the
loan account was closed.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   The major factors affecting the project included: (i) protracted and bureaucratic
procurement process including lengthy procedures for the selection of consultants, (ii)
lengthy and cumbersome process of land acquisition, (iii) fragmented project team on the
Borrower's side, and (iv) economic crisis in the region.
32.   Procurement of Goods and Selection of Consultants. This was one of the key
contributing factors to the two-year loan extensions granted. There were lengthy delays
between bid closing date and bid evaluation and during bid evaluation. There were also
delays between receipt of Bank's no objection letter and preparation of final contract
document.
33.   There was also a considerable delay in appointing the engineering consultant
because of bankruptcy of the first selected consulting firm. On the advice and
concurrence from the Bank, the second ranked consultant was selected and awarded the
contract. In retrospect the selection of the second consultant was a good one since its
performance was deemed satisfactory.
34.   Land acquisition. Another key contributing factor to project implementation
delays was lengthy and cumbersome process of land expropriation from the Highway
Department for transmission substations and obtaining of right of ways for transmission
lines. This required mainly: (i) adjustments of the construction drawings based on last
minute information (i.e. gas pipes, water pipes, chemical pipes and other underground
infrastructure) provided by the Highway Department on mainly obstacles which were
only uncovered during actual construction; and (ii) extension of roads and provisions
from the Royal Irrigation Department which required adjustments in transmission line
right of way. It should be noted that the SAR was optimistic - with a low or negligible
risk rating - about the potential problems encountered in land acquisition. Although
indeed, all transmission lines under the project are pole-mounted, there were potential
right of way and particular land expropriation problems not contemplated in the SAR.
35.   Fragmented Project Team. This caused coordination problems during project
implementation. Delays were experienced by the lack of coordination in the purchase of
goods and the actual utilization. Some equipment (e.g., 50 MVA transformers) were
bought too early and damage occurred during storage (para. 49).
36.   Economic Crisis. At the time of project preparation two of the risk factors
associated with the current economic crisis, namely reduced sales and depreciation of the
Baht, could not be foreseen and received understandably a minimal risk rating (reduced
sales) or were not flagged in the SAR (depreciation of the Baht). To respond to the
current economic crisis in the country, PEA's very low energy sales projections (from
June 1998) call for energy sales to drop from 11.4% growth rates in FY97, to the 6-7%



- 10-
range in FY98 but rebounding to the 8-10% range by the year 2000 and thereafter.
However, current forecast takes a gloomier view of the economic crisis: the IMF has
forecast that the economy will contract by 7% in 1998 but will begin only a modest
recovery in 1999.  In addition, demand projections obtained by the Thailand
Development Research Institute (TDRI) for EGAT indicate demand reductions in 1998
and then modestly increasing by about 2.4% in 1999 and 4.4% in 2000. It is expected,
therefore, that PEA's forecasts would need to be adjusted downward accordingly.
37.   Another factor associated with the economic crisis was depreciation of the Baht
and its impact on PEA. The value of Baht has fallen from about 24 Baht/US$ in mid 1997
to about 42 Baht/US$ one year later. PEA's foreign loans are recorded in Baht using the
rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. The outstanding foreign loans
at the end of the recording period are reconverted, the unrealized exchange losses are
amortized over the term of the loan, and losses are recorded as deferred charges in the
balance sheet as deduction from equity. PEA's net income dropped by 25% in 1997
mainly due to its large foreign exchange losses. Nevertheless, it is expected that the
foreign exchange losses in 1998, although large, will have a tolerable impact on PEA's
new operations (as of November 1998, the Baht stood at 37 Baht/US$).
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.   The physical aspects of the project completed under the project are likely to be
sustainable. There is however a modest risk that the impact of the economic crisis - the
worst in Thailand in modem times - will further deteriorate PEA's demand and energy
sales growth projections. This risk is mitigated by the fact that the industrial area around
Bangkok where the project is located is expected to be the engine for economic recovery
and the project will provide the higher levels of reliability required for industry.
39.   However, despite the expected reduction in sales in the short to medium term, the
achievements and benefits of the project are deemed sustainable. The physical facilities
will be productive for many years. Although PEA is now facing financial difficulties,
normal operation of the physical facilities (transmission lines and substations) financed
under the project should not be affected, because these new facilities, equipped with
modem technologies, do not need much maintenance and in certain cases are even
maintenance free.
40.   The institutional development gains are also likely to be sustainable. For example,
the recommendations of the various reliability studies are being implemented through an
OECF-fmanced loan. The reliability of the system has steadily improved over the years.
In addition, the training and the computerized planning techniques (GIS/AM/FM)
introduced will save time and cost in map production, network data query and data
analysis. PEA trained personnel have acquired the required skills to provide more
accurate planning and in avoiding unnecessary investment and cutting costs whenever



- II -
feasible. PEA is also well underway in strengthening its technical and managerial
capabilities to eventually achieve a successful transition to the private sector.
41.   Operational Plans to ensure the sustainability of results achieved under the project
were discussed with PEA during the ICR mission. These plans are presented in Annex B.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
42.   Overall, the Bank's performance during this project was satisfactory. The
identification and preparation of the project were carried out smoothly and capitalized on
the opportunity that presented itself regarding PEA's planned introduction of a higher
voltage level (i.e. 115 kV) to meet the expected demand in the outlying areas around
Bangkok. The particular geographical areas for the project had been designated as high
growth industrial areas due in part to the Government's efforts to stimulate industrial
development outside of Bangkok, where infrastructure was, at the time of project
preparation, already heavily stressed. Government also granted tax incentives to support
industrial estates in a U-shaped area near the city which spurred the expected demand
growth and provided the underpinning for this project.
43.   No formal appraisal mission took place since the project team was able to
essentially complete the project's appraisal during pre-appraisal. This is not considered an
issue. The justification for the project is deemed appropriate. It is based on the continuing
increase in electricity demand in PEA's service territory and the need to upgrade its
system to deliver power and improve its reliability in the new areas.
44.   No significant risks were identified in the SAR. Potential delays during the
procurement stage were flagged but received only negligible or low risk rating. The SAR
states that two missions would be fielded annually for a period of four years to ensure
adequate supervision. However, except for 1996, only one yearly supervision mission
took place.
45.   Land acquisition was tagged with negligible or low risk on the basis that prior
action as regards land acquisition had been initiated already by PEA. It is clear that not all
the risk elements were identified during appraisal. More attention should have been given
to land acquisition since the problem with the Highway Department had already occurred
in the past and appropriate risk mitigation measures (such as a realistic action plan) could
have been incorporated in project design.
46.   The project expected no substantial adverse impact to the environment and this
has actually been the case. Placing the 115 kV transmission lines on concrete poles and
largely routed along roads where PEA has right-of-way mitigated the risk of
environmental impact. This in fact was a realistic expectation. In addition, the substations
associated with the project are much smaller than transmission substations and have very
low impact on land usage. Furthermore, the flexible siting of substations made it possible



- 12 -
to avoid agricultural and otherwise ecological valuable land. This was a realistic
expectation as well.
47.   During project implementation, the Bank successfally maintained good working
relations with PEA. A total of eight supervision missions were fielded during the project
implementation period (1992-1998). Most of the field supervision activities were carried
out in conjunction with the supervision of other ongoing power projects. The project was
supervised by three task managers, with no discernible negative impact on project
continuity and outcome. However,;the Bank could have been more proactive and insisted
upon setting up a fully integrated Project Team to minimize the coordination problem
encountered during project execution.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
48.   Overall, borrower (PEA) performance was satisfactory. Macroeconomic
conditions and sectoral policies were generally favorable during most part of the project
implementation period. Counterpart funds were available and audit requirements were
satisfied. Ownership was generally taken of the technical assistance, close cooperation
ensured knowledge-transfer, and ongoing utilization is now being made of the
consultants' work. Against this overall satisfactory rating, three unsatisfactory aspects of
the borrower's performance should also be noted. First, as mentioned previously, the
project suffered from delays in implementation due to lengthy and inefficient
procurement procedures and practices and problems with land acquisition. As a result, the
Bank loan was not fully utilized. Second, although compliance with covenants was
satisfactory in general, one of the financial covenants was not complied with in 1998 (see
paras. 26-27). Third, the Borrower's Project Team did not finction cohesively (para. 49).
49.   Although a Project Team was established (following the requirements in the Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5), it did not have a full-time Manager overseeing the project. This
diluted in considerable measure the effectiveness of the Project Team to properly
coordinate and manage the project. This shortcoming was largely responsible for the poor
coordination between the actual need of the equipment/materials and their procurement,
causing loss or damage of equipment during storage. A properly integrated Project Team
could have also been more proactive in containing some of the delays during bid
evaluation and in making sure that the land acquisition problems were tackled before they
actually occurred.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.   The outcome of the project is satisfactory. When completed, the project is
expected to meet or surpass its physical objectives. The institutional objectives will also
be met. The benefits from the project are likely to be sustainable. There is however, a
medium to high risk that the economic crisis in the region will persist longer than



- 13 -
expected in which case the very low demand growth scenarios will no longer be valid.
The project is nevertheless expected to contribute to economic recovery once the physical
facilities are all in plact. and energized.
- 51. The EIRR for the project has been re-estimated at 13%, indicating a reasonable
economic viability of the Bank financed project.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
52.   Those physical components which have been completed and energized are already
meeting expected demand. Unfortunately, the crisis in Thailand has plunged its economy
into a severe recession since mid-1997, which threatens the gains of high growth rates
over the past decade. The Baht dropped to an all-time low in early 1998. Even though the
IMF-initiated program of August 1997 improved public confidence, the full effects of the
crisis in the region have yet to unfold with the result that the situation in Thailand
continues to be uncertain.
53.   PEA has a very capable O&M staff to efficiently and appropriately operate and
maintain its network. Comprehensive and well-documented operation and maintenance
procedures are in place to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the new facilities.
54.   Since the project is not yet completed but the Bank loan is closed, PEA will be
financing from its own revenue the balance of works under the Bank-financed
components. To this effect PEA's Board of Directors has approved in principle in June
1998 the allocation of sufficient amounts as a priority item in PEA's FY99 Budget. As
PEA and the Government cannot leave this investment unfinished, it is expected that the
budget will be made available to finish the project. Nevertheless, in view of PEA's
current financial situation, there is still a risk that the project could be further delayed due
to PEA's financial constraints caused by the regional downturn.
55.   The Bank will continue to monitor PEA's operations and performance through its
on-going lending and institutional development programs and policy dialogue with
Government/PEA. The main task ahead for the Borrower is to continue preparing project
progress reports for both the Bank- and the OECF-financed components as well as collect
monitoring indicators, which were defined for future operations, and submit to the Bank
till overall project completion (expected in July 2000). In view of PEA's difficult
financial position, there is some risk that the Bank-financed portion of the project will not
be completed by April 1999, as scheduled and committed by PEA.
56.   Nevertheless, it is expected that the project will be operated as planned: that is,
meeting the demand in the industrial areas around Bangkok. In addition, the
organizational restructuring of PEA is underway, Parliament approval is expected shortly
and PEA is well underway toward more commercialization. Plans for future operations
which include project monitoring indicators, are presented in Annex B.



- 14-
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57.   Several specific key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for
the design of future power sector projects, can be drawn from this project. These are
discussed in the following.
58.   Bureaucratic procurement processes were a leading cause of project
implementation delays: PEA's bureaucratic and politicized procurement process
resulted in a lengthy procurement cycle adding delays and unnecessary costs to projects
that it undertakes. Speedier procurement processing and more coordinated and efficient
inventory management and materials handling are key to increasing the efficiency of its
investment program.
59.   Fragmented Project Team and coordination problems: A fully integrated
project team could have mitigated many of the delays caused by insufficient coordination
during project implementation.
60.   Actions on land acquisition should be taken early on during project
preparation stage: To ensure smooth project implementation, land acquisition should be
completed before the start of project implementation, or a realistic and concrete time-
bound action plan should be developed and followed through with close monitoring from
both the Bank and the implementing agency.



- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-TH)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 16-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial         Partial        Neglg,ible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                       El               El                E
Sector Policies                      E                El                                  El
Financial Objectives                                  I]                El                El
Institutional Development             ]                                 E                 El
Physical Objectives                  E3               E                 E                 E
Poverty Reduction                    E                E                 E                  WI
Gender Issues                        E                E                 E                  WI
Other Social Objectives              El               E                 El 
Environmental Objectives               l              El                E 
Public Sector Management             El               El                E                  W
Private Sector Development           E                E                 E                  WI
Other (specify)                      El               E                 El 
B. Project Sustainabiity               Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V')                     ()                          (9)
|                            ~~~~~~~~Highly-
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
I                             ~~        ~       ~      ~~(9)  (9')                  (9')
Identification                      El                        WI                          E
Preparation Assistance              E                           I                         El
Appraisal                           E                         E3                          E
Supervision                         El                                                    E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory               Satisfactory                Deficient
(9')                     (9')                        (9')
Preparation                         E                                                     El
Implementation - Physical           E                         E                           WI
- Institutional       a                        WI                          E
Covenant Compliance                 E                         W                           E
Operation (if applicable)           El                        WI                          El
Highly                                               Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(9')            (9')             (9')                (9')
El                I               El                 El



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan No.                           Purpose                         Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. 1852-TH         Lignite Mining                                       1980         Completed
2. 2000-TH         Hydropower Development                                1981         Completed
3. 2312-TH         Rural Electrification                                 1983         Completed
4. 2407-TH         Lignite Mining                                        1984         Completed
5. 2915-TH         Power Transmission/Distribution                       1988         Completed
6. 3027-TH         Power System Development                              1989         Completed
7. 3138-TH         Power System Development                              1990         Completed
8. 3423-TH         Power System Development                             1992          Completed
Following operations
9. 3598-TH         Distribution System and Energy Efficiency             1993         Completed
10. 3798-TH        Distribution System Reinforcement                    1995        Implementing
11. 3884-TH        Hydropower Development                               1995        Implementing
12. 4067-TH        Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement  1997        Implementing
13. 4199-TH        Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement              1997        Implementing



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned   1   Date Actual/
| Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            09/12/88
Preparation                                                           10/01/90
Appraisal                                                             04/01/91
Negotiations                                                          07/22/91
Board Presentation                                                    09/24/91
Siging                                                                09/27/91
Effectiveness                                                         02/14/92
Midterm review (if applicable)                       N.A.               N.A.
Project Completion                                 03/31/95           04/30/99
Loan Closing                                       03/31/96           03/31/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate         1.0    5.0   20.0   35.0   40.0        -       -       -
Actual                    0.0    0.0    5.6   12.1   15.2   24.0   29.4    33.1
Actual as % of Estimate   0.0    0.0   28.0   34.6   38.0         -       -       -
Date of Final Disbursement August 14, 1998.
(An undisbursed balance of US$ 6.9 million was canceled.)



- 19 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Entire Project    Financing Agency        Bank Financed
Project Component                  ._.___.
SAR   Revised   IBRD       OECF    Completed         Under
/Actual                                    Construction
It5 kV T/L (ckm)         500      820      388       432         232            156
No of 115/22 kV T/S       18      26        8         18          4              4
No. of 115 kV S/S         0        8        4         4           2              2
Total Substations         18      34        12        22          6              6
Transformers (MVA)       900    2,350      700       1,650       350            350
Note: Data as of August 1998.
TIL - transmission line; T/S - transformer substation; S/S - switching substatipn.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators for project operations were included in SAR/President's Report.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                            Impact of
Study           Appraisal/Redefined         Status                 Study
1. Study for      To review PEA's system       Completed  Improved ways of calculating
Reliability    reliability and losses and                SAIFI and SAIDI, enhanced
Improvement  produce a master plan that                  operational and contract
would specify for different              standards, and distribution
areas under PEA's                        system design configuration
jurisdiction the optimum                  improvements, including
level of reliability and                 looped systems, which are
losses that should be                    started to impact positively on
achieved consistent with                 system reliability.
economy and the needs of
the area.



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Item                         Local      Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign       Total
Costs        Costs                  Costs       Costs
IBRD Financed Component
Substations                                 11.5          19.4       30.9        29.4       23.2       52.6
Transmission lines                          20.3          20.6       40.9        13.1        14.6      27.7
Consultancy                                  0.1           1.1        1.2         0.1        0.5         0.6
Duties and taxes                             7.1             -        7.1         2.9           -        2.9
Subtotal                                    39.1         41.1        80.2        45.4       38.4       83.8
OECF Financed Component
Substations & transmission lines            40.4          51.8       92.2        33.3       64.2       97.6
Duties and taxes                            11.6             -       11.6         5.0           -        5.0
Subtotal                                    52.0          51.8      103.8        38.4       64.2      102.6
PEA Financed Component
Land acquisition                               -             -          -         1.6           -        1.6
Substations & transmission lines                                                 11.3          -        11.3
Subtotal                                       -             -          -        12.9          -        12.9
Total Project Cost                             91.1          92.9      184.0        96.7      102.6      199.3
Interest during construction                    6.5           9.5       16.0
Total Financing Required                       97.6         102.4      200.0
Note: Exchange rates:  Baht 30 = Si (as of 05/98), Baht 40  $1 (after 06/98)
Yen 120  $1 (as of 05/98), Yen 140 = $1 (after 06/98)
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Source                        Local      Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign       Total
Costs       Costs                   Costs      Costs
World Bank                                     40.0        40.0          -        33.1       33.1
OECF                              -         52.0        52.0        34.2       51.8       86.0
Japan Grant                          -          0.9         0.9          -         0.5        0.5
Other Borrowings                    30.2          9.5        39.7           -          -          -
Intemal Cash Generation                67.4            -        67.4        62.5       17.2       79.7
TOTAL                           97.6        102.4       200.0       96.7       102.6      199.3



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate             Re-estimate
Economic Intemal Rate of Return            17%                         13%
(ErRR)
For detailed calculations, see Annex D.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present fulfillment fulfillment         Description of covenant             Comments
type     status    date       date
Guarantee  3.01          2        CP                          Take all necessary measures to produce for  I/
PEA an SFR of at least 25%.
Loan       4.03          5        C                           PEA shall make adequate provisions for
insurance.
5.01(b)      I         C                           Have accounts and financial statements
audited each financial year.
I        C                           Fumish certified copies of financial
statements to the Bank 6 months after end
of each fiscal year.
I        C                           Employ qualified auditors.
5.02(a)      2        CP                          PEA to maintain not less than 25% SFR.    1/
5.02(b)      2         C                           PEA to review and inform the Bank whether
it will meet the covenanted SFR for the
current fiscal year and the following fiscal
year.
5.03(a)      2         C                           PEA shall not incur debt greater than 1.5    Debt to equity ratio
times capital plus surplus.           for FY97 was 0.6; and
projected for FY98 is
0.7.
2        C                           PEA shall not incur short and medium term  PEA has no short or
debt exceeding 15% of all debt.       medium term debt.
5.03(b)      I         C                           PEA to submit audited accounts, and other
financial information, including segregated
RE accounts.
5.04         10        C                           PEA shall carry out an annual review and
update of five-year investment program and
keep the Bank informed.
Schedule    10         C                           PEA shall undertake consulting studies
5                                                  according to agreed TORs, discuss the
results of the studies with the Bank and
prepare an action plan to optimize system
reliability.
1/ In compliance for the project life until 1997. However, because of the much-larger-than-normal remittance to the Govemment
due to financial crisis, the projected SFR for 1998 is only 7.5%. PEA projections show that it will comply with this covenant in
subsequent years.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2: =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                   action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= not complied with



-23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Revised           Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal           n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.      15.7   37,837
Appraisal                          n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.      15.4   39,547
Negotiation through Board approval  n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.       2.7    7,111
Supervision                       36.4    61,598    29.1   55,255      38.3   86,630
Completion                         7.8    19,838    7.8   19,838        3.9   10,379
TOTAL                             n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.      76.0  181,054



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/    Number    Days in   Specialized   Implementati    Develop-                Types of
Project Cycle       Year  of Persons    Field     Staff Skills      on           ment               Problems
Represented      Status      Objectives  __l
Through Appraisal    12/87       5          3      Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
Fin. Analyst,
Op. Officer,
Economist
04/89        2          1      Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
Fin. Analyst                                                         l
07/89        1          1      Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
03/90        1          1      Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
06/90        1          1      Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
Appraisal through   10/90        2          10     Power Eng.         n/a           n/a
Board Approval                                     Fin. Analyst
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision         02/92        2          5      Fin. Analyst        I             I       Implementation delays due to
Power Eng.                                delay in appointment of
consultants.
05/93        2          5      Power Eng.         2              1       Implementation delay by one
Fin. Analyst                              year due to delay in
appointment of consultants
and slow land acquisition for
substations.
04/94        1          2      Power Eng.         2              2       Implementation delays.
05/95        3          2      Power Eng.         S              S       Implementation delays by
Fin. Analyst                             two years due to procurement
Institutional                             delays.
Specialist
02/96        2          5      Power Eng.         S              S       Implementation delays due to
Fin. Analyst                              procurement and obtaining
________          nright of way.
09/96        2          2      Power Eng.         S              S       Implementation delays in
Fin. Analyst                              both physical component and
organization restructuring.
03/97        3          3      Power Eng.         S              S                                  l
Fin. Analyst
04/98        2          3      Power Eng.          S             U       Non-compliance with
Fin. Analyst                              financial covenant; deviation
in implementing
___________   organizational restructuring.
Completion          06/98        2          8      Power Eng.          S             U        Substantial implementation
Op. Officer                               delays; non-compliance with
l  financial covenant.
Note: Most of the above missions were conducted in combination with missions for other power projects,
therefore, the days spent in the fields were estimates.



-25 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-IND)
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX B: OPERATIONAL PLAN
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
ANNEX D: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL
RATE OF RETURN
ANNEX E: PEA'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
ANNEX F: RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT INDICES



- 26 -                            Annex A
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-TH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    This Aide-Memoire records the findings of a World Bank mission comprising Messrs.
Kurt Schenk and Yuling Zhou, who visited Thailand during June 22 through July 3, 1998, for
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Distribution System
Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH). The Aide-Memoire will be ratified by Bank management
and submitted to PEA shortly upon return of the mission to Washington.
2.    The mission would like to record its thanks to PEA staff, in particular the System
Planning Department, and other parties concerned, for the excellent preparation and assistance in
providing data and information and for its cooperation and gracious hospitality.
Activities Undertaken by the Mission
3.    The mission reviewed with PEA the ICR process and requirements for its preparation,
and collected data and information to: (i) prepare the statistical tables in the ICR and update the
tables from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); (ii) assess the degree of achievement of project
objectives; (iii) establish the prospects for the project sustainability; (iv) assess Bank and
Borrower performance; (v) draw conclusions on lessons learned; and (vi) prepare a plan. for the
project's future operation. The mission also visited two completed substations financed by the
project: (a) 115 kV Bang-Pa In 2 switching substation, and (b) 115/22 kV Ongkharak transforner
(2x50 MVA) substation.
4.    In addition, the mission provided advice and support to PEA for preparing its own
contribution to the ICR. The mission advised that PEA's Evaluation Report should include: (i) an
assessment of the project's objectives, design, implementation, and operational experience; (ii) an
evaluation of PEA's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the project
with specific emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and (iii) an
evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of the
project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between PEA and the Bank, with special
emphasis on lessons learned.
Project Objectives
5.    The objectives of the project were threefold: (i) to help meet the growth in power demand
in one of the most rapidly industrializing areas of Thailand at optimal reliability and cost; (ii) to
improve PEA's technical and management capabilities to face the challenges of rapid growth in
its service area; and (iii) to ensure through the monitoring of appropriate financial covenants that
PEA's financial strength remains adequate to support its growth. In the mission's opinion, due to
substantial implementation delays, deviations in organizational restructuring from the earlier
agreements, and PEA's current financial difficulties resulting from the economic crisis (as
discussed below), the objectives of the project have only been partially achieved.



- 27 -                             Annex A
Review of Physical Components
6.    The Bank-financed component is now 93% complete and expected to be fully completed
in April 1999, about 4 years behind the schedule as stated in the SAR. The substantial delays are
mainly caused by: bureaucratic procurement procedures; change of the engineering consulting
firm due to bankruptcy of the first ranked firm; delays with land acquisition and right of way;
problems of local contractors (e.g., cash flow problem). As a result of delays, the Bank loan
closing date (March 31, 1996) had to be extended twice by a total of two years. The OECF-
financed component, expanded to include additional transmission lines and substations, is now
86 % complete and is expected to be fully completed by July 2000. OECF has extended the
closing date of its loan by 2 and a half years.
7.    At present, 6 out of 12 Bank-financed substations and 4 out of 22 OECF-financed
substations have been fully energized. In addition, 3 Bank-financed and 5 OECF-financed
substations have been temporarily energized. The overall progress of the project is summarized in
the table below.
Project Component    Entire Project    Financing Agency     Bank Financed
SAR   Revised/   IBRD    OECF    Completed        Under
Actual                                 Construction
115 kV T/L (ckm)     500      820      388      432        232           156
No of 115/22 kV T/S   18      26         8       18         4            4
No. of ll5 kV S/S     0        8        4         4          2           2
Total Substations     18      34        12       22          6            6
Transformers (MVA)    900    2,350     700      1,650       350          350
8.    As shown in the table above, the physical targets in the SAR will be achieved or
surpassed. The completed facilities are already in normal operation and meeting the demand.
Since project inception (FY91), energy sales have increased from 20,812 GWh to 50,335 GWh at
present, corresponding to an annual average sales growth rate of 13.4%. During the same period,
the number of customers has increased by 51% to reach 10.6 million. Energy losses have been
reduced from 7.1% to 5.2%. Improvements of system reliability was initiated under the project
through consulting studies. Recommendations of the studies are being implemented, in particular
through an OECF-financed 5-year investment program. The system reliability is therefore
expected to improve.
9.    The mission discussed with PEA regarding the completion of the Bank-financed
component and PEA assured the mission that it will complete the balance of works using its own
financing. In fact, PEA's Board of Directors has approved in principle on June 24, 1998 as a
priority item in PEA's FY99 Budget, the needed funds to finance the balance of works. The
mission advised that, though the Bank loan is now closed, progress of the project will continue to
be monitored by the Bank through its sector dialogue and supervision of on-going projects.
Review of TA Components
10.   Project Engineering and Institutional Development Start of this TA was delayed due to
bankruptcy of the first selected bidder. Although the project engineering and training were
carried out satisfactorily, the implementation of PEA organizational restructuring and
corporatization initiated under this project and carried out in subsequent Bank financed projects



- 28 -                            Annex A
may not be fully satisfactory. It has suffered delays and the new plan as approved by PEA Board
in February 1998 and endorsed by Ministry of Interior, is not fully in conformance to the
previous agreements between the Bank and PEA. As identified by the Bank supervision mission
in April 1998, the principal deviations include: (a) the four PEA regional units are no longer
envisaged for formation initially as profit centers and subsequently as subsidiary companies.
Instead it is proposed that only the service function of billing and collection will be formed as
regional subsidiary companies, with the distribution operations being retained within PEA; and
(b) delays in developing and implementing a cost accounting system in the core distribution and
supply business.
11.   System Reliability Improvement. Three separate studies were undertaken, all feeding
into one other, namely: (i) Reliability Study of PEA System (by ESB International) finalized in
August 1995; (ii) Study on System Loss Reduction and Increase in System Reliability (by
SwedPower) finalized in June 1996, and (iii) Feasibility Study of 'Distribution System Reliability
Improvement Project (by Chulalongkorn University) finalized in May 1996. As system losses
were deemed to be already low (at 5% level), the above studies concentrated mainly on
improving system reliability. Out of the above studies came improved ways of calculating SAIFI
and SAIDI, enhanced operational and control standards, and distribution system design
configuration improvements, including looped systems, which are starting to impact on system
reliability. PEA has adopted the recommendations of these studies. In particular, the
recommendations of the Feasibility Study are being implemented through a five-year project on
Distribution System Reliability Improvement financed by an OECF loan.
Review of PEA's Financial Performance
12.   PEA has recorded satisfactory financial results during the project life. From 1991 to
1997, PEA's energy sales have increased by an average 15% annually, and its net operating
income has increased by an average 13% annually. PEA's energy sales increased by 17% from
Baht 75.4 billion in 1996 to Baht 88.0 billion in 1997. The average sales price in 1997 was Baht
1.87/kWh (including the Energy Adjustment Charge of about Baht 0.3/kWh) compared to Baht
1.78/kWh in 1996, while the average purchase price was Baht. 1.29/kWh compared to Baht
1.20/kWh in 1996. As a result, PEA's net operating income increased by 14% in 1997 from Baht
10.7 billion in 1996 to Baht 12.1 billion in 1997. However, due to substantial increase in foreign
exchange losses (from Baht 0.4 billion in 1996 to Baht 4.6 billion in 1997), its net income
dropped by 25% from Baht 12 billion in 1996 to Baht 9.1 billion in 1997.
13.   PEA prepared its projected financial statements based on a very low case scenario of
annual sales growth rates of 6.7%, 8.9% and 10.3% for 1998, 1999 and 2000 respectively. Due
to the current difficult economic situation, PEA has been required to make a remittance of Baht
3.6 billion to the Government in addition to its regular remittance of 35% of net income (Baht 4.6
billion). Total remittance to the Government in 1998 would therefore amount to Baht 8.2 billion.,
or about 90% of its 1997 net income. PEA's net income for 1998 is projected to be Baht 8.5
billion, about 7% drop from the level in 1997.
14.   PEA has been in compliance with all the Bank's financial covenants. For 1997, PEA's
self-financing ratio of 26% met the required 25%; the debt equity ratio of 0.6 satisfied the
maximum limit of 1.5 times; PEA continued to have no short and medium term debt satisfying
the requirement of no more than 15% of total outstanding debt.



- 29 -                            Annex A
15.   For 1998, PEA projected that it would comply with the debt equity ratio (0.7 times) and
the short and medium term debt limit (0%). However, because of the huge remittance of Baht 8.2
billion for 1997 which is expected to be paid in 1998 and the reduction in net profit for the year,
the projected self-financing ratio of 7.5% would not be in compliance with the covenanted 25%.
Had the remittance to Government been at the normal level of 35%, PEA's self-financing ratio
would have been 23.9%, very close to the covenanted level. PEA's projections show that all the
financial covenants would be complied with in the subsequent years.
Recalculation of Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
16.   An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 17% was projected at the time of project appraisal
on the basis of the incremental economic costs and benefits associated with the Bank-financed
project component. Such an ERR is being recalculated in the same methodology based on the
current projections.
Project Sustainability and Operational Plan
17.   To respond to the financial crisis and economic downturn, PEA has projected its sales
growth based on a very low case scenario, according to which the expected sales for FY98,
FY99 and FY2000 are expected to drop from 11.4% in FY97 to 6.7%, 8.9% and 10.3%,
respectively.
18.   Even with the expected reduction in sales in the next 2-3 years, the prospects for project
sustainability are still good. Expected load forecasts (very low load growth scenario) assumes
load growth rates returning to the 9-10% range after the year 2000, when the project will be fully
completed. The physical investments will be productive for many years. The improvements in
technical and management capabilities are already being felt in the system. PEA has prepared a
Five-Year (1997-2001) Corporate Strategic Plan and an Action Plan for FY 98 centered on
reliability, rural electrification expansion, managerial and operational efficiency, human resource
development, and providing excellent customer services.
19.   An Operational Plan to ensure sustainability of the outcomes achieved under the project
was discussed with PEA during the mission. Central to the operational plan is PEA's commitment
to (i) finalize construction of unfinished facilities; (ii) properly maintain the new facilities; and
(iii) monitor performance of the system. The mission reviewed PEA's maintenance procedures
and found them satisfactory. They include regular inspections for preventive maintenance, which
are already being carried out for those components which have been completed and energized.
20.   It was agreed that PEA will continue to prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports till the overall project completion in July 2000. In addition, PEA has agreed to
systematically monitor its performance against targets on an annual basis (refer to Annex).
Disbursement
21.   The loan has disbursed US$ 32.7 million as of May 1998 corresponding to 82 % of the
total of the Bank loan. Although the loan was extended twice for two years, PEA is still unable
to fully utilize the loan proceeds. It is expected that an undisbursed amount of about US$ 5
million will have to be canceled.



- 30 -                              Annex A
Agreements Reached and Next Steps
22.  It was agreed that:
(a) PEA's own evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1998.
(b) Since the project is not yet completed and as required in the SAR ( para. 3.7 of
SAR), PEA will continue to prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly reports. PEA
will also submit to the Bank quarterly reports for the OECF component.
23.   The mission advised PEA that a draft final ICR is expected to be sent to PEA for
comments by October 15, 1998. PEA will forward its comments, if any, to the Bank by no later
than November 15, 1998. The Draft ICR will also be sent to OECF, the co- financier, for
comments. The ICR will be finalized and printed by December 1998.
Sunthom Tanthavorn                               Kurt
Governor                                /  Power Specialist
Provincial Electricity Authority                       World Bank
Bangkok, Thailand



-31 -                           Annex B
ANNEX B
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Transmission network
1.    As of loan closing on March 31, 1998, the Bank-financed portion for the 115kV
transmission lines and substations was 93% complete and expected to be completed by
April 1999. The OECF-financed portion was 86% complete and expected to be
completed by July 2000. PEA has committed budgetary resources from its revenue to
complete the Bank-financed portion. OEFC has extended its loan up to July 2000.
2.    PEA has agreed to continue to prepare Quarterly Reports, for both the Bank- and
OECF financed components, and submit to the Bank. In addition, PEA has agreed to
collect performance indicators as described in Table 1 and compare these with the ICR
agreed targets as described in Table 2, and submit to the Bank along with its quarterly
reports. It is understood that PEA has established these targets before the economic crisis
worsened. They should be reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if deemed
appropriate.
Operations and Maintenance
3.    PEA has in place comprehensively documented operation and maintenance
procedures for the physical infrastructure in the power network. PEA has agreed to
continue with the training of its O&M personnel so that they can continue to effectively
operate and maintain the transmission network.
Utilization of Investments
4.    To monitor the utilization of the project substations, PEA has agreed to collect
and submit to the Bank together with the Quarterly Reports, the information on
substations loadings as outlined in Table 3.
Organizational Restructuring and Corporate Plans
5.    PEA is committed to continue with the commercialization, corporatization and
private participation initiatives of the project and taken up in subsequent projects (Loan
4067-TH and Loan 4199-TH). PEA needs to amend the PEA Act to implement the new
organizational structure. PEA will continue to prepare Five-Year Corporate Plans,
making customer service, operational excellence and environmental consciousness, part
of PEA's core values. PEA will continue to prepare strategic Action Plans on an annual
basis, setting out PEA's strategy and performance targets to make PEA more
commercially oriented in the future.



- 32 -                              Annex B
Table 1. Performance monitoring indicators that were agreed during ICR Mission
Improvement in Distribution    1. System Average          Evaluate annually against
Reliability                  Interruption Frequency Index  target.
(SAIFI)
2. System Average
Interruption Duration Index
(SAIDI)
Improvement in Distribution    System losses (%)          Evaluate annually against
Efficiency                                               target.
Financial                    Rate of Retum on re-valued    Evaluate annually against
assets (ROR)                target.
Self-Financing Ratio (SFR)
Manpower Utilization         Average Energy Sales per     Evaluate annually against
Employee (GWh)              target.
Table 2. Agreed Targets for Monitoring PEA's performance
Performance Indicator      Actual                       Target
1997       1998       1999        2000       2001
SAIFI
Overall                     20.2        19.5        18.9       18.2        17.5
Industrial estate             5.5        5.2         4.9        4.7         4.4
Urban                        14.7       14.2        13.7       13.2        12.7
Rural                       24.3        22.8        21.3       19.8        18.3
SAIDI                                                     =
Overall                   1941        1718       1496        1273       1050
Industrial estate          516         420         324        228         132
Urban                      1132       1008         884        659        635
Rural                     2076        1845        1612       1384       1153
System Losses (%) **            5.4         5.2        5.1         5.0        4.9
ROR(%)                           1.6        6.7         6.0        5.5        5.1
SFR (%)                        25.8         7.5       34.7        27.8       27.3
Average            Energy   1543         1654       1808        1997       2209
Sales/Employee (MWh)/Custom
SAIFI: Outage/Customer/Year
SAIDTl Minutes/CustomerlYear
**The loss targets, not yet reflecting the impact of the economic crisis, are being reviewed.



- 33 -                                Annex B
Table 3: Loading of Project Substations
Utilization Factor %
1997          1998          1999           2000          2001
Substation   Capacity   Load    %    Load    %    Load    %    Load    %    Load    %
(34)      (MVA)   (MW)  Util.  (MW)  Util.  (MW)  Util.  (MW)  Util.  (MW)  Util.
4.                               =_._=_=_
2
4
7    I      __-_ __   __   __  ___
9                             =_____        ===                      __                 ____
10                            =_____         __  _  _____                               __   _
12:=_                                                             ___=__
13 ___=_=__
15
16l __.___ ___
17
19
20
23                                                                                        _
24           =____                                                          =             =__
29
30__                              _   __ _ _
31__                      _ _
322_ _ _ _ _
233_                                                 _ _ __ _                _ _ _ _ _ _
34           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 34 -                          Annex C
ANNEX C
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADING PROJECT
(LOAN 3404-TH)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
A. Introduction
This report was prepared as a part of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of the Distribution System Upgrading Project under the World Bank Loan
No.3404-TH prepared by the Bank Mission who visited Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA) during June 22 through July 3, 1998.
B. Project Objectives
The main objectives of the Project are:
(1) To meet increasing electricity requirements, especially of middle and large
scale industries.
(2) To increase system efficiency and reliability.
(3) To solve and minimize problems of operations, maintenance and system
losses.
The Project will consist of the following major components:
Project Component           Entire Project       Financed by
Original   Revised    IBRD     Other
- 115 kV Transmission Line (cct-  500       820        388      432
km.)                                                 _ _
-Substation (each)                 18         34        12        22
-Transformer (MVA)                 900      2,350       700     1,650
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
As of 31 May 1998, the 477.62 cct.-km. of transmission lines and 12 substations
associated with power transformer 850 MVA were accomplished as follows:
C.1 TRANSMISSION LINES
Lines                          Distance (Km)    Commission
1) Laem Chabang 1 - Laem Chabang 2            5.57          Jul. 1997
2) Mab Kha - Ban Phe                         41.00          Sep. 1996
3) Ban Tha-it - Klong Khwang                 10.60         Mar. 1996
4) Ban Tha-it - Phanat Nikhom                25.32          Sep. 1996
5) Khlong Mai - Ban Tha-it                   13.58         Sep. 1996
6) Khlong Mai - Bang Na Intersection          7.88         Nov. 1996



-35-                           Annex C
Lines                         Distance (Km)    Commission
7) Khlong Thang Luang - Nakhon Pathom       16.24        Sep. 1997
8) Tha Lan 3 - Huai Bong                    18.71        Oct. 1996
9) Huai Bong - Phatthana Nikhom             33.43         Oct. 1996
10) Huai Pa Wai - Khao Wong                  4.53         Oct. 1996
11) Bang Khan - Ong Kharak                   45.23        Apr. 1997
12) Bang Pa in 2 - Wang Noi                  25.34        Feb. 1997
13) Ratcha Buri 2 - Paktho                   21.16        Aug. 1997
14) Ratcha Buri 2 - Photharam                24.30        Aug. 1997
15) Photharam- Dam Noen Saduak               25.19        Sep. 1997
16) Photharam - Nakhon Pathom                33.54        Jun. 1997
17) Huasamrong - Phanom Sarakham -Nonsi      98.00         Jul. 1996
18) Ratcha Buri 2 - Photharam                28.00        Aug. 1997
Total                      477.62
C.2 SUBSTATION
Substation               Capacity(M VA)   Commission
1) Phanat Nikhom                             2x50         Sep. 1996
2) Phanom Sarakham                           2x50          Jul. 1996
3) Klong Khwang                              2x50         Mar. 1996
4) Ban-phe                                   2x50          Sep. 1996
5) Samut Sakhon 4                            2x50          Jul. 1998
6) Prachinburi 2                              s/w          Jul. 1998
7) Phattana Nikhom                           1x50          Oct. 1996
8) Thalan 3                                   s/w         Mar. 1996
9) Tan Dieo                                  2x50          Feb. 1998
10) Bang-Pa-in 2                               s/w         Feb. 1996
11) Ong Kharak                                2x50          Jul. 1998
12) Nonsi                                     2x50          Jul. 1998
Total                        850
The partly-completed construction works can serve the demand for electricity of
additionally 461.9 MW. At this level, it can be concluded that the Project objectives
have been satisfactory achieved.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Originally, PEA planned to accomplish the construction of 18 substations under
the TSD.1.P within the year 1996. However, during those years the country's economy
had been rapidly growing, the demand for electricity consumption had followingly
increased much higher than our estimation. PEA thus decided to revise the original
plan by adding 16 more substations to the plan to be totally 34 substations. Due to the
prevailing economic situation at that time, the price of land arose significantly.



- 36 -                          Annex C
Therefore, the acquisition of land had to be considered carefully. In addition, various
agencies had requested to use the areas along the highway to construct infrastructural
system and this had encouraged the Department of Highway to issue new regulations
to properly allocate their areas to serve the using purpose of those agencies.
In addition, since the middle of the year 1997, the Government issued the policy
on floatation of Baht currency. As a result of this announcement , the contractors had
severely effected by the exchange rate system and followingly encountered liquidity
problem. This has caused them to be unable to accomplish the construction work
within the schedule as specified in the Contract.
E. Project Sustainability
For substations that have already been in operation, PEA has systematically set up
the operational and maintaining plan in order to supply efficient and reliable services
to customers throughout the servicing duration. This can be concluded that the Project
sustainability appears to be well acceptable.
For substations that are still under construction, as the disbursement period of
IBRD Loan has already expired, PEA has a plan to provide PEA's own revenues or
domestic loan to implement the remaining construction works until the whole number
of substations have already been accomplished and capable to supply electricity
service to meet the growth of demand in accordance with the target set forth for the
Project.
F. Bank Performance
The Bank and PEA have the close relationship throughout the Loan period. The
Bank's previous performance on the management and administration of the Project
implementation has been found satisfactory. PEA gains the optimum benefits from this
loan (No.3404-TH) in such a limited duration.
G. Borrower Performance
In spite of the several difficulties arisen, PEA staff had joined forces in an effort
to overcome all the problems as well as to achieve the implementation target of the
Project. The performance of the borrower (PEA) has been found generally satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
The Project is considered to be nearly successful even a number of substations are
still under construction. The completed substations can serve the increasing demand
for electricity consumption in the Project's areas, increase the efficiency as well as
strengthen the reliability in distribution system, minimize losses and operation
expenses. Although the Project was partly commissioned, the Economic Rate of



-37 -                           Annex C
Return (ERR) was recalculated under the same methodology as conducted during the
Project Appraisal Time. It has been found that the ERR is approximately 13% against
the 17% calculated at the Project Appraisal Time as shown in Appendix 1.
I. Future Operation
According to the Load Forecast Sub-committee's anticipation which was made
during the Project implementation, they had foreseen that the demand for electricity
consumption was tending to increase substantially. To meet the up rising requirement,
PEA has considered to improve the capacity and efficiency of the substations.
For the future operation, PEA will encourage all of their employees to put their
full effort and ability towards the success of the Project. For future achievement, PEA
will define the performance target such as SAIFI, SAIDI etc.
J. Key Lesson Learned
PEA gains lots of experiences from the implementation of this Project, for
example, the construction techniques, the modern technological system that controls
the operation system of substations. These experiences will benefit in the improvement
of PEA's operational policy and framework for the future implementation.



- 38 -                                                       Annex C
Appendix 1
Thailand
Distributon System Upgrading Project
Economic Intemal rate of Retum
(All figures in Baht million unless otherwise stated)
Year    Energy Sales    Revenue                  Investment              Incr. Energy    Energy         O&M           Total          Net
(GWh)                      Project    Distribution I Substaton   (GWh)          Cost          Cost          Cost         Benefit
1992            .                       43.32  _                                     _         _            0.65         43.97         43.97
1993                                    121.15                                                              2.47        123.62 -      123.62
1994                                    75.82                                                  .            3.60         79.42         79.42
1995                          -         491.38         -                  -                                10.99        502.36 -      502.36
1996         179.24        363.88       301.95      266.06                    199.15        283.89         19.50        871.39 -      507.52
1997         445.93        905.28      844.85       398.12                    495.48        706.31         38.14      1,987.42 -    1.082.13
1998         747.05      1,516.59      488.77       436.94                    830.05      1,193.24         52.03      2,160.97        644.39
1999         892.92      1,812.72       151.58      189.36                    992.13      1,414.28         57.14      1,912.36          0.39
2000        1,006.78     2,043.86         -         121.78                   1,119.64     1,594.62         58.97      1,775.37        268.50
2001        1,078.73     2,189.93                    77.62                   1,198.59      1,708.59        60.13       1,896.34       343.59
2002        1,173.99      2,383.32                  125.13                   1,304.43      19859.46        62.01      2,946.60        336.71
2003        1,273.10     2,594.52                   130.48                   1,414.56     2,016.46         63.96      2,210.90        373.62
2004        1,381.82     2,805.23                   137.17                   1,535.35     2,188.64         66.02      2,391.83        413.40
2005        1,496.29     3,037.62                   143.19                   1,662.54     2,369.95         68.17      2,581.31        456.31
2006        1,622.17     3,293.17                   160.58                   1,802.41     2,569.34         70.58      2,800.49        492.67
2007        1,783.39     3,620.46                   202.07       21.59       1,981.54     2,824.69         73.93      3,122.28        498.18
2009        1,955.63     3,970.12                   214.12       53.96      2,172.92      3,097.50         77.95      3,443.53        526.59
2009        2,168.16     4,401.59                   264.30       75.56      2,409.07      3,434.13         83.05      3,857.04        544.54
2010        2,402.68     4,877.68                   289.73      107.94       2,669.64     3,805.57         89.02      4,292.26        585.42
2011        2,965.80     5,411.84                   323.85      107.94      2,962.00      4,222.33         95.49      4,749.62        662.22
2012        2,966.33      6,021.95                  370.69      107.94       3,295.92     4,698.33        102.67      5,279.64        742.31
2013        3,290.30     6,679.64                   394.78      107.94      3,655.89      5,211 A7        110.21      5,824.41        855.23
2014        3,637.27      7,384.02                  421.54      129.53       4,041.41     5,761 .03       118.48      6,430.58        953.44
2015        3,994.53      8,109.30                  447.64       97.14      4,438.37      6,326.90        126.65      6,998.33       1,110.97
2019        3,994.53     8,109.30                      -           -        4,438.37      6,326.90        126.95      6,453.55       1,655.75
2017        3,994.53     8,109.30                                           4 438.37      6,326.90        126.65      6,453.55       1,655.75
2019        3,994.53      8,109.30                                           4,438.37     9,326.90        129.65       6,453.55      1,655.75
2019        3,994.53     8,109.30                                            4,438.37     6,326.90        126.65      6,453.55       1.655.75
2020        3,994.53      8.109.30                                           4,438.37     6,326.90        126.65       6,453.55      1,655.75
2021        3,994.53      8,109.30 -    456.78 -   2,660.79     509.48       4,438.37     6,326.90        126.65      2,926.50       5,282.80
Notes:
Energy Cost evaluaton at B1.42551kWh.                                                                       EIRR   =              13.16%
Revenie evaluated at B2.0301/Wh.
O&M Cost evaluated at11.5% of capital cost.



-.39 -
ANNEX D
Distribution System Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-TH)
Recalculation of Economnic Internal Retum of Return (EIRR)
(Baht million)
Fisical  lncr.             Physical Invesrnent    lncr.  Energy  O&M   Total    Net
Year  Sales Revenue Project Distriubtion Substation Energy   Cost  Cost  Cost   Benefit
(GWh)                                     (GUh)
1992                   43.3                                       0.6   44.0    (44.0)
1993                  121.2                                       2.5   123.6   (123.6)
1994                   75.8                                       3.6    79.4    (79.4)
1995                  491.4                                      11.0   502.4   (502.4)
1996   179.2   363.9  302.0      266.1            199.2   283.9  19.5  871.4   (507.5)
1997   445.9   905.3  844.9      398.1            495.5   706.3  38.1  1,987.4  (1,082.1)
1998   747.1  1,516.6  488.8     436.9            830.1  1,183.2  52.0  2,161.0   (644.4)
1999   892.9  1,812.7  151.6     189.4            992.1  1,414.3  57.1  1,812.4    0.4
2000  1,006.8  2,043.9           121.8           1,118.6  1,594.6  59.0  1,775.4    268.5
2001  1,078.7  2,189.9            77.6           1,198.6  1,708.6  60.1  1,846.3    343.6
2002  1,174.0  2,383.3           125.1           1,304.4  1,859.5  62.0  2,046.6    336.7
2003  1,273.1  2,584.5           130.5           1,414.6  2,016.5  64.0  2,210.9    373.6
2004  1,381.8  2,805.2           137.2           1,535.4  2,188.6  66.0  2,391.8    413.4
2005  1,496.3  3,037.6           143.2           1,662.5  2,370.0  68.2  2,581.3    456.3
2006  1,622.2  3,293.2           160.6           1,802.4  2,569.3  70.6  2,800.5    492.7
2007  1,783.4  3,620.5           202.1     21.6  1,981.5  2,824.7  73.9  3,122.3    498.2
2008  1,955.6  3,970.1           214.1     54.0  2,172.9  3,097.5  78.0  3,443.5    526.6
2009  2,168.2  4,401.6           264.3     75.6  2,409.1  3,434.1  83.1  3,857.0    544.5
2010  2,402.7  4,877.7           289.7    107.9  2,669.6  3,805.6  89.0  4,292.3    585.4
2011  2,665.8  5,411.8           323.9    107.9  2,962.0  4,222.3  95.5  4,749.6    662.2
2012  2,966.3  6,021.9           370.7    107.9  3,295.9  4,698.3  102.7  5,279.6    742.3
2013  3,290.3  6,679.6           394.8    107.9  3,655.9  5,211.5  110.2  5,824.4    855.2
2014  3,637.3  7,384.0           421.5    129.5  4,041.4  5,761.0  118.5  6,430.6    953.4
2015  3,994.5  8,109.3           447.6     97.1  4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,998.3  1,111.0
2016  3,994.5  8,109.3                           4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,453.5  1,655.7
2017  3,994.5  8,109.3                           4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,453.5  1,655.7
2018  3,994.5  8,109.3                           4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,453.5  1,655.7
2019  3,994.5  8,109.3                           4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,453.5  1,655.7
2020  3,994.5  8,109.3                           4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  6,453.5  1,655.7
2021  3,994.5  8,109.3  (456.8)  (2,660.8)   (509.5) 4,438.4  6,326.9  126.7  2,826.5  5,282.8
Notes: Energy cost (BahVkWh)      1.4255                                EIRR=   13.2%
Energy revenue (BahtlkVVh) =  2.0301
O&M Cost as % of capital cos  1.5%



- 40 -
ANNEX E
PEA'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Income Statements
(Baht Million)
Years ending September 30       1990            1991           1992            1993           1994            1995            1996             1997            1998
SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR   Actual
Energy Sales (GWh)          17,992 17,932   21,322 20,954  24,625 24,539  28,095 29,003  31,173  32,507  34,282 38,117   37,599 42,692   40,554 47,544   45,799  50,750
Saleslncrease(%)             21.0  20.1       19.0   16.9    15.0   17.1    14.0   18.2    11.0   12.1    10.0   17.3        9.0   12.0      8.0   11.4       8.0     6.7
Average Tariff (B/kWh)        1.61   1.63     1.61   1.64    1.61   1.60    1.67   1.62    1.67    1.60    1.71   1.71      1.71   1.78      1.71   1.87     1.71    2.05
Operating Revenue:
Energy Revenue            29,037 29,033   34,403 34,219  39,575 39,028  46,767 46,711  51,891  51,718  58,437 64,734   63,750 75,400   69,128 88,005   74,660 103,230
Other Operating Revenue      864  1,231      901  1,580      927  1,778     855  1,871      843  2,263      837  2,505      875  2,520      908  2,942    1,019   2,147
Total Operating Revenue    29,901 30,264   35,304 35,799  40,502 40,806  47,622 48,583  52,733  53,981  59,274 67,239   64,625 77,920   70,036 90,947   75,608 106,376
Operating Expenses:
Purchase Power             20,203 20,124   23,923 23,430  27,612 25,617  31,486 29,908  34,915  32,884  38,379 44,395   41,875 54,206   45,361  64,752   48,972  79,095
Fuel and Oil                  16     16       22     27       25     29      29     31       32     33       36     34       40     45       45     44       50      49
Operating and Maintenance  3,876  3,530    4,782  4,108   5,571  4,807   6,350  5,962   7,342   6,408   8,264  7,811    9,388  8,722   10,515  9,195   11,710  10,236
Depreciation               2,833  2,722    3,463  3,115   4,020  3,426   4,687  4,024   5,424  4,574   6,103  5,318    6,792  6,103    7,557  6,944    8,519   8,137
Remittance to Govemment      369    370      507    578      560    871     579  1,670      833  2,952     852  3,411    1,012  3,680    1,085  3,610    1,078   8,160
Bonus                               261             385             567            728             894           1,038            1,037            981            1,132
Total Operating Expenses    27,297 27,023   32,697 31,643  37,788 35,317  43,131 42,323  48,546  47,745  53,634 62,007   59,107 73,793   64,563 85,526   70,329 106,809
Operating Income            2,598  3,241    2,608  4,156   2,715  5.489   4,493  6.259   4,187   6.236   5,641  5.232    5,517  4.127    5,473   5,421    5,280   (433)
Non-Operating Income         1,002    770    1,107  1,350   1,074  1,406   1,008  1,564      978   1,632     901  2,590      926  2,985      854  2,863      885   1,624
Non-Operating Expenses
InterestCharged to Operations   1,242  1,157    1,304  1,130   1,404  1,023   1,580    961   1,820    982   2,167  1,069    2,358    982    2,559  1,077    2,803   1,481
Foreign Exchange Loss        374    415      405    481     340    547      348    385      257    521     486    670       267    374      270  4,583      247   2,871
Other                         78     74       80    100       81    132      82    226       84    162      86    137        87    260       89    267       91    225
Total Non-Operating Expenses  1,695  1,646    1,788  1,711   1,825  1,702   2,010  1,572   2,161   1,665   2,738  1,876    2,712  1,616    2,918  5,927    3,140   4,577
Net Income (Loss)           1,905  2.365    1,927  3.795   1,964  5.193   3,491  6.251   3,005   6.203   3,803  5.946    3,750  5,496    3,408  2.358    3,023
(3,386)
Average Rate Base          28,041  27,316   35,487 30,022  45,410 33,522  55,077 37,821  64,216  41,919  72,135 47,461   78,611  53,596   86,227  2,358   96,229  69,604
Rate of Return (%)            8.5   11.3      7.1   13.0      5.9   14.2     7.4   13.4      6.5   14.2      7.4   11.2      6.9    8.7      6.4    1.6      5.5     6.7
Operating Ratio (%)            91     89       93     88      93      87      91     87       92     88      90      92       91     95       92     94       93     100



-41 -
ANNEX E
PEA'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht Million)
Years ending September 30                 1990             1991             1992            1993             1994            1995            1996             1997              1998
SAR   Actual   SAR   Actual   SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR   Actual    SAR  Projected
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Intemal Sources:
Operating Income                        3,147  3,522    3,231  4,925     3,367  6,216     5,071  7,212    4,824  7,185    5,970  7,015    6,089  6,478    5,968   3,435    5,828   (1,905)
Add: Depreciation                      2,833 2,722     3,463 3,115      4,020 3,426      4,687  4,024    5,424 4,574     6,103 5,318    6,792  6,103    7,557   6,944    8,519      8,137
Other Non-Cash items                      18    58        17   (40)      (50)   (78)     (119)  (250)   (137)  (317)   (133)  (461)   (124)  (686)   (115)   3,267    (103)    1,460
TotallnternalSources                  5,998  6,302    6,710  8,000     7,337  9,564     9,639 10,986   10,111 11,442   11,940 11,872   12,757 11,895   13,410  13,646   14,243    7,692
Customer's Deposit                              323              343              345              356            421             541             630               644                664
Government Contributions                 822   713       1,292   591       300   870        300   179      300   579         -   301          -      -        -       -        -         -
Grants andConsumer Contributions         639  1,169         3  2,006         3  2,293         4  2,213       4  2,466        4  3,277        4   2,841       4    3,433        5    3,149
Borrowings                              1,667  1,192    3,966  1,234     6,913  1,305     8,763  1,137    9,405  1,642    7,377  3,182    4,535  4,794    6,975   4,345    9,675     5,209
Redemption of Bonds and Notes                      -               -            1,336              638               -           1,156               -                -              1,102
Change in Other Assets, Liabilities (Net)  (600)    42   (644)    84      753    389       254    670    (245)   310       731      5      (68)  (798)     (68)   1,474     (86)    1,559
Total Sources of Funds                8,525  9,741    11,327 12,257    15,306 16,102    18,960 16,179   19,575 16,866   20,051 20,334   17,228 19,362   20,321  23,541   23,837   19,375
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                      7,507  4,906    11,702  6,165    12,104  7,934    11,230  8,089   12,032  9,305    9,923 12,044    8,903 13,685   12,873  21,976   15,195   23,641
Debt Service
Interest                               1,242  1,157     1,304  1,130    1,404  1,023     1,580   961    1,820   982    2,167  1,069    2,358    982    2,559   1,077    2,803       1,481
Principal                              1,378  1,378     1,436  1,443    3,639  2,681     4,144  1,852    4,066  1,217    5,988  2,464    4,402  1,364    5,354   1,460    5,386    2,050
Total Debt Services                   2,620  2,535    2,740  2,573     5,043  3,704     5,724  2,813    5,886  2,199    8,155  3,533    6,761  2,346    7,913   2,537    8,189     3,531
Sinking Fund of Bond & Notes                    590              697            595.0              423            325             265              80             1,185                 86
Increase inNon-Cash Working Capital     (735)  (61)   (1,843)  1,331     (752)  (773)       958  3,423    1,395   899    1,205  931.0    1,048  2,065    (306)   4,601        24     3,294
Increase inCash                         (867) 1,771    (1,271)  1,491   (1,089)  4,642      999  1,431     262  4,138      769 3561.0      517  1,186    (160) (6,758)       429  (11,177)
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital  (1,602)  2,300   (3,114)  3.519   (1,841)  4,464   (1,957)  5,277    1,657  5,362    1,974  4,757    1,565  3,331    (465)   (972)   453   (7,797)
Total Application of Funds            8,525 9,741    11,328 12,257    15,306 16,102    18,960 16,179   19,575 16,866   20,051 20,334   17,228 19,362   20,321  23,541   23,837   19,375
Debt Service Coverage                     2.3   2.0        2.4   2.4        1.5   3.2       1.7   4.2       1.7   4.5       1.5   4.5       1.9    4.9      1.7     3.7       1.7      3.1
Three Years Average Investment          7,507  5,079    10,355  6,335    11,695  7,396    11,805  8,443   11,078  9,813   10,286 11,678   10,566 15,902   12,324  19,767   14,860   22,062
Self-Financing Ratio (%)                  55   63.8        56   53.7        26   99.7        25   58.8      26   81.7       25   71.1       47   46.8       47    25.8        41       7.5



- 42 -
ANNEX E
PEA'S KEY FINANCILAL INDICATORS
Balance Sheet
(Baht Mllion)
Years ending September 30                     1990                 1991                 1992                1993                 1994                  1995                 1996                 1997                  1998
SAR     Actual       SAR     Actual       SAR     Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual       SAR     Actual       SAR      Actual      SAR      Actual
ASSETS
Fixed Assets:
Plant in Service                         58,072    58,376     71,323    67,482     85,951    76,723    100,603    88,026   115,871    99,372     129,671   116,685    143,607   132,327    161,766   153,875    183,166   176,385
Less: Accumulated Depreciation         (20,023)  (21,418)    (23,594)  (25,710)   (28,205)  (29,100)   (33,689)  (34,034)   (39,988)  (39,561)    (47,047)  (46,600)    (54,924)  (54,764)    (64,065)  (64,168)   (74,600)  (74,626)
Net Operating Plant                      36,049    36,958     47,729   41,772      57,746   47,623     64,914    53,992     75,874    59,812     82,604   70,085       63,602    77,564     97,701    89,707    108,565   101,758
Work in Progress                          3,075    3,390       3,347    4,110       3,408    2,973      3,221     2,616      3,658     3,483      3,945     3,058      3,502     6,811       3,510    13,738      3,376    21,963
Total Fixed Assets                      41,124    40,348     51,077   45,8S2      41,155    50,596    70,135    56,608     79,532    63,295     86,509   73,144       92,185    84,375    101,211   103,446    111,942   123,721
Current Assets
Cash                                      3,021    5,659       1,750    7,150        641    11,792      1,660    13,223      1,922    17,361      2,690   20,922       3,207    22,108       3,048    15,349      3,477     4,173
Inventories                               3,414    6,000       3,711    6,804       4,196    7,028      4,518     9,365      4,729     8,247      4,528     9,096      4,655    12,414       3,949    16,403      3,805    14,834
Receivable                                2,705    2,440       3,205    2,534       3,686    2,980      4,356     4,665      4,834     5,315      5,443     6,637       5,928    7,835       6,439     9,355      6,955    12,440
Other                                      403       548        423       688                1,141        467     1,348        490     2,203        515    2,662         540     4,378         567     5,755        596     5,656
Total Current Assets                      9,543    14,647      9,089    17,176      8,988    22,941    11,001    28,601     11,975    33,126     13,176   39,317       14,341    46,735     14,004    46,862     14,832    37,103
OtherAssets                                1,210    1,214       1,858     1,911      1,109    1,178        859      922       1,108     1,303        382      430         454       603         928     3,838        621     2,598
Deferred Foreign Exchange                  4,075    4,545       3,686    4,330       3,366    5,196      3,119    5,700       2,893    6,097       2,666    5,671       2,437    3,988        2,208    5,774       1,976     5279
TOTAL ASSETS                  55,952    60,754     65,710    69,299     74,619    79,911    85,114   91,831      95,507   103,821    102,773   118,562     109,417   135,701    117,951   159,920    129,370   168,701
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity:
Paid-ln Capital                           2,479    2,370       3,771    2,961       4,071    3,831      4,371     4,010      4,671     4,589      4,671     4,890      4,671     4,890       4,671     4,890      4,671     4,890
Retailed Earnings                         6,801    5,909       9,728     9704      10,692    14,897    14,183    21,148     17,188    27,351     20,991    33,297     24,721    38,792      28,129    41,150     31,154    37764
Grants and Consumer Contributions         7,790      416       7,719      481       7,647      534      7,576      564       7,505      645       7,436      794       7,370       972       7,310     1,114      7,299     1125
Revaluation Surplus                       7,603    10,257      9,019    12,198     10,718    12,363    12,814    13,837     15,314    15,305      18,225    17,614    21,467    20,298      24,599   23,245      28,675    26,787
Total Equity                             24,673    18,952     29,238    25,344     33,129    31,625    38,945    39,559     44,678    47,890     51,323    56,595     58,229    64,952      65,009   70,399      71,768   70,566
Long-Terin Debt                           22,937    23,057     25,467    23,168     28,740    23,581    33,350   24,442      38,698    26,114     40,087    26,916     40,220    28,390      41,841    41,152     46,130    47,939
Les: Current Matunties                    1,436    1,443       2,659    2,683       4,144    1,852      4,066     1,217      5,988     2,464      4,402     1,363      5.354     1,426       5,386     2,009      5.625     2154
Long-Term Debt (Net)                     21,500    21,614     22,828    20,485     24,596    21,729    29,293    23,225     32,710    23,650     35,685    25,553     34,846    26964       36,454    39143      40,504    45,785
Consumer Deposits                          2,526    2,550       2,831    2,893      3,142     3,238      3,356     3,594     3,580      4,015      3,813     4,556      4,055     5,186      4,309      5,830     4,572      6,494
Other Liabilities                            76        15         79        19         83        20         86       37          91       67          96       99         100        89         105       51         III       52
Consumer Contribution (Rev.)                        8,347               10,337               12,013               13,959               16,007               18,968               21,489                24,609               27,648
Current Liabilities:
AccoUnt Payable                           2,215    2,688       2,622    2,085       3,026    3,720      5,450     3,052      3,826     3,555      4,206     4,442      4,589     5,143       4,971     6,505      5,367     7,148
Current Maturitie                         1,436    1,443       2,639    2,683       4,144    1,852      4,066     1,217      5,988     2,464      4,402     1,363      5,354     1,426       5,386    2,009       5,625     2154
Other                                     3,526    5,145       5,474    5,453       6,499    5,714      5,916     7,188      4,633     6,173      3,248     6,986      2,223    10,452       1,715    11,374      1,431     8854
Total Current Liabilities                 7,177    9,276      13,566    10,221     16,811    11,286    16,788    11,457     18,027    12,192     15,669   12,791      16,221    17,021      16,381    19,888     16,995    18,156
TOTAL EQIJITY AND LIABILITIES          55,952    60,754     65,710    69,299     74,619    79,911    85,113    91,831     95,507   103,821    102,773   118,562     109,417   135,701    117,951   159,920    129,370   168,701
Debt as %4 of Total Capitalization          48.0     54.9        47.0     47.8        46 0     42.7       46.0      38.2       46.0      35.3       44.0      32.2       41.0      30.4        39.0      36.9       39.0     40.5
Long-Term Debt as 0 of Total Capitalization  47.0    53.3        44.0     447         43.0     40.7       430       37.0       42.0      33.1       41.0      31.1       37.0      29.3        36.0     35.7        36.0     39.4
Current Ratio                                1.0      1.6         0.7      1.7         0.5      2.0        0.7       2.5        0.7      2.7         0.8       3 1        0.9       2.7         0.9      2.4         0.9     .2.0



- 43 -
ANNEX F
RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT INDICES
New Investments In Four Substations
Before Energizing             After Energizing
Substation          (Oct 1995 - Apr 1996)        (Oct 1996 - Apr 1997)
SAIFI         SAIDI          SAIFI          SAIDI
Ban Phe                   16.9          613.7          10.9          349.2
Ongkharak                 2.7           178.3          0.22           23.4
Phanom Sarakham          24.5          3113.9          10.3          393.1
Chachoengsao             22.3          2337.1          13.1          632.6
Projected System-Wide Reliability Improvements
Reliability Index        Actual                        Target
1997       1998        1999        2000        2001
SAIFI
Overall                      20.2         19.5        18.9       18.2        17.5
Industrial estate              5.5         5.2         4.9         4.7        4.4
Urban                         14.7        14.2        13.7        13.2       12.7
Rural                         24.3        22.8        21.3        19.8       18.3
SAIDI
Overall                    1941         1718       1496        1273        1050
Industrial estate            516         420        324         228         132
Urban                      1132         1008        884         659         635
Rural                      2076         1845       1612        1384        1153



IBRD 22868
) oc      '                   LOPBURI
NAKHON
d -- - -    X             RATCHASIMA
NCHANA
BURI
PRACHUAP  /                       Proie~~~PRA- Ct ro                    
KH1R KHNh. co ,l.oc*s 14
t .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ordr. srcr or thsI o
w  k    ts  <F. 4  >  !  THONBURI    &         to  4*' 'e~~~~~~~~~~~~door.rpi o th.poro#Th
1 4
X ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ OOX  RI  . ,.-   3
,,.,,X,,:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r I  SS~ 'f Jo -.,.o
4"  R:    _                         
THOILNBUR-                    L         y
MEiLOMETVIES
AR-- l DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMA UPGRADING P FBUR19
PRACUAP                    Proect rea                   -.wO:dBQk,.,.tcl-v v
\~ ~ Gl of- Thailanddon Gou
13' ~   ~     )T-dnmnhnssdodt
)     1 0  20    30    40  50     , th. I aal ,hhJ, of ana hrrfhr 3'
-12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,v nc Boundaries                       ,J-cbud   I-- 1`12-.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                      W., 1' -P.
FEBUAR -     1991dth



