Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24043-AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.7 MILLION US$8.3 MILLION
AND A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION US$5.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
MAY 10, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
South Caucasus, Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = DRAM
580.84 = USSI
USSI = 580.84
FISCAL YEAR
luly I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC                         Annual Allowable Cut
ADR                         Armenian Dram
BSAP                        Biodiversity Stnategy and Action Plan
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CBD                         Convention on Biological Diversity
CBWvM                       Community-based Watershed Management
CEE                         Central and Eastern Europe
ECA                         Europe and Central Asia
EA                          Environmental Assessment
EIA                         Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                         Environmental Management Plan
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FMC                         Forest Management component
FM                          Financial Mvlanagement
FREC                        Forest Research and Education Center
FRR                         Financial Rate of Retum
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GEF                         Global Environment Facility
GNP                         Gross National Product
GOA                         Government of Armenia
GOE                         Government owned Enterprises
IDA                         International Development Agency
IDF                         Institutional Development Facility
I-PRSP                     Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IUCN                        The World Conservation Union
MC                          Micro-cathment
MOA                         Ministry of Agriculture
MONP                        Ministry of Natute Protection
NEAP                        National Enviromnental Action Plan
NGO                         Non-Governmental Agency
NIS                         Newly Independent States
NPV                         Net Present Value
NTFP                        Non Timber Forest Products
PA                          Protected Area
PAS                         Procurement Accredited Staff
PCDB                        Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PIU                         Project Implementation Unit
PPF                        Project Preparation Facility
PMB                         Project Management Board
PMO                        Project Management Office
PMT                        Project Management Tean
PMU                         Project Management Unit
PPW                        Participatory Planning Workshops
QSA                         Quantitative Social Assessment
RRA                         Rapid Rural Appraisal
SA                          Social Assessment
SAC                         Sustainable Annual Cut
SGS                         Small Grants Scheme
SIDA                        Swedish Intemational Development Agency
STAP                        Scientific and Techisical Advisory Panel
UNDB                        United Nations Development Business
UNDP                       United Nations Development Programme
UNEP                        United Nations Env ronment Program
UN-FAO                      United Nations Food and Agricultural Office
UN FCCC                     United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor
Sector Director   Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader:    Adriana Damianova



ARMENIA
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Global objective                                                                   2
3. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                  31
2. Critical risks                                                                   32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  33
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          34
2. Other                                                                            34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        35
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 60
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  78
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   92
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 93
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          96
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                            98
Annex 12: Protected Areas and Biodiversity Conservation                               106
Annex 13: Process Framework for Mitigating Potential Adverse Livelihood Impacts       117
Annex 14: Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan                                121
Annex 15: Project Implementation Schedule                                             127
MAP(S)
3



ARMENIA
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: April 25, 2002                             Team Leader: Adriana Jordanova Damianova
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor       Sector Manager/Director: Laura Tuck
Project ID: P057847                              Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Global Supplemental ID: P069917                  Team Leader: Adriana Jordanova Damianova
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                     Sector Manager/Director: Laura Tuck
Supplement Fully Blended? No                     Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Project Financing Data
[ Loan      [X] Credit   [X] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): IDA Credit US$8.3 equivalent; GEF Grant US$5.1
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                           Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                            1.40           0.12         1.51
IDA                                                           5.82           2.48         8.31
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY                 0.28          0.78           1.06
(SIDA)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                   2.72           2.40         5.12
Total:                                                       10.22           5.78         16.00
Borrower/Recipient: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF NATURE PROTECTION
Address: 35, Moskovian Str., Yerevan
Contact Person: Mr. Vardan Ayvazyan, Minister of Nature Protection
Gohar Chazynian, PIU Director, Ministry of Nature Protection
Tel: 374-1-521099           Fax: 374-1-531861           Email: NRMPRP@netsys.am
P057847 Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004   |   2005      2006      2007      2008    l         l
Annual      1.00      2.70      4.40       3.10       1.70      0.50
Cumulative     1.00      3.70       8.10     11.20      12.90     13.40
P069917 (GEF) Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY,US$m):                 _
FY         2003       2004      2005       2006      2007      2008             _ X
Annual     0.75       1.00      1.25       1.00      0.70       0.42
Cumulative        0.75       1.75      3.00       4.00      4.70      5.12
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2002  Expected closing date:  07/31/2008
ocs PAt r  A.. Uc. 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Development objective. The project's development objective is adoption of sustainable natural resource
management practices and alleviation of rural poverty in mountainous areas of Armenia where degradation
of natural resources is now reaching a critical point. The project will help avert further deterioration of
natural resources (soil, water, forest, fishery, and biodiversity) and stabilize incomes in the local
communities.
Project Background
Armenia is a mountainous country with a territory of 29,000 sq. km, and a population of 3,740,000 people.
More than 50% of the population is rural and living: in poverty. Only 28% of the land area is below
1,500m elevation with an annual precipitation in the lower bound of 330-600 mm. The mountain
ecosystems of Armenia are a productive asset that produce a valuable flow of goods and services of local
and global significance. Unsustainable exploitation of natural resources is eroding the asset's productivity.
The project area includes a variety of mountain, forest, meadows, aquatic and steppe ecosystems, which
host a significant share of country's biodiversity resources. Forests in the project area have a significant
role in fauna conservation and creation of the transboundary wildlife corridor between Armenia and
Georgia. Two main protected areas in the geographic area of the project are the Sevan National Park
(1,500 sq.km) and Dilijan State Preserve (280 sq.krn). In addition the area is rich for its cultural heritage
amenities which together forms a unique ecosystem with significant potential for developing eco and
natural heritage tourism. The proposed project is a long term investment for sustainable management of
the country's natural resources.
Natural landscapes in the project area are managed by the following Government institutions: state forests
are managed by the Forest Administration (Hyantar) and protected areas are managed by the Department
of Bio-resources and Land Protection under the Ministry of Nature Protection (MONP); and Village
Councils (Haymanks) have legal responsibility for community pastures whilst overseeing management of
privately held land within the village area. Since the end of Soviet times, the landscapes have not been
managed in a planned or coordinated way. As a result of this and the economic hardship experienced
during the past decade, the natural resource assets of Gegharkunik and Tavoush marza are degrading.
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
Global environmental objective. The global environmental objective of the proposed project is to preserve
the mountain, forest, and grassland ecosystems of the Southem Caucasus, through enhanced protected area
and mountain ecosystem conservation and sustainable management.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators measuring progress towards achieving the project development objective agreed
during pre-appraisal inter alia include:
(a)    increase in income (or expenditure) in project villages compared to non-project villages;
(b)    increased crop and livestock productivity in project villages compared to non-project villages;
(c)    increased community participation in natural resources management decisions, as perceived
by stakeholders in target communities;
(d)    reduced illegal activities destroying forest cover;
(e)    reversal of degradation in pasture vegetation cover; and
- 2 -



(f)   increased quality, quantity and productivity of forest cover in the project area;
Performance indicators measuring progress toward achievement of project global environmental objectives
will be monitored according to the Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation of GEF Projects. This
would include:
(a)    development of protected areas management plans for Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan
Nature Reserve- supported by local communities, adopted by Government, implemented in year
two, and made subject to an annual review; and
(b)    stable or increasing numbers of key indicator species according to population censuses taken
in two of the last four years of the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22111-AM Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/25/2001
The project would further the CAS objectives of supporting social sustainability and poverty alleviation
and mitigating enviromnental degradation, the latter one of the key medium-term risks to sustainability of
economic growth identified in the CAS. The CAS is consistent with Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). Like the CAS, the I-PRSP emphasizes protection of environment and
regeneration of natural resources as a basis for sustaining local economies and reducing nural poverty.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
GEF Operation Program Objective. The project is consistent with GEF objectives in the Biodiversity
focal area - specifically, GEF Operational Program #3 "Forest Ecosystems," and GEF Operational
Program #4, "Mountain Ecosystems" - and also with GEF Operational Program #12, "Integrated
Ecosystems Management." The protected area sites on which the project focuses, are regionally significant
for protection of biodiversity corridors in the Southern Caucasus area. Outside the protected areas, the
project supports conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity by improving mountain forest and
grassland management through involvement of local communities who depend upon them for their
livelihood. Beyond Armenia, the project's proposed re-vegetation measures may mitigate anthropogenic
releases of carbon dioxide. As a whole, the project is responsive to COP III guidance in that it promotes
capacity building, promotes conservation and sustainable use of natural resources through adaptive
management of forest landscapes, and supports the objectives of other international conventions.
Armenia ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in May 1993. Recognizing the importance
of contributing to the international effort to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, Arnenia also ratified the
UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UN FCCC) in May 1993. In order to fulfill the basic
provisions of these conventions, Armenia has committed to contribute to international objectives by
developing two national projects (i) First National Report to CBD and Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan, and (ii) Country Study on Climate Change, which were funded by GEF. As a result, Armenia has
identified at national and regional levels, natural ecosystems and spheres of activities which are most
vulnerable to climate changes effects, and ecological consequences that need to be addressed through
practical actions. The proposed project is directly linked to the efforts of the Government of Armenia to
address national and global priorities by reversing land degradation, improving carbon sequestration and
enhancing biodiversity.
-3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural poverty. Since the dissolution of the former 'Soviet Union, Armenia has suffered a number of serious
setbacks that have led to the impoverishment of many rural communities, especially in the remote mountain
and border areas. The withdrawal of Soviet subsidies and markets has destroyed industries that once
provided employment, and declining public spending has led to the deterioration of rural infrastructure. At
present, some 55% of the Armenian population is classified as poor. Rural poverty is particularly evident
among those living in high altitude mountain areas such as Tavoush and Gegharkunik. The primary
activity of approximately 70% of rural households in the project area is subsistence farming with small
amounts of agricultural surplus bartered in local markets. Remittances, pensions and day labor provide
cash. The rural economy provided a "safety net" during the crisis years and absorbed a significant share of
Armenia's excess labor, as rural communities were able to somewhat buffer themselves through their
access to natural resources. The majority of farmers are cash constrained and are unable to invest in their
land and pasture, which leads to slow mining of renewable natural resources. By the same token, rural
people have had little choice but to exploit the natural resource base for survival. For example, timber and
non-timber products in Dilijan State Reserve are illegally harvested, as are fish of Lake Sevan. Over time,
this "mining" of natural resources has led to severe degradation of forests, fish stocks, pastures and soil,
with consequent loss of habitat and decline in indigenous flora and fauna.
Declining soilfertility and degradation ofpastures. Since the transition, land that is near villages where
cost of access is lower has been farmed more intensively, while remote land has been left idle. More
intensive fanning of land near villages has led to reduced application of crop rotation techniques, leading to
declining soil fertility and nutrient mining, while use of production inputs that could protect the soil from
exhaustion remains sub-optimally low. At the same time, inappropriate farmiing techniques, especially on
slope lands, have increased soil erosion. It is estimated that more than 60% of Armenia's arable land now
needs improved soil management.
Grazing patterns, like crop production patterns, have undergone a fundamental shift since the economic
transition began. Small average household livestock numbers, collapse of organized grazing arrangements,
high costs of accessing more distant pastures, and lirnited availability of labor have led to increased use of
pastures located around villages. These areas have become subject to heavy pressure from overgrazing,
while more-remote summer pastures and Alpine meadows remain under utilized. Pressure on village
pastures is further increased by the shortened pen-feeding periods that are increasingly farmers' practice as
winter fodder and farm by-products become relatively more expensive. In a further turn of the vicious
cycle, declining livestock productivity has pushed households to generate income through increasing their
livestock numbers, which has added further pressures on pastures. Most community pastures are now
overgrazed, subject to various forms of degradation that range from change in vegetative cover to
generation of erosion centers, leading in turn to landslides and mudflows.
Degradation offorests. The rising cost to Armenians of other fossil fuel sources has increased reliance on
wood as a source of heating and cooking fuel in both rural and urban areas. The demand for wood,
including both fuel wood and illegally harvested timber, now seriously exceeds the sustainable cut,
resulting in significant loss of forest cover from year to year. Overgrazing in forest areas contributes to
loss of forest cover. For all these reasons, forest cover has diminished 10% over the last ten years.
Moreover, as a result of overlogging, soil erosion has increased in the mountain areas, contributing to
increased siltation of irrigation structures and surface waters. An inadequate legal and policy framework
for forest stewardship exacerbates these problems, and sustainable management of forests is limited by the
weak capacity of the Forest Administration (Hayantar) to implement or enforce sustainable forest
management practices.
-4 -



Weakness ofprotected areas network Armenia has a network of protected areas. However, the network is
geographically fragmented. In a number of cases, park boundaries omit areas of high biodiversity value
that are just beyond the boundary while including large-scale farmiing areas and high-intensity tourism
sites. In addition, the reserve, recreation and economic zones are far too broadly defined and management
effectiveness is very low. The various environmental and conservation laws, decrees and regulations
developed over the past decade do not provide a clear and effective enabling environment for protected
areas management, and the protected areas generally operate as "paper parks." Management of natural
resources within both protected areas is largely restricted to minor enforcement of laws and regulations.
Monitoring systems are not well developed. Communication and transport equipment required for even a
minimal level of management and enforcement is lacking. Infiastructure development and maintenance is
nonexistent due to financial constraints. Outdated materials and the poor condition of visitors' centers
hamper public awareness and education programs. Scientific studies within protected areas have been very
limited in the past decade and are not well integrated into protected management decisions. Planning for
biodiversity conservation in protected areas is constrained by weak financial, human and technical
capacity, and does not employ participatory management planning or make a primary goal of maintaining
ecological integrity. Local people are largely unaware of the protected areas system values it protects,
while the resource managers often view communities in the vicinity as enemies rather than potential
partners in biodiversity conservation.
Global importance ofArmenia 's biodiversity. Besides being of vital importance to those whose
subsistence depends on them, the habitats and ecosystems under threat have global biodiversity
significance. Armenia is located in the Caucasus Eco-Region, one of the Global 200 Eco-Regions, at the
crossroads of three biogeographic zones, the European, Central Asian, and Middle Eastern. This
eco-region includes unusually rich flora, fauna and natural landscapes and ecosystems. Armenian habitats
contain nearly every plant community found in the southem Caucasus and 50% of the region's floral
diversity; a great variety of landscape zoning and climatic conditions in Armenia has resulted in the
generation of plant forms in diversity centers independent of each other. These species are notable for their
productivity and their resilience to unfavorable conditions, diseases, and pests; they constitute a significant
basis for conservation of agro-biodiversity.
However, biodiversity is threatened by natural resource mining. Increasing pressures on critical rangelands
and forest habitats have been reduced to isolated areas of globally significant biodiversity, making the
movement of wildlife increasingly difficult. Even within protected areas such Dilijan State Reserve, for
example, many demarcated "protected" areas are becomning small islands rather than part of a larger
mosaic of protected ecosystems inside and outside park boundaries.
Under-use of remote cropland and pasture also threatens agro-biodiversity which depends on interaction
with agricultural activities such as grazing and mowing. Due to the difficulty of access to them, many
meadows are no longer used and may lose their global ecological value.
Rich forest biodiversity is subject to heavy pressure as well. Illegal logging often completely removes
dominant trees and species, resulting in the loss of wildlife habitats in the forest ecosystem. In the legal
sector, the historic forestry orientation of Armenia's resource managers means that they tend to support
stand-level interventions, such as removal of over-mature trees and deadfall in accessible forest areas. In
contrast to this, broader ecosystem management would allow some areas in different forest cover types to
follow natural cycles providing ecological and socio-economic benefits other than simply maximizing
sustainable timber yields.
-5 -



As for Armenia's fauna, about 330 of the 17,500 species found in Armenia are listed as rare or declining.
The Armenian Red Book lists 99 vertebrates, among which many are considered intemationally threatened
by the IUCN.
Government Strategy. The following reform policies are relevant to the successful implementation of
project interventions:
Reduce rural poverty. The immediate development goals of the GOA include mitigation of the social
impact of the transition on the poor, and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) identifies
conservation and improved management of natural resources as one of Armenia's priorities in attacking
poverty.
Reverse declining soilfertility and degradation of pastures. To reverse the spiral of poverty and natural
resource degradation, the Government has initiatives underway to make agriculture more profitable and
increase the incentives for good management of natural resources. The Government's strategy in
agriculture includes further liberalization of the agriculture sector, support for the development of
agricultural support services, and halting the deterioration of basic agricultural infrastructure. The
Government is also committed to land-use policy reform and establishment of a functioning land market.
Steps have been taken to establish a legal framework for land registration and titling. Land ownership is
expected to increase incentives for sustainable land management. In the meantime the Govemment has
been granting short-term leases of state pasture lands to local households and communities. The
Govermment has recognized, however, that these short-term leases have had a negative impact on the lands
involved. In order to address the disincentive for sustainable management that is inherent in such leases,
the new Land Code (adopted in 2000) sets up the legal framework for long-term lease arrangements. The
Govermment plans to undertake transfer of pastures to local communities on a long-term basis.
Restore forests. The GOA intends to declare the 21st century the century of Armenia's reforestation. It
has initiated a process of reform in the forestry sector that aims to rationalize the functions of different state
institutions, resolve overlapping responsibilities, and update the professional knowledge and skills of
foresters. The Government has made attempts to increase the flow of revenue from utilization of state
forests in order to generate the budget resources needed for forest management activities. To that end, it
has set out to improve collection of taxes and social fees among citizens and enterprises and to better
control black market activities in the forest sector. At the same time, public awareness of forestry issues
needs to be raised, and the Government intends to re-institute community forests and facilitate local
participation in forest management in rural areas.
Conserve biodiversity and strengthen protected areas network. Armenia ratified the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD) in May 1993. Recognizing the importance of contributing to the international
effort to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, Armenia also ratified the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UN FCCC) in May 1993. In orde:r to fulfill the basic provisions of these conventions,
Armenia has committed to contribute to international objectives by developing two national projects (i)
First National Report to CBD and Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), and (ii) Country Study
on Climate Change, which were funded by GEF. As a result, Armenia has identified at national and
regional levels, natural ecosystems and spheres of activities that are most vulnerable to climate change
effects and ecological consequences that need to be addressed through practical actions.
Armenia's strategy for biodiversity conservation, as identified in its National Environmental Action Plan
(1999) and BSAP, focuses on sustainable development of landscapes, building human capital and
increasing financial investments to achieve improvements in four key areas: (i) institutional and community
- 6-



activities in sustainable development and the legal framework that would enable it; (ii) public awareness
and participation; (iii) protected area network planning and management; and (iv) safeguarding of flora and
fauna through mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation in agriculture, forestry and other sectors.
Armenia has ratified a number of intemational agreements and conventions relating to the protection of
biodiversity, although implementation is not consistently sustained:
*      Convention on Wetlands of Intemational Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar
Convention, 1971). Armenia ratified the Ramsar Convention in 1993.
*      Convention on Biological Diversity (UNCBD, Rio de Janeiro, 1992). This convention was ratified
by Armenia in 1993, and the first stage of implementation has included development of a National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and the first National Report
(Country Study of Biodiversity) to meet reporting requirements to the COP.
*      Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage
(World Heritage Convention, Paris, 1972). This convention was ratified in 1993.
*      Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD, Paris, 1994). The UNCCD was ratified
by Armenia in 1997.
*      Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC, Rio de Janeiro, 1992). The UNFCCC
was ratified by Armenia in 1993, and production of a Country Study on Climate Change
is underway.
The Government has established a National Steering Committee for the implementation of the BSAP. The
Committee will form one avenue for mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into central and other line
Ministries. The Committee comprises the Minister of Nature Protection (chairman), Deputy Minister, head
of Intemational Relations Department, head of Department of Fauna and Flora, the CBD focal point,
representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Economy and Finance, Industry, Trade, and
Tourism; representatives of the National Academy of Sciences, NGOs, UNDP, and the World Bank.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses rural poverty both through the creation of temporary jobs in the short term and also
through increased agricultural productivity and improved management of a natural resource base in the
long term. Temporary jobs will be available in community implementation of project interventions in
watershed management and forestry; meanwhile, the project will facilitate the transfer of user rights for
pastures and some forests to communities on a long-term basis. Agricultural and livestock productivity is
then expected to rise, first, as a consequence of the watershed management interventions for improved
pasture and forest productivity; and second, as a consequence of the reduced pressure on natural resources
following the increase in employment opportunities.
The project addressesforest degradation by supporting the Govemment's initiatives to improve forest
management, protection, and regeneration; raise the productivity of existing stands; transfer management
responsibility for certain forests to local communities; improve institutional capacity; and rehabilitate
infrastructure. These activities are expected to create a large number of temporary jobs in the project area,
which will contribute to the rural poverty alleviation objective of the project.
The project addresses biodiversity degradation by developing and implementing participatory protected
area management plans, strengthening institutional capacity, rehabilitating protected area infrastructure,
restoring natural ecosystems, and encouraging trans-boundary cooperation. It also supports biodiversity in
- 7 -



the production landscape by increasing species composition in rangeland and forest protection. Small
grants designed to stimulate sustainable resource use will help alleviate poverty.
There is considerable experience worldwide on demand driven development projects promoting sustainable
agriculture, increased productivity and environmentally responsible natural resource use. Watershed
rehabilitation projects focusing on poverty and natural resources protection in Turkey, China, Panama,
Brazil-Parana Province have been successful in providing short and long term socioeconomic and
environmental benefits.
Strategic Choices
The Government selected the two marzes that comprise the project area, Tavoush and Gegharkunik, in light
of several considerations. The incidence of rural poverty is very high in both areas. At the same time,
these marzes include a variety of mountain, forest, meadow and steppe ecosystems, and host a significant
share of the country's biodiversity resources. Forests in these districts have a significant role in fauna
conservation and creation of the transboundary wildlife corridor between Armenia and Georgia. Tavoush
contains the largest share of the remaining forest resources in the country, although its resources are under
severe pressure from illegal harvesting, Gegharkunik contains the largest water basin in Armenia, and Lake
Sevan has high economic, environmental and cultural heritage values. The protected area sites on which
the project focuses, Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan State Preserve, were identified as national
priorities in Armenia's Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (1998) and its National Environmental
Action Plan (1999). Lake Sevan National Park harbors unique alpine lake ecosystem and littoral habitats.
Dilijan State Preserve is a unique forest ecosystem that hosts 900 species, some of them endangered species
in the southern Caucasus, which are dependent on broad-leaved forests for their existence. Conservation of
the mountain broad-leaved forest and natural grassland ecosystems outside the protected areas, through the
reforestation, re-vegetation and improved management activities projected for this project, would protect
critical transboundary wildlife corridors between Armenia and Georgia, as well as corridors between the
protected areas.
If the project is successful, its experience will lead to wider adoption of sustainable resources management
in Armenia.
Community participation: Transfer of resources user rights to communities is the means selected to create
incentives to encourage communities to adopt environmentally sound practices. Increased accountability,
together with investments to strengthen community capacity to undertake natural resources planning, is
expected to improve management of the natural resource base as well as produce a sustainable flow of
goods and services for the people living there. By the same token, community participation in decision
making and implementation will make adoption of environmentally responsible practices more sustainable.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
la. Description ofproject areas.
Project intervention will focus on Gegharkunik and Tavoush marzes located in the Northern part of
Armenia. The area of Gegharkunik marza is 4,055 sq.km, out of which Lake Sevan National Park consists
of 1,500 sq. km. The altitude range in the marza is 2,000 to 3,500 m, and the total population is 277,000
thousand (175,000 rural, which is 84% of total). It is estimated that extreme poverty in the area ranges
- 8 -



from 30% to 70% depending on location. The area of Tavoush marza is 2,688 sq.km, with total population
of 156,000 ( 98,000 rural which is 79% of total), of which Dilijan State Preserve consists of 290 sq. km.
The total area covered with forests in Tavoush is 131,800 ha. The altitude range in the marza is 400 to
2,800 m. Poverty is high among the 62 communities where extreme poverty ranges from 30% to 70%
depending on location.
The GOA has identified these two marzes as priority sites where project approaches will be piloted.
Tavoush marza has the largest share of forest resources of any district in the country. Gegharkunik marza
is selected because of the strategic location of Lake Sevan, the largest water basin in Armenia that has high
economic, environmental and cultural heritage values. Both marzes have above national average rural
poverty levels (51%, 72% and 65% for Armenia, Tavoush and Gegharkunik respectively).
l.b Project Components: The project will include four components: (1). Community-based Watershed
Management; (2). State Forest Management; (3). Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity
Conservation; and (4). Project Management and Administration. Annex 2 provides detailed description of
project activities.
Component 1. Community-Based Watershed Management ( IDAUS$4.9m, GEF US$0.9m)
This component will focus on Gegharkunik and Tavoush marzes (see Map). At the outset, it will focus on
selected micro-catchments in eight watersheds. Watersheds identified during project preparation are as
following: Gegharkunik marza: Maipor Getik, Antaramedj (Tchambarak), Dzoragyugh-Tzakkar and
Gavar; Tavoush marza: Gosh (Ijevan), Polad Getik, Koghb (Noyemberyan), Hakum. However,
identification and selection of additional watersheds will start during the second year of project
implementation, based on agreed selection criteria. During the life of the project, watershed rehabilitation
activities will be undertaken on 40 watersheds. The estimated duration for micro-catchement planning is
one year and two to three years for implementation.
The component would support preparation and implementation of community based micro-catchment
rehabilitation plans. The plans will be generated by the community selecting from a menu of activities
developed by the project (presented below). Participating communities will be eligible to apply for small
grants to support small-scale local initiatives related to biodiversity conservation.
The menu of options from which communities will choose is as follows:
1.1: Communityforest management. Support will be provided for preparation and implementation of
community forest management plans including: rehabilitation and enriching of forests (under planting),
reforestation and afforestation, thinning and tending, rehabilitation of forest pastures, demonstrations of
sustainable pig-beech-oak silvo-pastoral agro-forestry; and demonstrations of bio-gas production
installations.
1.2: Community small-grantsfor biodiversity conservation. Participating communities will be eligible for
financial assistance (maximum $5,000) to support local initiatives which benefit biodiversity conservation
either directly or indirectly by supporting local livelihoods and reduce pressure on the protected areas and
biological resources.
1.3: Community pasture management. This activity will undertake improvement of the management of
natural grasslands and hay meadows in the project area, including rehabilitation of hay meadows,
-9-



indigenous reseeding, rotational grazing and restoration of degraded pasturelands, construction of livestock
watering points and re-introduction of forage legumnes into crop rotations.
1.4: Sustainable agriculturalpractices. Financing will be provided for demonstration cultivation of
improved variety of rainfed barley and wheat, improved soil fertility and improved methods of animal
husbandry, and bee-keeping. The project will assist conmmunities participating in the IFAD-supported
irrigation project or the USDA agricultural-marketing project.
1.5: Community infrastructure and income generation. The project would also support small
water-collection systems for irrigation, restoration of field tracks and culverts, road network rehabilitation
for management and protection of community forests, and measures to control land slides and gully
erosion. In collaboration with IFAD, the project would support improvement of small-scale on-farm
irrigation systems. Other opportunities will be identified during implementation.
1.6: Development of Community Institutions. Logistical support will be provided to village councils,
marza-level organizations and Village Resource Management Associations to develop capacity to
implement and monitor watershed and community forest plans.
The project would finance small works, equipment, work hire and materials (e.g., seeds, tree seedlings,
inputs, and fertilizers) and technical assistance (resources planning, training, outreach and awareness, and
demonstrations). Communities are expected to contribute their labor. GEF funds would finance technical
assistance for measures to conserve forest biodiversity and to co-finance the costs of recovery of alpine
meadows and steppes, including re-seeding with indigenous grass species, native wild fruit trees and
non-wood forest products.
Component 2: State Forest Management (IDA US$2.8 million, GEF $0.17 million). It will support
rehabilitation, protection and sustainable management of state forests in the project area; improve the forest
sector's institutional, legal and policy framework; and enhance institutional capacity to monitor and control
forest operations.
2.1: Demonstrate improvedforest management practices (IDA US$2.48 million). This sub-component
will undertake: (i) preparation of modem multipurpose state forest management plans in state forests; (ii)
pre-commercial thinning and thinning of pole stands in naturally regenerated forests; (iii) measures for
regeneration of over-mature, partially disintegrating stands by applying group selection felling and
low-impact harvesting methods; (iv) reforestation of overlogged stands and afforestation of blanks in
forests; (v) protection of forests against fires and insects; (vi) rehabilitation of road network for
implementation of the approved forest management plans and for efficient forest protection; (vi) measures
for strengthening the operational capacity of the forest service (Hayantar) and its local branches as well as
to rehabilitate its offices and equipment.
2.2: Strengthen legal and institutionalframework and increase human resources capacity for
sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation. (IDA US$0.35 million; GEF US$0.17
million; parallel financing from SIDA US$1.0 million). 1his component will increase national and local
capacity for implementation of sustainable forest management programs. It would support: (i) review and
improvement of forest-related legislation; (ii) improved marketing and pricing of forest products, including
initiatives to reduce illegal logging and to undertake forest certification; (iii) organizational reform of
Hyantar; (iv) development and execution of training programs for staff of Hyantar, protected areas,
extension and inspection services; (v) establishment of a national forest and biodiversity training center in
Zikatar.
- 10 -



SIDA will provide technical assistance for studies, training and capacity building. GEF funds will be used
for training and awareness activities, mainstreaming of biodiversity-conservation issues into national forest
laws, and development of regulations and forest management plans.
Component 3: Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation (GEF US$3.48 million).
This component will support measures to: (i) improve the role of two key protected areas (Lake Sevan
National Park and Dilijan State Reserve) in the conservation and sustainable use of the region's
biodiversity, and sustain these improvements; (ii) improve the capacity of the Departmnent of Bio-resources
and Land Protection of the MoNP to meet its biodiversity conservation mandate inside and outside
protected areas - including mainstreaming of biodiversity in government policies and laws as well as
activities of the line ministries and marza governments.
3.1: Improve the management of Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park. This
sub-component will support preparation and implementation of new management plans for Lake Sevan
National Park and Dilijan State Reserve. Specific activities under this component will include: (i)
preparing participatory protected area management plans; (ii) developing monitoring systems and
undertaking applied studies in support of improved management; (iii) providing professional development
and training for protected-areas staff and local stakeholders; (iv) delivering enviromnental education and
public community programs to build local awareness of the protected area's multiple objectives and
encourage participation of local communities; (v) establishing park infrastructure and logistical support at
Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park. The management plans will review the boundaries of
these protected areas and propose more effective boundaries and zoning based on scientific knowledge and
updated baseline inventory and maps. The planning process will take the view that protected area
management plans are tools to address a wide variety of demands and values (biodiversity, human, cultural,
socioeconomic) with a primary goal of conserving globally and nationally important biodiversity. In the
case of Dilijan State Preserve, the management plan will serve as input for the GoA's decision on the
Preserve's proposed change in status.
3.2: Build capacity in the MoNP to administer the system ofprotected areas, and build public
awareness of biodiversity conservation. Specific activities under this sub-component will include: (i)
reform of key legislation and regulations conceming conservation of flora and fauna of protected areas to
strengthen the role of MoNP in protected areas management, and create effective mechanisms for revenue
retention; (ii) main-streaming biodiversity conservation into the planning and policy processes of central
and sectoral ministries; (iii) strengthening information dissemination; (iv) rapid assessment for biodiversity
conservation at the landscape level by establishing PC based GIS for integrated resource management and
mapping; (vi) strengthening of transboundary cooperation in biodiversity monitoring and protected-areas
management.
Component 4: Project Management and Administration. (IDA US$0.5 million, GEF US$0.5 million).
This component will support project administration and implementation. The project will finance the
incremental operational costs of the project management team, essential technical assistance for project
management (e.g., financial management and procurement training, project audit, institutional coordination,
implementation assistance to communities and public sector training for capacity building, basic equipment
and facilities, and 85% of the operating costs of the PIU).
- 11 -



Indicative        Bank            GEF       %
Component              Sector        Costs    % of  financing  % of  financing  GEF
(US$M)   Total  (US$M)   Total   (US$M)  financing
1. Community Based        Natural Resources     6.40   40.0    4.96    59.8     0.94    18.4
Watershed Management       Management
2. State Forest Management  Natural Resources   4.77   29.8     2.83   34.1     0.17     3.3
Management
3. Protected Areas Management Natural Resources  3.67  22.9     0.00    0.0      3.50   68.4
and Biodiversity Conservation  Management
4. Project Management and  Institutional        1.16    7.3     0.51    6.1      0.51    10.0
Administration             Development
Global Components
_ _ _ __ _  0.00  0.0  0.0    0.0     0.00
Total Project Costs                  16.00  100.0     8.30  100.0     5.12    100.0
Total Financing Required                  16.00  100.0     8.30  100.0     5.12    100.0
Please note that Component 3 Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation is being
financed solely by a GEF grant in the amount of US$3.48.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported Iby the project:
Land Reform. Through its support for community forests and long-tern leases of state-owned pastures
and forests to communities, the project will test the transfer of resource user rights to communities, piloting
implementation of the Government's decision to employ economic incentives and greater local authority as
means to improve management of natural resources.
Decentralization and Participation. The project aims to develop an enabling enviromnent for policy and
institutional reforms facilitating institutional decentralization and increasing local participation in natural
resource management. The project aims to develop the implementation framework in support of
community forest and long term land leases; microcatchment and forestry planning procedures, and to pilot
good practices.
Watershed Management. The project will promote watershed management, facilitating horizontal and
vertical integration of natural resources management. The project will test integrated resource planning
approaches at the community level, adding to the skills base for development and implementation of
national landscape management programs.
Biodiversity Conservation and Protected Areas Management. The project will pave the road to concrete
reform steps for defining the roles and responsibilities of MONP for protected area management, relative to
other sectoral agencies; strengthening the enforcement powers of the State Inspectorate and protected areas
guards; and establishing a legal mechanism for revenue retention.
State Forest Management. The project will support the Government of Armenia's initiative to increase the
capacity of state forestry agencies for sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The two marzes that are the focus of the project are among the poorest regions in Armenia. The Marzes'
rural population of 273,000 would benefit from increased incomes due to more productive cropland,
pasture and forests. The population of 100 villages will directly benefit from project activities.
Pre-commercial thinning and conversion of coppice to high forest would produce a great deal of fuel wood
that would benefit local people without harming the forests.
The project would benefit all those living in Gegharkunik and Tavoush marzes through its protection of
ecosystem services, such as watershed protection which help secure the water supply during dry seasons
and improve the area's resilience to drought.
National, regional and local agencies responsible for natural resource management and biodiversity
conservation and protected areas management will benefit from project assistance for integrated ecosystem
management. The project will result in stronger community ownership and strengthen the roots of civil
society.
Global benefits will accrue from conservation of globally important biodiversity in the Southern Caucasus
mountains and creation of a more effective protected area network. The project will help conserve globally
significant wildlife and numerous threatened species as Sorbus hajastana, Juniperus polycorpus and J.
oblonga, Acantholimon gabrieljanae, Vicia akhmaganika, Vicia grossheimii, Larus ,komarovii, Achilea
smirnovii, Crepis vildenovii and other relic plants preserved from pre-historic times (golocen, plyocen).
The project will strengthen Armenia's cooperation with Georgia and Azerbaijan on biodiversity
conservation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management Board. The Project Management Board (PMB) is an interministerial body
established for the preparation of the project and will continue functioning during the implementation
phase. The Minister of Nature Protection will chair the PMB. Armenian regulations require the Ministry
of Finance and Economy to also be represented. In addition, taking into consideration the multi-sectoral
nature of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Social Welfare and State Department of
Cadastre will be represented on the Board. Representatives of Tavoush and Gegharkunik Marzes will have
a deliberative voice in the Board. Participating rural communities will be represented at PMB meetings as
needed. PMIB will have the responsibility for overall supervision of project activities including approval of
work plans and budgets and inter-agency coordination.
Project Lead Agency and Participating Organizations. The Ministry of Nature Protection will be the
lead Government institution responsible for project implementation in close coordination with other
stakeholder agencies and beneficiary groups. However, the Department of Forestry (Hayantar) will be
responsible through its district branches for implementation of Component 2, "Forest Management," under
the supervision of the MoNP and PMB; while Component 3, "Protected Areas Management," will be the
direct responsibility of the Department of Biodiversity and Land Protection in close coordination with the
Project Implementation Unit, administrations of Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan Nature Reserve.
Hayantar will also provide forest extension services to the community for implementation of forest
management activities, and the Forest Research Center (FREC) will provide assistance in forest
management planning and forest training activities.
Project Implementation Unit. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the MoNP. It
will be responsible for the administration and day-to-day management of project implementation.
- 13 -



Coordination among implementing agencies is crucial for project implementation, and therefore a
well-functioning interface between local communities and government agencies will be established at the
outset of project implementation. While coordination among institutional stakeholders at the central level
will be carried out under the umbrella of the PMB, the PIU would be responsible for coordinating activities
with project stakeholders and government institutions during project implementation.
A Project Implementation Unit staff in the Marzes will provide day-to-day implementation support to
communities. PIU staff will: (a) provide planning and technical assistance to participating communities in
the Marzes; (b) serve as liaison with the Marza governments and local agencies; (c) coordinate project
activities with other donor-funded projects in the project area; and (d) popularize project activities and
disseminate infornation. The project will provide logistical support and training for environmental and
agricultural departments of the Marza governments that will be involved in monitoring project activities.
On behalf of the Government, the PIU will enter into Micro-catchment (MC) agreements with Village
Councils that will specify the MC activities, implementation arrangements, monitoring requirements and
budgets of annual village investment plans. The PIU will help Village Resources Management
Associations (VRMAs, see below) to prepare and implement MC and forest management plans. The PIU
will submit project annual work plans to the PMB for approval by September 1 each implementation year.
The PIU will contract implementation services, such as technical support and supervision of
implementation of annual community work plans, review of design works and supervision of work
undertaken by contractors, and will carry out quality control by site visits.
Implementation Arrangements at Watershed Level. Implementation arrangements at the local level will
be as set out in the Guidelines for Participatory Watershed Management that were developed during project
preparation. The project will strengthen existing village-level institutions and will support the establishment
of VMRA as informal community-based groups which will have the responsability for implementation at
the village level.
In each project area, the Marzpeteran's office will facilitate coordination between local stakeholders and
participating communities.
Local service providers may qualify for provision of technical and implementation services and will be
contracted by the PIU on a competitive basis. Existing Agricultural Support Centers in the two marzes
could be contracted by the PIU to assist village resource management groups in planning and implementing
community-based soil control, forestry, pasture and resource management sub-projects, farmers' training
and extension support. The PIU will be responsible for independent monitoring to ensure efficient and
transparent use of project funds by communities. Such monitoring will be carried out through frequent site
visits, significant site presence, and preparation and dissemination of public information. Project
Communication Strategy was developed during preparation by the PIU and will facilitate information
dissemination and public outreach.
Detailed implementation arrangements are described in the PIP.
- 14 -



D. Project Rationale
l. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No-Project Alternative. The alternative of delaying improvement in natural resources management to
some future time was rejected because of the mounting economic and social costs associated with
degradation of Armenia's nature capital and pproaching loss of globally important biodiversity in the two
Marzes. In particular, more than 25% of Armenia's land that was cropped ten years ago is no longer
arable and 60% of the remaining cropland is in "poor" condition as defined by the FAO; 10% of the
country's forest cover has been lost in the last ten years; livestock production is declining at a rate of about
1% annually and has begun a downward spiral as a consequence of overgrazing in eroded pastures; poverty
in Armenia's mountainous provinces is extremely high - 72% in Tavoush and 65% in Gegarkhunik.
Finally, at least 165 regional and endemic species are endangered as a result of poor stewardship practices
such as overgrazing and ineffective erosion control.
National-Level Multi-Sectoral Intervention through Adaptable Program Lending. A three-phase
project was considered, in which the first phase would concentrate on policy reforrn and institutional
capacity building measures identified in the National Environmental Action Program, and the second and
third phases would focus on environmental infrastructure investments. This alternative was rejected
because: (i) it was judged so complex as to not be implementable; (ii) capacity to implement the broad
program of legal and institutional reform that was proposed is uncertain; (iii) the impact on resource users'
incomes was uncertain, and the framework offered limited opportunities for their meaningful participation;
and (iv) future availability of IDA funds for implementation of a national program in this area is uncertain.
Geographically-Focused vs. Country-Wide Scope. A country-wide environmental and natural resources
management project was considered. This concept was rejected on the ground of lack of experience and
sufficient institutional capacity on the part of the lead implementing agency and other stakeholders to
handle a large-scale national operation satisfactorily addressing the links among natural resources
degradation, poverty and income generation. At the same time, Bank experience indicates that resource
degradation can best be addressed only through a watershed approach to resource management with
location-specific solutions, and by working closely with local communities. A design focusing on a limited
geographic area was therefore selected to test the "watershed development" approach in Armenia, paving
the way for future wider replication. Such a "learning-by-doing approach" will build the institutional and
stakeholder capacity that is critical to sustain the results of the proposed interventions.
Self-standing GEF intervention versus IDA/GEF project. A project focusing on protected areas was
rejected in favor of a project generating local and global benefits that are complementary and mutually
reinforcing; after all, realization of biodiversity benefits depends on relieving anthropogenic pressures
caused by poverty.
- 15-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .                              Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
:_______________________________ .______________________ _ .(Bank-flnanced  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  ObjecUve (DO)
Improve efficiency of farm water  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S          S
resources use                    (FY95)
Increase agriculture productivity  Agricultural Reform Support    S             S
Project (FY98)
Protect rural population and     Dam Rehabilitation Project       S             S
socio-economic infrastructure related to (FY99)
dam safety
Improved water and wastewater    Municipal Development Project     S            S
services for Yerevan.            (FY98)
Establish land title registration system  Title Registration (FY99)  S          S
Support lower income groups among  Social Investment Fund (FY96)  S             S
through improvement of basic social
services and creation of employment
opportunities
Develop and strengthen Armenia's  Strengthening Institutional      S            S
environmental institution's capacity  Capacity in MoNP- IDF Grant
(FY 96)
Develop a mitigation plan to address  Lake Sevan Action Program -  S            S
the ecological problems of Lake Sevan. IDF Grant (FY96)
Other development agencies
The Netherlands Government (Grant)  Integrated Water Resources
Management Plan (Bank
executed)
FAO                               Forest Sector Development,
Phases I and 2, 07/94-04/97
USAID                             Coal Resources Usage and
Assessment Program
12/95-12/97
United Nations Environment Program - Phasing out Ozone Depleting
UNEP                              Substances, 05/97-02/98
Global Environment Facility - GEF,  Biodiversity - Strategy and
UNDP                              Action Plan 08/97-08/98
GEF, UNDP                         Armenia Country Study on
Climate Change 09/96-09/98
UNDP                              Strengthening MoNP
05/97-01/99
Swedish International Cooperation  Forest Resources Assessment
Agency - SIDA                     Project 07/98-03/99
- 16 -



UNDP and GEF PDF A Grant           Lake Gilli Biodiversity Project
UNDP and GEF PDF B Grant           In-Situ Conservation and
Sustainable Use of
Agro-biodiversity in Armenia
05/98-01/00
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project builds on the Bank's global experience in natural resources management and poverty
alleviation project ( East Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation, Albania Forestry Project, natural resource
management projects in Panama and China etc.). Lessons from a review of Bank experience in natural
resources management and poverty alleviation include the following:
(i)  It is clearly important to identify the impact of project interventions on use of natural resources
and on the incomes of rural poor who use these resources. The project needs to have clear
development objectives and a simple yet flexible monitoring and evaluation system to avoid
activities with questionable financial and environmental sustainability or which have little overall
impact.
(ii)  The project's rationale, benefits and objectives should be made known to all stakeholders,
through consultations and public awareness programs.
(iii) Substantial capacity often exists at the local level even though project beneficiaries may not be
able to fully demonstrate their skills at the outset of project implementation. Beneficiary training
and extension programs are therefore important to provide the skills necessary to utilize the
investments and opportunities delivered by the project in the most profitable and sustainable way.
(iv) Active participation of project beneficiaries is important in the identification of problems and
solutions. Activities and strategic approaches will have the greatest impact and full ownership by
beneficiaries if problems are solved jointly with them, not for them. Capacity and skill transfer to
beneficiaries leads to the best results in practice.
(v)  Project design should be within the limits of the Government's ability to implement the project.
Past environmental and natural resources management projects often suffered from over-sizing,
attempting to cover diverse issues and placing large implementation/coordination burdens on
environmental/natural resources management agencies that are often young and inexperienced.
(vi) Enviromnent-friendly agricultural activities should establish a link between environmental
protection and tangible benefits for local communities and other key stakeholders.
(vii) The focus of the project on participatory, community-based activities that lead to improved
management and conservation of resources should be maintained; focus should not be transferred
to a rural development project.
Lessons learned from other Bank projects in Armenia point to additional critical issues.
(i)  It is important that the project addresses the need for better inter-sectoral and inter-agency
coordination of implementation activities.
- 17 -



(ii)  Sufficient time should be allocated for planning to ensure adequate participation of local
population in project activities and full response to new ideas proposed by the community and its
individual members.
(iii) Decentralization of decision-making to the local level is critical to make the project
demand-driven and to strengthen project ownership among beneficiaries.
(iv) There is a critical need to strengthen the capacity of local government staff and communities so
that they can fully participate in the preparation and implementation of the proposed project
activities.
In accordance with GEF guidelines a STAP review was undertaken. The review was generally positive and
approval was recommended, subject to minor modifications. The STAP reviewer (Dr. Norman Myers)
provided useful and incisive advice on the biodiversity conservation aspects of the project as a whole.
Principal points, which could usefully be applied to biodiversity conservation and protected areas
management in general, were:
(a) The advisability of defining in better detail the linkages between poverty and biodiversity losses;
(b) The suggestion that the team outline the potential for tourism development in the project areas; and
(c) A need to indicate more clearly who is responsible for the project's success.
The team appreciated these points. Item (i) will be addressed through further studies and social surveys as
part of implementation work. Item (ii) has been addressed in the PA management and biodiversity
preparation work. Point (iii) has been addressed in terms of project institutional structures established for
the project, and through participatory project implementation.
In addition, the reviewer provided valuable comments onl project justification in terms of biodiversity
conservation issues addressed by the project and their global significance. (Annex 12).
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Government commitment to and ownership of this project is evident in the actions it has taken to promote
project preparation to date.
* The Government is aware of and has addressed project financing needs: (i) Project preparation was
undertaken under a PDF Block Grant requested by the Government; (ii) The GOA submitted a PPF
request for an advance of US$450,000 to proceed with technical preparation of project activities
including agricultural activities which require seasonal inputs; (iii) During negotiations, the MOFE
indicated a commitment to allocate project counterpart fund in the required amount in its annual
budget; and (iv) The MOFE made a committment tD deposit the initial counterpart contribution of
$75,000 prior to project effectiveness.
*   The Government committed the time of senior ministers to the project in decreeing the establishment of
a Project Management Board with high-level ministry representation. The Project Management Board
meets regularly and the members have shown their interest and commitment by following preparation
progress and resolving issues as they arose.
*   The Government has, by decree, established the PIU, which is building capacity and is prepared to
launch implementation.
- 18 -



The Government's commitment to addressing the underlying issues is also clear.
*   Armenia's NEAP, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers in December 1998, identified national
environmental goals, objectives and priority activities.
*   The Ministries of Nature Protection, of Finance and Economy, of Agriculture, and of Social Welfare
have made a commitment to adopt demand-driven approaches to the provision of rural social and
environmental services.
*   The GOA has indicated its interest to use the project implementation experience to potentially replicate
the project activities on a nationwide scale.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The project is a logical follow up of the NEAP and Lake Sevan Action Plan, which identified a set of
national priorities and will continue to support the implementation of a number of measures of the
environmental reform agenda. The project is in full correspondence with the NEAP and LSAP and BSAP
priorities. The value added of Bank support in this project lies in its global experience in: (i) developing
and implementing community-based strategies for natural resources management; (ii) establishing
community based institutional arrangements for natural resources management; and (iii) acting as a
catalyst for mobilizing co-financing from various multilateral and bilateral sources to contribute towards
project needs and future investments.
Furthermore, the Bank's involvement would promote valuable lessons and initiatives tested by the project
to be scaled up into a larger program in the future and to be used for the development and implementation
of similar initiatives in other CEE/NIS countries. The GOA has indicated its interest to use the project
implementation experience to potentially replicate the project activities on a nationwide scale. Specifically,
the project implementation experience will be used to replicate project activities as part of a national system
of protected areas.
The GEF value added comes from its global experience in the design, implementation, and financing of
biodiversity conservation projects. GEF support is justified by the global importance of the province's
biodiversity and by the unique opportunity to strengthen the management of globally and regionally
important protected areas. The Bank's suite of GEF and biodiversity projects in the Caucasus region
provides opporunities for promotion of exchange of ideas, cross-fertilization with other GEF projects in
the region, and strengthened trans-boundary cooperation in biodiversity monitoring and evaluation, review,
and scientific oversight. Finally, the value of GEF support comes from providing additional funds in the
form of grants to allow the farmers to be involved in biodiversity conservation projects.
Without Bank and GEF support, the GOA and NGOs would not be able to ensure protection of Armenia's
diverse and abundant biodiversity, which is likely to continue from unsustainable timber and fuel wood
harvesting, overgrowing and associated disturbance, illegal hunting and habitat loss and fragmentation.
- 19 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$1.5 million; ERR = 20 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
0 Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Economic (the details of economic andfinancial analysis are presented in Annex 4).
General. An overall cost-benefit analysis has been carried out for the Community-Based Watershed
Management Component and the State Forest Managzment Component.
Net present value (NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) have been estimated for each project
micro-catchment and for the project area as a whole. The economic analysis includes direct economic
benefits from goods and services that can be quantified based on observable quantities and existing market
prices. The incremental benefits quantified in the analysis come from: (a) increased crop production; (b)
improved livestock production; (c) incremental timber productivity from improved forest management and
better harvesting techniques; and (d) selected non-timber products (i.e., honey). Other economic benefits
generated by the project include (a) benefits from rural infrastructure (i.e., access roads, landslide control,
pasture watering points, and biogas production); (b) non-timber forest benefits (berries, mushrooms, etc.);
(c) downstream environmental benefits (reduced sedimentation from soil erosion); and (d) regional and
global environmental benefits (biodiversity conservation) are evaluated in qualitative terms.
The ERR for the Community-Based Watershed Management Component over the whole project area is
estimated at 23%, based on the implementation plans for the first year's micro-catchments. Individual
micro-catchment investments will be subject to separate economic and financial analysis during the project
implementation period before they are eligible for project financing. Investments in small-scale irrigation
infrastructure are subject to a separate technical and economic feasibility analysis carried out by IFAD. It
is expected that the appraisal of individual sub-projects will eliminate economically non-feasible sites and
increase the overall ERR of the project.
The ERR for the State Forest Management Component is estimated at 16%. The total ERR (economic and
full environmental benefits) of the project is estimnated at 20%.
Incremental Cost Analysis. The Baseline Scenario includes expenditures of the Government of Armenia
on natural resources management and biodiversity conservation; forestry management and rural
development activities carried out by a number of donor agencies (SIDA, UNDP, FAO) and several World
Bank rural development projects, that indirectly promote sustainable natural resource use and mitigate
environmental pressures through investments into basic village infrastructure and alternative
income-generating activities within project marzes. IThe cost of the Baseline Scenario over the life of the
project is estimated at US$20.1 million. The GEF Alternative will finance incremental costs of project
activities that generate global environmental benefits. The cost of implementing the GEF Altemative
during the same time period is estimated at US$25.1 million. The incremental cost of protecting global
biodiversity is US$5.0 million, estimated as a difference between the cost of the GEF Altemative and the
Baseline Scenario.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 0.44 million; FRR = 14.7 % (see Annex 4)
- 20 -



Fiscal Impact:
The Government contribution of direct fiscal resources to the project is US$1.51 million. It is expected
that the project will generate a significant economic surplus with has a positive long-term fiscal effect.
The direct fiscal benefits of the project would include increased land taxes as a result of higher yields and
improved crop productivity. It is expected that the potential land tax revenue, which can be collected would
be on average some US$50,000 per year, or US$0.3 million over the six-year project implementation
period. Positive indirect fiscal impact is also expected from payments of pasture and forest use fees. In
addition, by raising the value of marketable farm production output, the proposed project is expected to
have a positive impact on the national and local budgets through increased agricultural tax revenues (i.e.
VAT, income tax, etc.).
The project would involve hiring contractual labor for community investment and forest plantation
programs on a short-term basis, offering additional employment opportunities in this way to surplus
household labor. The Forest Management component is estimated to generate 1,269,000 labor-days over a
project period of five years.
There is also a great potential for revenue collection through the State Inspectorate, which presently
collects about US$300,000 per annum from Tavoush and Gegharkunik Marzes through various resource
user fees. These revenues only represent 20% of potential collections. Currently the Government is
financing the protected areas through the state budget in recognition of their importance as a public good.
The project will develop a more rational system of user fees for natural resources (i.e. fish, timber,
fuelwood, mushrooms, sea buckthom, berries, fodder, medicinal plants) and levies on tourism and
recreation industries, and will strengthen institutions responsible for the collection and enforcement of these
fees.
The project will promote nature based tourism in the project region, focusing on the two protected areas
that will receive financing under the project. The development of managed tourism in the protected areas
will provide modest income streams to the protected area administrations through entrance fees and user
fees, and to local communities from visitor use of the parks (e.g., through sale of food, room services,
handicrafts, and employment of locals as park rangers or wildlife guides to visitors).
To promote improved protected area management, including managed visitor use, the project will finance
investments in basic park infrastructure (administration and visitor center, hiking trails, and a
campground), and marketing of the protected areas for visitor use. The project will also build capacity in
reserve staff to provide interpretation services and manage all aspects of visitor use, and in local
communities on how to develop income generating activities related to tourism. The project would review
legal and regulatory impediments for the protected areas and create an effective mechanism for collecting
and retaining a portion of revenues from commercial and noncommercial activities in the protected areas,
and possibly in the surrounding buffer zones.
An assessment of opportunities for ecotourism in the project region by an international tourism specialist
found there is high potential to develop tourism in Armenia around the natural and cultural assets in the
project region. In a zero- growth scenario for international nature/cultural heritage tourism in Armenia, the
revenues, locally and countrywide are estimated to be around $ 3.1 US million and $ 5 US million,
respectively. With sufficient marketing efforts and infrastructure to support more aggressive growth, and
- 21 -



pending political stability in the region, these annual tourism revenues could potentially more than double in
five years.
There is a potential to collect and retain sufficient revenues to cover minimum recurrent costs related to the
management and operation of protected areas by the end of the project. For Dilijan State Reserve alone,
potential revenues are at least US$65,000 per year by the end of the project. For Lake Sevan National
Park,
the potential for revenue generation is significantly higher. The project would increase the capacity of the
protected areas to capture these revenues through strengthening the management and enforcement and
providing investment into basic park infrastructure.
3. Technical:
Armenia is blessed with a core of highly educated and experienced technical specialists and scientists who
will be able to make solid contributions to project implementation and to the development and operation of
effective project monitoring. While this will reduce the requirement for external specialists and scientists, it
does not obliviate the need entirely. Highly specialized external consultants working in partnership with
country experts will still be required at various points to help guide the development of forest management
and protected area planning, legal, policy and regulatory review/reform, planning within the protected
areas, design of monitoring systems, tourism planning and marketing, etc. The project contains a
substantial training element. While a large portion of this investment is made locally for greater
cost-effectiveness, there are provisions for a few specialized study tours and a twinning arrangement
specifically targeting exchange of experience with appropriate protected areas in other countries.
The technical features of Components 1 and 2 (the pioduction components) will be based on successful
experience from other projects in Armenia and past scientifically based practices abandoned during the
transition period. Specific technology or technical packages used in the project are simple and are already
well known and established in the country or in the region. Local design and supervisory capacity will be
used for infrastructure. The project will apply site-specific approaches for rotational grazing under dryland
conditions; techniques for prevention of soil erosion; crop rotation; and both afforestation and natural
regeneration of forests. In terms of physical infrastructure and equipment, with some minor exceptions,
these will be locally purchased so that they can be maintained and operated at an appropriate level of
recurrent cost. The principal exception however, is the GIS to be established in the MoNP to support
protected area monitoring and mapping. While the technology is well known and not overly complex, the
MoNP has no experience with these systems. The Environmental Research and Management Center at the
American University of Armenia (Yerevan) has a GIS as well as international expertise in GIS design and
applications. This would be applicable to protected area monitoring and mapping, including advice on
aerial photographs and satellite imaginary, training, Ihematic mapping and applications.
- 22 -



4. Institutional:
National Level. The management of natural resources is the responsibility of the Ministry of Nature
Protection, through its mandate for environmental and nature protection policy development and
implementation, monitoring of resource utilization and environmental compliance, dissemination of
environmental information and biodiversity conservation in Arnenia. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
is also responsible for promotion of agricultural land productivity and pasture management through its
local departments. MONP and MOA staff members are well educated and trained in technical areas and
are highly committed to their current mission that focuses on protection of natural resources. Despite
problems of low pay and periods of nonpayment of salaries, staff members maintain high professional
standards and are committed to making changes in the management of environment and natural resources
and conserving biodiversity within the national system of protected areas. An institutional capacity
assessment of key implementing agencies carried out during project preparation identified the following
areas for improvement:
*   development of stronger organizational identity and understanding and ownership of new policy
principles for sustainable natural resources management;
*   development of the planning and implementation capacity and the mar-agement skills needed for
decentralized management of natural resources involving communities;
*   improved communication and institutional collaboration among government agencies (MOA, State
Department of Cadastre, Ministry of Social Welfare, local governments and Haymanks) whose
cooperation is essential to the success of the project.
Management of state forests is carried out by the Hayantar and its regional enterprises, while FREC is
responsible for forestry statistics and forest planning. In general, agency responsibilities for state forest
functions in Armenia are not clearly outlined; tasks are duplicated and responsibilities are not well defined.
Only part of the staff of Hayantar have appropriate professional forestry education, personnel turnover is
high, and widespread corruption is a problem acknowledged by the Govemment. Knowledge of new
forestry methods is very limited among forest workers and contractors. Vocational training for the
Govemment's forest work force or rural people in forestry does not exist at present. The emergence of a
private sector in the forestry sector will require substantial support from extension services, accompanied
by law enforcement and implementation measures. The following areas for improvement are critical to the
success of the project have been identified
*      greater openness and transparency in the forest sector;
*      adoption of a new mandate for Hayantar that concentrates on management of state forests;
*      development of human resource and institutional capacity for modem forest management
incorporating biodiversity conservation;
*      development of an extension system that meets the needs of communities involved in
community forests.
The project's approach is to shift forest and protected areas management from its historic focus,
conservation and restricted visitor activities, to a focus on sustainable use and ecosystem management that
builds on stakeholder participation while remaining compatible with the vitally important goal of
conserving globally important biodiversity. To that end, the following areas for improvements to be
supported by the project have been identified:
*      reorientation of the MoNP and its protected areas to user-oriented institutions charged with
facilitating people's access to and education about protected area resources;
- 23 -



*      updating protected area management policies and practices and developing capacities in
marketing, public outreach and service delivery;
Marz level. At the marz level, agencies responsible for monitoring and administration of enviromnental
resources include marz environmental inspectorates, local departments of environment and agriculture, and
the administrations of protected areas (e.g. Dilijan State Preserve and Lake Sevan National Park
authorities). The functions of the natural resources management are based on one-way administration and
implementation from central to local level, while cormmunication with local communities and monitoring of
their resource use has been rather weak. Their main strengths are established connections and status among
the communities and knowledge of their problems and development potentials. Their main weaknesses are
lack of adequate technical capacities, shortage of qualified specialists which may affect their project
implementation capacities.
Agricultural extension programs are implemented through Marz Agricultural Support Centers. Despite
their highly qualified technical staff and their experience, they lack information about new technologies
and monitoring skills.
Project Capacity Building. During the first and second years of project implementation, the project will
help address these institutional issues at both the nafional and local levels, based on the collaboration built
during preparation. Capacity building, organizational and functional improvements will be initiated through
training for capacity building, study tours, public outreach and establishing a participatory planning
process for watersheds, forests and protected areas.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Nature Protection (MONP) will be the lead agency responsible for project execution in
close coordination with other stakeholder agencies and beneficiary groups. The Department of Forestry
(Hayantar) will be responsible through its district branches for implementation of Component 2, "Forest
Management," under the supervision of the MONP and PMB. Component 3, "Protected Areas
Management," will be the direct responsibility of the Department of Biodiversity and Land Protection in
close coordination with the administrations of Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan Nature Reserve.
Hayantar will also provide forest extension service to community forest management activities (Component
1), and the Forest Research Center (FREC) will implement forest management planning and forest
training/extension activities.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Management Board (PMB) has been established for preparation of the project and will
continue functioning during project implementation. The Minister of Nature Protection will be the
Chairman of the Board. Although the MONP is the lead coordinating agency in project implementation,
the active participation of other Ministries, local governments, scientists and local communities will be
critical to successful implementation. Therefore, adequate composition of the PMB, envisioned as the
project coordinating mechanism, is important, and the PMB will be maintained throughout the project with
membership and functions satisfactory to the Bank. The same will be true of the PIU which has been
administratively established within MONP. Although the PIU is familiar with small-scale procurement and
financial management, it needs to build capacity for project implementation. Adequate staffing of the PIU
will be a condition for project effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the PIU's capacity to carry out procurement according to the Bank's guidelines was
carried out during pre-appraisal. With regard to procurement capacity, the review rated the PIU in the
- 24 -



high-risk category. Appropriate technical assistance will be provided to enhance the PIU's management
and financial capacity before effectiveness and during the first two years of implementation.
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6 and Tables A and Al. Procurement
plans will be updated on an annual basis in line with the micro-catchment plans. Consulting services,
goods and works financed or co-financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements that the PIU has established cover all the phases of the project:
1.     Preparation Phase (PDF Block B GEF Grant)
2.     Project Preparation Facility (IDA Advance)
3.     Project implementation (IDA, GEF, SIDA and Counterpart funding).
The system for the Preparatory Phase is currently in use and proves to be satisfactory. The same basic
arrangements used for the Preparation Phase have also been put in place for the PPF advance and project
implementation phases, and will be used as soon as they become effective.
The PIU in the Ministry of Nature Protection is responsible for the financial management of the project. A
project accountant was hired in September 2001. A computerized accounting system able to produce the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) has been set up for project implementation.
The banking system in Armenia is well developed though still weak. A Special Account in US dollars and a
sub-account in DRAM was opened during the preparation phase for the purpose of PDF Grant resources in
the local branch of the HSBC Bank Armenia, a local bank acceptable to the World Bank. The sub-account
is used for small payments in local currency. Since implementation of this preparatory phase started in
early October 2001, the accountant has been able to familiarize himself with the Bank financial
management requirements while setting up a spreadsheet based accounting system that has been recently
replaced by software.
The Financial Management Assessment has confmned that the arrangements currently in place satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. It is expected that during the course of the project
and once the PIU capacity is fully built, the credit and grant disbursements will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank project financial management requirements using the Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Assessment. Based on the Environmental Assessment conducted during preparation, the
project is classified as Category B. The project objectives are to achieve a range of positive environmental
and social impacts, and the components of the project have been designed to enhance the positive outcomes
and to also include mitigation measures for possible adverse or negative impacts. The EA process involved
a secondary assessment of possible impacts, both positive and negative as well as an assessment of the
proposed enhancement and mitigation measures.
The project will have an overall positive environmental impact by reversing current trends of natural
resources degradation in mountainous areas through improved watershed management. The project will
have a positive impact by conserving globally and nationally significant biodiversity in two protected areas
- 25 -



and in watersheds in the project area. The enviromnental benefits of improving natural resource
management would include increased productivity of grazing lands, better protection against soil erosion,
and more sustainable use of biological resources. In the short term, unsustainable forest and pasture use in
the project areas would be reduced. These benefits are expected to have a noticeable impact before the end
of the GEF funding. The primary major impacts are riot individually significant but have the potential to be
cumulatively significant.
Public consultations were held in project communities during project preparation and during the EA public
consultations and Disclosure process. Participating communities, stakeholders and interested parties were
fully informed of the environmental assessment process and given the opportunity to voice their concems and
opinions. Consultations were carried out at two levels: national and local level.
The major expected positive and potential negative irmpacts identified in the EA are summarized in Annex
14.
Given the nature of the work to be financed under thiis project, the project is classified as Environmental.
Categgor "B."
d. Status of Category A assessment: B      EA start-up date:  08/15/2001
Date of first EA  10/18/2001
draft:
Current status:  Final draft completed on
December 18,2001. Public
consultations completed in
January 2002. Final EA
issued February 1, 2002.
Proposed Actions: The MONP and PIU will be responsible for ensuring that mitigation measures included
in the EMP are incorporated in micro-catchment, forest management and protected areas management
plans.
Status of any other environmental studies: Completed National Environmental Action Plan, Lake Sevan
Action Program, and National Biodiversity Strategy and Action plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
T'he EMP identifies minor issues identified as havingr potential for negative impacts and makes
recommendations for mitigation measures. To ensure that these measures are closely monitored, regular
inspections will be carried out by Marza environmental departments and supplemented by PIU and Bank
supervision missions during implementation. Management plans have been worked out in detail for each
project component and activity, and are included in the EA. The issues included in the environmental
management plan and in relation to each project cormponent include:
* institutional roles and responsibilities in relation to each of the mitigation and monitoring measures;
*   any additional training which will be required to successfully undertake the measures described;
*   timning in relation to the project process; and
- 26 -



* provisional cost estimates of specific mitigation measures (including any required training).
The main mitigation measures are increased institutional and management capacity. The project components
incorporate these mitigation measures. In addition to management plans which include impacts, mitigation
measures and best practices, institutional responsibilities, monitoring and technical assistance requirements
and cost estimates, the EA contains environmental management guidelines for contractors which will be
developed in more detail during implementation.
Specific issues covered in the environmental management plan are:
* small scale construction including rehabilitation of degraded field and forest, and tracks for
implementation of MC plans and Forest management plans with potential negative impacts from increased
noise, soil compaction, disturbance on wildlife. Implementation of Best Practice Manual for Road
Rehabilitation and guidelines to contractors will be implemented during the design and construction with
adequate supervision and monitoring from the PIU;
* small-scale construction and/or renovation of national park infrastructure, including visitor centers, central
offices, field stations, checkpoints and guard stations, a rustic hut, trails and other tourism infrastructure,
will have minor direct impacts on flora and fauna;
* increase in recreational use of the two protected areas under the protected areas component would have
minor increases in noise and disturbance to wildlife and may require refuse collection at frequently
visited sites. Tourism will be restricted to appropriate zones developed during management planning
for each protected area.
Details of EMPs, environmental screening and monitoring are provided in Annex 14.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 18, 2001
Final EA was sent to the InfoShop and released on February 1, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan (PCDP) was prepared for the project. The objective of the
PCDP was to ensure that all stakeholders and interested parties were fully informed of the environmental
assessment process and that they had the opportunity to voice their concerns and opinions on environmental
issues and management during the EA preparation process. Consultation has been carried out at the
national and local levels.
Public consultation took place in two phases. First, consultation during the EA preparation process helped
to identify key environmental issues and provide information on stakeholders' concerns about and views on
potential environmental impacts. Second, consultation at the draft EA stage allowed stakeholders to review
findings and comment on proposed mitigation and management options.
During implementation, public consultations on annual community MC and FM plans will take place and
will be facilitated by the PIU staff.
- 27 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Measures for mitigation of potential impacts and monitoring arrangements will be included in the MC, FM
and PA plans, which will be used as a basis for monitoring project impacts. EPMs will include parallel
impacts and mitigation measures, responsibility and frequency of monitoring, and will determine
specific technical training needs for carrying out impact monitoring. Marza environmental and
agricultural departments will carry out impact monitoring supplemented by PIU and Bank supervision.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project beneficiaries are a homogenous group of cash poor subsistence farmers (See Annex 11 for
detailed social assessment). The project is designed to improve the livelihoods of these farmers through an
integrated program of interventions in agriculture, forestry, and protected areas. Between 65 and 72
percent of households live below the poverty line. Household size and altitude, which are close correlates of
poverty, are also above average in the project area. Education, another close correlate of poverty, is below
average in the project area.
The target population relies heavily on the natural resource base for its livelihood. While farms are slightly
larger than normal, production is rainfed and extensive. The primary activity of approximately 70 percent
of rural households is subsistence farming, with small arnounts of livestock bartered in local markets. The
most commonly grown crops are potatoes, beans, and wheat. The most common livestock are cattle, sheep,
and poultry.
The project will contribute to the following socioeconomic development outcomes:
Equity. Labor intensive project interventions, such as tree planting, will offer poor villagers income-earning
opportunities. New management regimes on agricultural lands, high mountain pastures, and community
forests will enhance the productivity of resources on which the poor are most dependent.
Social Cohesion and Empowerment. The project encourages the development of community structures and
their organizational capacity (such as watershed management boards and village user groups). It
empowers beneficiaries by giving them a voice in natural resource management decisions and giving them a
role in the development of park management plans and local infrastructure development.
Transparency and accountability. Institutional reforrn, decentralization and local participation in
developing resource management plans, contribute to more transparent and accountable government and
state management of land, forest and protected area resources.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been developed in a participatory manner and these activities will serve as a template for
implementation. Key stakeholders consulted during preparation include villagers and their representatives,
Government staff involved in implementing the project, and environmental Nongovernmental
Organizations.
Villagers participate in the project through Participatory Planning Workshops. Government staff will
participate in implementation and will receive training on methods to encourage and manage community
- :28 -



involvement. For example, tree planting activities will all involve community participation in species
selection, priority areas for plantings, undertaking the work, and taking care of seedlings. Local NGOs will
be involved in supervising and monitoring implementation.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups include local forest, agricultural and pastoral communities,
forest harvesters, agricultural products marketing agents, local and national environmental NGOs, local
government and local units of the implementing agencies. The project aims to involve through wider
participation and diversity of age, gender and social status, all community members that are particularly
vulnerable to the current economic transition. The social assessment has identified that a large share of men
seek employment in urban areas or abroad, while farm work remains the responsibility of women.
Therefore, women are expected to be among the primary beneficiary group of the project. Approximately
15% of the project beneficiaries are refugees, who are an especially vulnerable social group, as they often
lack opportunities for alternative employment. The project will strengthen community social structures
which are expected to lead to greater cohesiveness and cooperation to use and manage common resources.
b. Other affected groups: These include local NGOs (e.g. Green Union, Eco-Club Tapan, Byurakn),
academic institutions (National Academy of Sciences and universities), local /marza and village
government, private sector (e.g. small rural enterprises, tourism operators, etc.), and people using the
resources in the protected areas.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations and NGOs have shown interest in the project and were consulted during
preparation. The involvement of NGOs was actively sought through the identification and design process
in accordance with Good Practices Guide on involving Nongovernmental Organizations in Bank supported
activities. (GP 14.70). A consultation was undertaken with representatives from environmental NGOs to
discuss the forestry component of the project and their views were incorporated into the project design.
Civil society and NGOs will continue to be involved during implementation. Specifically, they are
expected to play a role in monitoring , training awareness raising, institutional capacity building and
supporting community associations, implementation support to concrete poverty reduction activities.
6.4 What institutional anrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will support establishment (or work with existing) of water, pasture and forest resource user
associations, which are voluntary community based implementing organizations. They will be empowered
by participating in the preparation and implementation of village micro-catchement plans. They will have
the opportunity to participate in the workfare program. They will be consulted in the development of
management forest and protected area plans. The resource user associations will be supported by locally
elected Village Councils. Village Councils represent the interests of the communities in the Marza
governments. The project will involve independent local NGOs who will monitor implementation of
micro-catchment plans and ensure equitable and transparent distribution of benefits to all beneficiary
groups.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
The social development outcomes will be monitored and evaluated through a simple system of annually
administered rapid household surveys and focus group discussions. The household survey instrument has
already been developed during project preparation and a baseline survey has been completed. Follow-up
- 29 -



surveys will be conducted in project and non-project villages. The surveys will measure the change in
productivity and incomes associated with the project interventions. The PIU is responsible for conducting
annual surveys as part of overall monitoring and evaluation work. The focus group discussions will
monitor transparency, accountability, social cohesion and empowerment in target communities. Feedback
from the focus group discussions will be evaluated and used to improve project implementation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project triggers OP 4.01 which requires preparation of an EA and a plan of mitigation measures for
activities having potential environmental impacts. The EA and EMP contain measures, responsibilities and
monitoring requirements to ensure that Bank safeguard policies are complied with. Requirements for
implementation of mitigation measures will be integrated in the MC, FM and PA management plans.
These will become part of project implementation and supervision arrangements. Specific legal provisions
in the Credit Agreement and Grant Agreements ( see Section 3.01) will ensure adequate implementation of
EMPs and compliance with safeguards.
The project complies with the objectives of OP 4.36 Forestry, namely " to reduce deforestation, promote
afforestation, reduce poverty and encourage economic development". The forest management component
applies the Sustainable Forest Management concept where the protection and production functions of
forests are given equal value. Sustainable forest management also supports an ecosystems approach and
pays attention to landscape protection in order to reduce the impact of forestry operations on natural
ecosystems and landscapes. Exotic species and provenance will not be used in reforestation activities.
Forest management plans will identify and protect critical habitats and threatened species or ecosystems.
The Government is commnitted to improve the ecological value of forests and to secure their sustainable
management which is promoted by the project and therefore the policy OP 4.36 is not triggered.
The project is designed in compliance with OP 4. 04, Natural Habitats. It does not involve conversion of
natural habitats and is designed to improve natural habitats protection.
Finally, the project is designed in compliance with OP 4.12. Due consideration has been given to the
perceived welfare risks from enforcement of protected area management plans and possible new zoning and
enforcement of existing laws on activities in certain zones of the protected areas. The zoning restrictions on
grazing, fuel wood and timber extraction, fishing and, hunting will be identified in the management plans for
protected areas that host globally important biodiversity. The plans will be developed through
participatory processes involving local communities. The Process Framework (see Annex 13) has been
designed and will be implemented in accordance with OP 4.12 para [ 7 b].
- 30 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will create conditions for land use that address the sustainability of proposed interventions at
the watershed and household levels; in particular, institutional stability, financial sustainability, and a high
level of ownership.
Institutional stability is being promoted by consensus-building on the project design among a wide range of
stakeholders and by adopting a participatory process throughout. Most of the implementing institutions are
at the local level, and therefore strong participation and better coordination among the Ministries
responsible for natural resources planning and management (MOA and MONP and Hayantar) and their
local departments and district branches are critical for sustainability of project investments.
Second,financial sustainability is a clear necessity. This is to be pursued by a selection of investments
and activities that will generate income streams over time, often in the sense of increased profitability of
ongoing natural resources use, and which rural communities and producers' organizations will become
capable of managing and maintaining over time.
Third, a high level of ownership of the planning and implementation process by project beneficiaries is
critical for the project success. Early involvement of key stakeholders ( i.e. village communities, farmers,
NGOs, local authorities) in decision making and later during implementation will increase the chances of
sustainability. The project will promote equity among community members as most households will gain
access to project investments.
The sustainability of GEF biodiversity projects elsewhere in the region has been considered good
(Romania, Turkey, Ukraine). The project will address the problem of long term financial sustainability by
designing the project with activities that promote nature-based tourism, and by strengthening mechanisms
for the MONP to collect user fees and other charges that finance the long-term maintenance cost of
protected areas. To promote both improved protected area management and managed visitor use, the
project will finance investments in basic park infrastructure (administration and visitor center, hiking trails,
and a campground), and marketing of the protected areas for visitor use. The project will also build
capacity in reserve staff to provide interpretation services and manage all aspects of visitor use, and to
local communities in how to develop income generating activities related to tourism.
An assessment of opportunities for ecotourism in the project region by an international tourism specialist
concluded that: (i) there is adequate demand and potential for visitor growth in these sites; and (ii) based
on recommended entrance fees of US$ 10 for foreign visitors and $2 for national visitors, by the end of the
project, managed visitor use can provide the incremental revenue (to state budget support) needed to
maintain the project investments. During the project period, revenues are expected to be small as
investments in infrastructure and human capacity to manage visitor use sustainably and without impact to
biodiversity are completed. However, in the operational phase (after project completion), the revenues are
expected to be sufficient to maintain the incremental investments made under the project. To ensure
sustainability of investments the Government is committed to improve national and site-level legislation to
create effective revenue retention mechanism and include provisions for retaining a portion of revenues
generated by protected areas.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Impacts of subprojects on incomes and      M        Detailed financial analysis of the natural
non-cash benefits is lower than estimated.          resources management and income generating
activities to be financed by the project will be
carried out. Transparent procedures to select
and reach target population will be prepared.
Weak local institutions to provide         M        Training will be provided to local institutions
adequate technical assistance.                      and NGOs involved in provision of services for
project implementation.
Local communities do not understand        M        The project will provide extensive support at the
benefits of sustainable use of natural              community level. Supported activities must be
resources or have insufficient interest to          able to generate financial benefits quickly. Wide
participate in project activities.                   dissemination of information about economic
and financial benefits of proposed activities.
Ensure that the local communities are allowed to
retain the benefits.
Pilot projects are not replicated country  M         The project will disseminate results of projects.
wide.
Central line ministries fail to provide    S         PMB and Steering Committee for the BSAP
coordinated support for integration of               which includes central key Ministries will be
biodiversity conservation into their                involved in mainstreaming activities
planning systems
Water level and waters quality of Lake     S         Beyond the scope of the project, the Government
Sevan continues to decline, further                 implements measures to improve institutional
compromising water quality and aquatic              coordination of water balances; an EA for the
biodiversity                                         Sevan park basin will be undertaken and built
into park management planning; new economic
incentives will be proposed to reduce effluent
levels into the lake; the park will be equipped
with improved outflow meters and water quality
monitoring equipment.
Illegal resources use does not decrease in  M        Integration of the three project components will
response to better understanding and                 provide substantial opportunities for local
participation in management planning and             people to earn income, directly through project
implementation, and improved monitoring             activities and small grants scheme for
and enforcement                                      biodiversity conservation.
S         PA management plans implementation will start
GOA and MONP are unable to overcome                  after PA plans are developed and enforcement
resistance to implement PA management                capacity of respective departments strengthened;
plans and remove defunct structures                  owners of defunct structures identified for
removal will be given full recourse under the
- 32 -



law to remove them on their own accord.
Project agencies do not maintain           S        Project approach builds on strong local
cooperation and collaboration                        ownership to ensure smooth implementation:
Inter-agencies collaboration will take place
within the PMB, established to ensure horizontal
coordination of multi-sectoral solutions at the
watershed level.
From Components to Outputs
Failure of local communities to organize   M         Ensure that some preparatory work is done (i.e.,
themselves to participate                           intensive consultation with communities,
development of micro-catchment development
plans) before project effectiveness.
Delays in project implementation as a      M         Enhance local staff capacity prior to project
result of the limited capacity of the PIU.           effectiveness. TA will be provided to enhance
Continuity in PIU staffing is not assured            project management and financial capacity
by the implementing agencies                         before effectiveness to enhance the overall
execution capacity of the recipient. PIU staff
changes will be approved by the Bank
Inadequate Govemment co-financing of       S         Macroeconomic stabilization and revived
project activities                                   economic growth are expected to continue.
Counterpart financing will be a condition for
effectiveness
Parliament will delay ratification of the  S         Carry out policy dialogue by the MoNP in close
loan                                                 consultation with top decision-makers
Project inputs not available in a timely   S         The village annual plans will be prepared and
manner                                               approved at the end of the planning year
S
Lack of governance and improper use of               Adopt accounting standards to be maintained by
project funds                                       the PIU and implementation assistance
consultants; devolve management and
implementation to beneficiaries where peer
group pressure can reduce the risk of corruption
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
It is not expected that the project will be controversial. The proposed interventions build on intemational
and regional experience and have been given high priority by the Government, civil society and local
people. One potential area of controversy has been noted, and the project design has sought to address it.
There may be controversy arising from community perception of restricted access to resources in the
protected areas. Management of possible concerns is addressed in the project design which tests
- 33 -



participatory planning and community management cof landscape resources. This information sharing is
expected to result in the free adoption of a new attitu(le to common resources and corresponding changes in
natural resources use.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i)    Provide evidence to the Association that a PIU has been established and is operational in
a manner satisfactory to the Association. This includes staffing, training and premises for the
PIU offices.
(ii)  The GEF grant has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness have been fulfilled;
(iii)  A Project Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association is prepared and approved by
the Project Management Board;
(iv)  Deposit initial Government financial counterpart contribution of US$75,000 in the Project
Account as agreed during negotiations.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for Board approval
(i)    Prior to the Board, the Borrower shall carry out a time bound action plan acceptable to the
Association for the establishment of a fully operational project financial management system.
Specific legal covenants measuring implementation progress and agreed during negotiations are as
follows:
(ii)   A Project mid term review will be carried ollt by the Armenian authorities, with scope to be
agreed with the Bank, by March 31, 2005;
(iii)  Initiate an organizational and change management process for the Hyantar in accordance
with an action plan satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 2003;
(iv)   Adopt and initiate implementation of protected area management plans for Dilijan Reserve
and Sevan Park not later than eighteen months after project effectiveness;
(v)    Independent annual financial audits of Hayantar should start not later than June 30, 2003;
(vi)   Present to the National Assembly draft regulations providing for legal and regulatory framework
for the transfer of forest management and user rights to territorial and local administrative
governments by September 1, 2004;
(vii)  Establish and operate according to a business plan, an education center under FREC
training not later than December 31,2003, and
- 34 -



(viii) Establish an inter-ministerial task force to strengthen prevention and elimination of illegal
harvesting formed by the Government by December 31, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
FII 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Fl 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Micro-catchment Plans were prepared for 19 villages in eight watersheds during project preparation.
During negotiations the GOA named four watersheds which will implement MC plans during year 1.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Adriana Jordanova D  anova       Laura Tuck                       Judy M. O (onnor
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Dlrector
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Key Perfornance          Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives             lndicatots                                          Critical Assumptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:           Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmentally sustainable  Resource based economic growth Economic, Social and Sectoral  Continued economic growth and
growth through improved      in participating rural       country reports.             political stability.
management of ecosystems.    communities/villages attributable
to the project.              Ministry of Social Welfare   Return to average zlimatic
(MOSW) household survey data  conditions.
and poverty head count.
State statistics
GEF Operational Program:
Protect and conserve regionally  Implementation of landscape  Official reports registering illegal Local communities honor their
significant biodiversity in  watershed plans linking protected logging;                commitment to implement all
sensitive mountain and forest  areas and critical ecosystems;                          project activities identified in
ecosystem in the Southern                                                              tradeoff matrix.
Caucasus.
Effectively managed protected  Study on illegal forestry, forest  Commitment of local
areas in the project area;   surveys and project reports;  stakeholders to global
biodiversity conservation
objectives.
Stabilization of key threatened  Biodiversity monitoring reports;
ecosystems and critical habitats
in the project area.
Independent monitoring of
project implementation progress.
- 36 -



Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of ObJectives              Indicators                                          Crltcai Asuu    ptlons
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Adoption of sustainable natural Increase in income (or     State statistical reports    Key stakeholders will consent to
resource management practices expenditure) in project villages                          new management approaches.
and alleviation of rural poverty in compared to non-project villages; Project Progress Reports,
mountainous areas of Armenia                               Supervision Reports.         Pace of legal reforms sustained
where degradation  of natural Increased crop and livestock
resources is now  reaching a productivity in project villages  Hayantar records.        Community needs in
critical point.              compared to non-project villages;                          correspondence with government
Household baseline surveys at  interest.
Increased conmmunity         mid-term and project completion.
participation in natural resources                         Communities subscribe to project
management decisions, as     Perception survey of village  objectives and willing to
perceived by stakeholders in  participants verified by biological participate in project
target communities;          surveys.                      implementation, and in
monitoring and evaluation
Reduction in illegal activities                            surveys.
destroying forest cover;
Reversal of degradation in
pasture vegetation cover;
Increased quality, quantity and
productivity of forest cover in the
project area.
Global Objective:
Global environmental         Development of protected areas
objective: Protect and       management plans for Lake
enhance the unique           Sevan National Park and Dilijan
mountain, forest and         Nature Reserve- supported by
grassland ecosystems and     local communities, adopted by
habitats of Armenia in the   Government, implemented in
Southem CaucaSus Ar ecosthem  year two, and made subject to
Southern Caucasus ecosystem, annual reviews; and
which host regionally and
globally important
biodiversity.
Stable or increasing numbers of
key indicator species according to
population censuses taken in two
of the last four years of the
project.
- 37 -



XKey Perfornance          Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                          Critical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Community Based           Community MC plans and annual. Project progress reports   Appropriate enabling
Watershed Management         investment programs developed                             environment is created to allow
and funded (up to 40 MC plans  Land monitoring surveys    community forest management.
(1) Village micro-catchment  and 100 villages);
(MC) plans implemented,                                   Socio-economic survey, project  Staff and workforce available &
including:                   Reintroduction of forage legumes reports and reports from  trained
into crop rotation (1,500 ha  nurseries and extension and
* establishment of          covered);                    monitoring unit              Decentralization leads to
multipurpose trees,                                                                improved management of
agro-forestry on field   Field roads rehabilitation   Forest management plans      environmental and natural
boundaries and forest    completed in 800 Iam;                                     resources.
margins;                                              Benchmarks against international
* stabilization and         1,500 ha new plantations of  forest certification standards  Micro-catchment plans completed
rehabilitation of active  multipurpose shrubs and trees in                         and resources allocated for
gullies;                 project area;                                             implementation effectively and
* rehabilitation of hay                                                               efficiently used.
meadows;                 Number of watering points
established in community     Annual audited project accounts  Local communities honor their
* sustainable management of  pastures in project sites (up to                         commitment to implement all
community forests and high  200 units);               Bank mission reports/Project  project activities identified in
pastures;                                             mid-term report              trade-off matrix.
* adoption of improved
agricultural practices;
* rural infrastructure
improvement.
(2) Community capacity for   Increased awareness of forest  Baseline surveys, annual surveys. Timely availability of extension
sustainable use of common    conservation needs [up to 1,000                            and TA support services (e.g.,
resources developed.         families involved in reforestation                         technology, knowledge
* Community forest and      and enrichment of planting];  Participatory Monitoring Reports. dissemination).
pasture management plans
implemented.             Community participation in   Forest management survey of Appropriate enabling
forest grazing increased [# of  villages,                 environment is created to allow
forest user groups]; [X] ha areas                         forest management.
community forests (specify
locations).
(3) Measures for effective                               Perception survey of village  General public aware of need to
protection of mountain                                    participants and MoA, MoNP    conserve biodiversity.
biodiversity at watershed level                           staff.
effectively implemented through:
* Improvement and          Increased vegetation cover and
rehabilitation of existing hay species diversity
meadows;                                              Biodiversity monitoring reports
* enrichment planting and   [Number] of projects for effective
sustainable harvesting of  biodiversity conservation funded
non-wood forest products;  under Small Grants Scheme in  Project Implementation
* effective measures for    the selected watersheds      Consultant quarterly progress
preservation beech and oak                            report.
forest systems.
(4) Income opportunities of rural Surplus production increased  Interim socio-economic survey,  Local workforce available and
communities increased.       (income\expenditure pattern  project reports.              trained.
based on baseline consumption
basket).                     End-of-project social assessment. Adequate response to workfare
- 38 -



programs.
[Number] of poor employed in  Progress reports/PIU spot checks
thee community/workfare/     and community sub-project and  Community commitment for
programs in project area.    community sub-project and    funding of recurrent costs.
implementation report.
B. Improved Management
of State Forests.
Sustainable forest management  Sustainable forest management  Hayantar annual reports  Commitment to fight illegal
practiced in selected pilot areas  practices adopted in forest units                   cutting/logging & combat
on state forest land.        the two project areas by     Project progress reports     corruption and release
mid-term.                                                 information.
Legislation by-laws
[Number] of forest management                             Appreciation of transparency.
plans prepared in the project area
by mid-term.                                              Hayantar in consent with project
Reports from nurseries.      objectives.
Wood volume increment
(measured on permanent sample  Forest/pasture management
plots) and increment/legal   plans.
harvest ratio [%].
Area of forests under improved
management [% of forest area  Benchmark against international
with forest management plans  certification standards.
and area under pre-commercial
thinning].                   Hayantar annual reports
Project progress reports
* Technical assistance for
effective forest management Establish interministerial task  Reports on illegal logging
delivered to Hayantar    force on illegal logging     activities.
district branches,       December 31, 2002.
Departrnent of Protected
Areas, local environmental Establish a system for registering Reports on land use.
authorities and          and monitoring illegal logging
communities.             by mid-term.
Number of illegal logging cases
reduced by mid-term (2005).
Draft regulation on procedures
for community forests submitted
to National Assembly by
September 1, 2004.
C. Improved Management       Number of forest staff trained [X]
of Project Protected Areas   by mid-term; [YJ by projct end
in two districts and Hayantar
(1) Effective management of  head office.
Dilijan Reserve and Lake Sevan
- 39-



Parks.                       Legal and regulatory changes
implemented to facilitate
boundary and zoning changes in
protected areas, revenue retention
and stronger role regarding
development of economic activity
within protected areas by mid
term.
(2) Enhanced planning and
management capacity of       Conversion of two paper parks  Laws/regulations//GOA      Consensus on national
protected areas and increased  into functional and well managed decrees                biodiversity objectives.
public awareness.            protected areas.
Adopt management plans for   Records of public
Dilijan Reserve and Lake Sevan  consultations
Park in year 2 of project and
implement is subsequent 4 years. Project progress reports
Areas of important biodiversity
in buffer areas outside the two
PAs identified by mid-term.  Protected areas law and      Quality proposals for grant
Upgrade PA facilities and remove regulations              funding.
defunct structures by end of
project.                     Project progress reports
Measurable reduction of illegal  Field surveys
resource use in the two PAs.
Bio and landscape monitoring  Thematic GIS maps for both
system (GIS) established in the  PAs.
two parks.
Training assessment needs
carried out and targeted
training of DLBP of MONP
and PA staff delivered by year
3.
Adequate staffing of Dilijan and
Sevan park administration.
Park rangers services established
and training delivered to [# of
rangers].
D. Efficient Project
Management
* provide support to project  of micro-catchment plans   PIU progress reports, including  PIU records are maintained in
administration and in project prepared and agreed;    disbursements and procurement  transparent manner.
activity implementation.           .          .       reports.
* provide support in areas of  Contracts with local service                           Project staff is competent and
financial management     providers for implementation  Project progress and supervision  dedicated.
training, project audit,  assistance signed.          report.
capacity building etc.   Organizational and functional  Project audits.             available through project life.
structure established prior to
rroject effectiveness;       Project account disbursement  Selection of project sites according
-40 -



reports.                    to agreed criteria.
Operational manual approved by
PMB;
PIU office secured and equipment
procured;
PIU staffing completed by
effectiveness;
FM and project management
system in place;
Staff training provided;
Counterpart annual budget
allocations transferred to the
jroject Treasury Account
-41-



Data Collection Strategy
___________________          ___i________________           Critical A ssum ptions
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                Outputs)
A. Community based Watershed  US$6.4 million              See below.                   See below.
Management
B. State Forest Management   US$4.8 million               See below.                   See below.
C. Protected Areas Management  US$3.6  million            See below.                   See below.
and Biodiversity Conservation
D. Project Management and    US$1.2 million               See below.                   See below.
Coordination
Total Project Cost           US$ 16.0 million             Annual monitoring reports    Strong support and commitment
including financial monitoring  from local and national
and disbursement report.     government agencies.
Contracts, training and      Timely availability of budgetary
performance evaluation.      resources from GoA.
Management and financial     Implementation agencies have
reports, procurement records,  sufficient capacity to manage the
contracts, audits, evaluation  project activities.
reports.
Implementation agency and
Project launch Workshop Report. sectoral ministries are willing to
cooperate effectively.
Bank supervision mission
reports.                     Highly qualified counterpart staff
can be assigned to work on a
Mid-term review.             full-term basis.
Implementation Completion    Sufficient interest in local
Report.                      communities/villages to
participate in project activities.
Adequate cost-sharing
arrangements with project
beneficiaries established.
Adequate implementation of the
participatory approach.
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARMENIA: Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Project development objective:
The project development objective is to promote adoption of sustainable natural resource management
practices and alleviate rural poverty in the degraded hilly and mountainous areas of Armenia. The project
will help prevent further deterioration of the natural resource base (soil, water, forest, fishery, and
biodiversity) and stabilize the local incomes. The global environmental objective of the proposed project is
to protect and enhance the unique mountain, forest, and grassland ecosystems in the project area, including
their habitats which host regionally and globally important biodiversity end endemism in Southern
Caucasus, with a focus on strengthening of in-situ management of project protected areas.
Project area and context:
Gegharkunik is 4,055 sq. kIn, of which 1,500 sq. km. is Lake Sevan National Park. The altitude ranges
from 2,000 to 3,500 m and the population is 277,000, of which 84% are rural. Tavoush is 2,688 sq. km,
of which 290 sq. km. is Dilijan State Preserve. The altitude ranges from 400 to 2,800 m and the
population is 156,000, of which 79% is rural. A sample of rural villages in the two marza indicates that
the incidence of poverty is much higher than the national average for rural areas.
The project integrates environmental and social concerns into the management of upper watersheds and will
help restore forest, range and farming activities. It offers incentives for adoption of sustainable practices
which are expected to reduce pressures on environmentally sensitive areas in selected watersheds located in
Gegharkunik and Tavoush Marzes. A watershed in the context of this project is the geographical landscape
that feeds the water to a drainage line and from which area communities living within it make their living
dependent on the local natural resources. During preparation, eight watersheds were selected, including
nineteen villages that will start the implementation of project activities during the first two years. These are
the following: Gegharkunik marza: Maipor Getik, Antaramedj (Tchambarak), Dzoragyugh-Tzakkar and
Gavar; Tavoush marza: Gosh (Ijevan), Polad Getik, Koghb (Noyemberyan), Hakum. Identification and
selection of additional watersheds will start during the second year of implementation based on agreed
selection criteria.
More specifically, the project will: (a) develop and implement participatory mnicro-catchment plans in
selected local communities; (b) support implementation of on-site technical packages that would promote
sustainable management and conservation of biodiversity and natural resources while generating economic
benefits to local communities; and (c) strengthen the capacity of local institutions responsible for natural
resources management and moderate conflicts between various resource users.
Project components are inextricably linked with one another inasmuch as they have the same overall
objective and are based on an integrated watershed approach. Sustainable farming and grazing practices
resulting in increased crop and livestock productivity, together with income generating opportunities and
improved forest management will result in alleviation of rural poverty in project locations, and eventually
lead to enhancement and preservation of the natural resource base and to improved species of biodiversity.
The forest management and biodiversity conservation are part and parcel of watershed management and as
such are contributing to the integrated ecosystems approach taken by the project.
The project has four components: (i) Community-based Watershed Management; (ii) State Forest
Management; (iii) Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation. Provisions for project
management and coordination between the "content" components and actors involved in their
-43 -



implementation are included in component four "Project Management and Administration". The project is
expected to finance civil works, equipment and materials, training and technical assistance services and
sub-grants to implement the project components.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.40 million
Community-based Watershed Management. Component 1 focuses on the rehabilitation, conservation
and management of natural resources through sustainable management of agricultural land for crop
production and sustainable management of communily pastures and hay meadows for increased livestock
production.
A demand driven "Menu of Options" outlines the project's activity mandate from which participating
communities will develop micro-catchment plans which will be complemented with special forest and
pasture management plans. The micro-catchment pla,ns will set out a program of activities that meet
village needs and overlap with the project mandate. The agreed watershed plans will include environmental
mitigation measures, as necessary, which shall be carried out during implementation. The plans will be
negotiated with participating communities, and a framework agreement formalized for implementation by
Village Resource Management Associations (VRMAs) under the Village Council. When choosing menu
activities participants will be encouraged to balance both resource use activities that generate short-term
direct benefits, and forest and watershed resource management activities, which generate long-term
public/private benefits. Demonstration activities aim to improve general knowledge and skills, and
demonstrate joint production and sustainable resource use and conservation benefits. Following
consultation with stakeholders in the two Marzes, the following activities are included in the "Menu of
Options":
1.1: Community forest management. On a pilot basis the project will support community forest
management and agro-forestry interventions that complement Component 2 (State Forest Management).
Access to grants for inputs and local technical suppolt would be conditional on completion of community
forest management plans and organization of a Village Resource Management Association under the
Village Council by participating families. The specific activities identified in the menu of options will
include the following categories technical interventions that are eligible for funding:
(a)    reforestation, afforestation and rehabilitation of forests (underplanting);
(b)    forest protection against fire, insects and animals;
(c)    thinning and tending of forests; and
(d)    regeneration of forests, especially by applying natural regeneration methods.
The specific activities identified will include the following technical interventions that are eligible for
funding:
(a) Plantation of multipurpose shrubs and trees (up to 1500 ha.). Reforestation of degraded community
land areas with local and adapted tree species or with multi-purpose fuelwood species, such as Robinia
(Robina pseudoacacia), honey locust (Gleditsea triacanthos), poplar, and native softwood species.
Improvement of shrub and degraded beech vegetation through coppicing and temporary protection from
grazing livestock (using exclusion by agreement in the grazing management plans developed by community
participants). Trees will be planted around edges of arable fields and contours, particularly on slope lands,
to manage landslides, reduce soil run-off and erosion, and provide coppice fuelwood. Outcomes include:
improved on-farm soil conservation and increased crop productivity; erosion control and reduced



downstream sedimentation and run-off; increased fuelwood supply and reduced pressures on native forests;
diversification of farm incomes (e.g honey source for bee keeping, etc.). Inputs funded by the project
include: materials (seedlings and seasonal inputs); and locally provided technical assistance (technical
support, awareness raising and training).
(b) Enrichment planting and sustainable use of non-woodforest products (berries,fruits and
mushrooms) (up to 25 families per watershed equivalent to a total of 5,000 ha). Enrichment planting of
indigenous understorey species in community forests including blackberry, raspberry, plum, pear and
rosehip. Technical support to communities would come from local technical service providers who would
also oversee maintenance of plantings by participating families. Outcomes include: increased abundance of
productive understorey species in natural forests, opportunities for non -destructive harvesting of
non-wood forest products, and income generation incentives for conservation of the forest environment,
which is currently under heavy pressure. Inputs include: materials (seeds and seedlings) and local technical
assistance (awareness and training). The community is expected to contribute labor for planting and
maintenance of seedlings in return for the exclusive right to harvest fruit and berries from their plantings.
(c) Demonstration ofBiogas production system (up to 100 demonstration units). The activity provides an
opportunity for generation of methane gas from animal manure to be used for household cooking and
heating before retuming nutrients to the soil. This technology has already been successfully demonstrated
in other areas of Armenia and is a proven altemative to using dung as fuel. Contractors working with
beneficiaries to construct and manage use of household biogas digesters will use standard adapted designs.
Outcomes include: altemative energy from livestock production at farm level; development of energy
substitute for fuel wood and reduced pressures on forests; organic fertilizer as residue for crop production;
and improved indoor environment. Inputs include: equipment and materials and technical assistance
(standard designs, construction supervision and training in use and management of digester).
1.2: Community small-grant scheme for biodiversity conservation. Participating communities will be
eligible for financial assistance (maximum $5,000) to support local initiatives which benefit biodiversity
conservation either directly or indirectly by supporting local livelihoods that reduce pressure on the
protected areas and biological resources. Activities such as, but not limited to, plantation of multipurpose
bush and trees, enrichment planting and sustainable use of non-wood forest products will be eligible for
financing. Community projects financed by the grant program will be developed and implemented by local
communities as part of watershed management plans - thus integrating community elements of forestry and
protected area management plans. NGOs and individuals living around the two protected areas would be
eligible for specific biodiversity grants. The grant scheme will be implemented using the same service
provider that is contracted to provide assistance to local communities under the watershed management
component (Component 1). Outcomes include: increased abundance and conservation of threatened species
and income generation from sustainable use activities consistent with the selection criteria. Inputs include:
small grant applications, technical review, grant assistance and monitoring supervision.
1.3: Community pasture management. These menu options support sustainable livestock production
while protecting globally significant high altitude pasture biodiversity - much of which is the origin of
globally significant pasture species used in agriculture. Activities will support management of natural
pastures in state forest lands and village lands as well as hay meadows owned by participating households.
Access to grants for inputs and local technical support would be conditional on completion of grazing
management plans and organization of a Village Resource Management Association under the Village
Council by participating families - thus ensuring that project supported interventions result in improved
resource management and contribute to poverty alleviation. Technical description of specific interventions
follows:
-45 -



(a) Construction of stock watering points in high summer pastures (estimated 200 units). Project support
will be provided for rehabilitation or construction of stock watering points to reduce grazing pressure
around existing water points and spread the grazing pressure more evenly across the grazing resource.
Standard designs for concrete troughs and hard stand with float valve and buried high density polyethylene
pipe will be used. Labor from members of the VMRA used in construction would be paid for through
project workfare programs. Outcomes include: improved utilization and productivity of pastures and
provision of drinking water for animals; reduced grazing pressure on soils and vegetation currently located
in watered areas; and improved livestock productivity. Inputs include: materials, works (community labor)
and technical assistance. Pasture users of the VRMA are required to sign a maintenance agreement with
the Marza Authorities as part of the procurement arrangements.
(b) Sustainable management ofcommunity pastures (estimated 9,500 ha). The project will support
adoption of best practice management of natural pastures by participating communities. Pastures on
village, state forest and state land are all eligible, with the management techniques, location and extent of
interventions identified in grazing management plans. Management activities include fertilizer spreading on
intensively grazed areas, rotational grazing, identification of zones from which grazing is excluded, and
timing of grazing to allow establishment and flowering of palatable species. Grazing management plans
will specify the locations for management interventions, and start and finish dates for grazing.
Communities are expected to enforce these regulations with self-regulating contractual mechanisms
administered through the Village Council in return for grant funds and monitored by the PIm. Outcomes
include: rehabilitation and improvement of pasture elcosystems, restoration of herb: grass balance in treated
pastures, conservation of biodiversity and species habitat for endemic flora and fauna; reduced soil erosion;
introduction of improved grazing systems; and improved livestock productivity. Inputs include: materials
(fertilizer program for 3 years), works (equipment hire) and local technical support (extension, training,
demonstration activities).
(c) Improvement and rehabilitation of village hay 7neadows(estimated 3,300 ha.). Project support will
be provided for rejuvenation of native hay meadows using best practice harvesting and fertilizer regimes.
Demonstrations will be used to improve hay nutrition, cutting and management techniques. Outputs
include: improvement of the productivity of hay meadows and conservation of meadow biodiversity and
species habitat; creation of the improved forage supply required for shed-feeding in winter; and improved
livestock productivity. These outputs are essential to enable delayed commencement of spring grazing,
which in tum reduces pressure on spring pasture growth, and soil resources during snow melt. Inputs
include: materials (phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium fertilizers as well as lime where needed), and
technical support (extension, training, demonstration activities). Application of mineral fertilizers, where
neccessary, will be monitored by extension service providers. Communities are expected to contribute their
labor in return for access to project inputs.
(d) Re-introduction offorage legumes into crop rotations (estimated 1,500 ha.). Grazing management
plans focus on management of soil resources and watershed forage balance by production of cultivated
fodder in rotation with cereals. The project will support re-introduction of the following proven crop
rotation system: alfalfa, vetch or sainfoin (3 years), winter wheat (I year) and potato (I year). Outcomes
include: improvement of fodder base and winter feed supply, which would increase the shed-feeding period
and reduce pressures on pastures in early spring and late fall; increased livestock productivity; land
improvement through crop rotation, which will reduce dependence on mineral fertilizer and reduce the
incidence of soil-bome diseases. Inputs include: materials (seeds of local alfalfa, vetch or sainfoin
provenances, phosphate fertilizers), works (equipment hire for land preparation), and local technical
support (extension, training, demonstration activities). Communities are expected to contribute their labor
for all crop management activities in return for access to project resources on their land.
- 46 -



1.4: Sustainable agricultural practices. These menu options are designed to increase local knowledge and
skills by demonstrating livelihood improvement opportunities through improved productivity and
diversification of farm production systems. Support will be provided to enable participating communities
in remote areas to access extension and technical support from contracted extension service and training
providers in the two marzes to demonstrate and promote adoption of best management practices. Access to
grants for demonstrations and local technical support would be conditional on completion of watershed
management plans under the Village Council - thus ensuring that the demonstrations have positive natural
resource management and poverty alleviation outcomes. Technical description of the specific activities
includes:
(a) Demonstration and training for sustainable production of rainfed winter wheat and spring barley
(estimated 2,000 ha). Demonstrate proper farm practices such as seed selection and treatment, land
preparation and cultivation, and plant disease control. In addition, demonstrations would introduce crop
rotation, particularly with forage legumes, which will help to improve soil fertility and extend the
sustainable use of formally cropped land. Outcomes include: improved food security and income from
farming activities; reduced soil erosion and land degradation caused by poor land use practices. Inputs
include: materials (seeds, fertilizers), works (equipment hire for ploughing and harvest); and local technical
support (extension, training, demonstration activities). Communities are expected to contribute their labor
for all crop management activities in return for access to project resources on their land.
(b) Demonstration and training in sustainable irrigation management (estimatefor 75 villages). The
activity will be implemented in collaboration with the on-farm irrigation rehabilitation and Water Users'
Associations capacity building activities implemented by the IFAD financed Agricultural Services Project.
An agreement has been reached with IFAD for their collaboration in village selection and watershed
management planning to reduce the risks of community confusion. The project will support community
labor required to implement IFAD-fmanced capital works in collaboration with Village Councils and water
user associations. Outcomes include: improved water conservation and land productivity; improved crop
yields; reduced crop yield variability; diversification of farm production systems.
(c) Bee keepingfor comb honey production (estimate 1,500 bee hives). Where pasture user's associations
develop grazing management plans that require reduction of stock numbers, affected families will be
offered the opportunity to develop an altemative livelihood from bee keeping for comb honey. The project
will support provision of bee hives and required equipment for families that give up grazing livestock (up to
4 hives per family). The focus of bee keeping will be leguminous pasture species endemic to the region and
leguminous forage crops. The grant funds will be provided to demonstrate implementation of best
management practice bee keeping. Outcomes include: income generation opportunities; pollination of
pasture legumes, forage crops and fruit trees. Inputs include: materials and local technical support
(extension, best practice manuals, post-harvest handling, and marketing support) and local labor from
participants.
(d) Demonstration and trainingfor sustainable cattle and sheep production (estimate for 100 villages).
To complement the community pasture management sub-component, the project will support demonstration
of proper sanitation and feeding regimes, veterinary control, improved livestock shelters, combination of
shed and pasture feeding, and post harvest handling and storage. Activity implementation will require
certain commitments and change in management practices from communities, including enforcement of
livestock carrying capacities and adoption of improved pasture and grazing management methods as
identified in grazing management plans developed under the project. The project will not support increased
livestock numbers - the focus being on increased productivity of existing livestock resources. The project
-47 -



will collaborate with USDA financed agricultural marlceting program, which supports small, medium and
large-scale milk processing enterprises in the project areas. Outcomes include: improved farm income from
livestock production. Inputs include: materials and technical assistance (demonstrations and training).
Communities are expected to contribute their labor in return for access to technical support and extension
demonstrations with their livestock.
1.5: Community infrastructure and income generation. These menu options are designed to support
restoration of community infrastructure and natural assets that are directly linked with natural resource
management. Technical description of specific activities follows:
(a) Restoration of existing field tracks (estimate 500 culverts and 800 km). The project will support
community activities to improve access to remote fields, pastures and meadows that were formally used.
Community labor and equipment hire required to resto:re field tracks would be financed for communities
that have completed an approved watershed management plan. Outcomes include: improved accessibility
of under utilized fields, mountainous pastures and meadows through rehabilitation of field tracks. Inputs
include: materials; civil works (culverts and community labor); and local technical support (standard
designs, permitting, contractor supervision).
(b) Stabilization of areas at riskfrom land slides and rehabilitation of gullies to control erosion
(estimate 500 gullies and 660 land-slide sites). The project will support construction and placement of
gabions for gully erosion control where this is approved as part of a watershed management plan. The
activity will be carried out, to the extent possible, in conjunction with restoration of field tracks. Outcomes
include: reduced gully erosion through combination of construction and rehabilitation measures; reduced
watershed-scale sediment yield. Inputs include: materials; civil works (community labor); and local
technical support (standard designs, permitting, contractor supervision)
(c)Rehabilitation of community forest access roads (estimate 30km). The project will provide funds for
labor hire and supervision to rehabilitate degraded and eroding roads that provide access to community
forests for implementation of reforestation and forest rehabilitation activities (1.1). Outcomes include:
reduced erosion, increased management efficiency in community forests and access for forest maintenance
and protection. Inputs include: materials; civil works (community workfare); and local technical support
(standard designs, permitting, contractor supervision).
1.6: Development of community institutions and planning. The project will support establishment and
strengthening of watershed and community based institutions that will be responsible for developing and
implementing watershed management plans and grazing management plans. Technical assistance support
will be provided for activities which include:
(a) Watershed management planning (estimate 40 watersheds and 100 villages). Marza-level technical
and participatory planning staff engaged by the PIU ( Component 4) will work with Village Councils,
Village Resource Management Associations (VRMAs) and project beneficiaries to prepare comprehensive
watershed management plans using the process outlined in the PIP. Project resources are provided for
transport, data acquisition and analysis, field work and supplies for participatory processes. In addition,
resources are provided for map and report translation and production.
(b) Community forest management (estimate for 14 watersheds). Marza-level technical and participatory
planning staff engaged by the PIU will work with Hyantar, Village Councils, VRMAs and project
beneficiaries to prepare comprehensive community forest management plans using the process outlined in
the PIP. Project resources are provided for transport, clata acquisition and analysis, field work and supplies
- 48 -



for participatory processes. In addition resources are provided for maps and report translation and
production.
(c) Establishment of Resource Users'Associations (100 villages). Informal and voluntary Village
Resource Management Associations will be established for those community members who use grazing,
community forest and irrigation resources. They would be developed under the Village Council with
support from Marza-level participatory planning staff and service providers engaged by the PIU. Their
role would be to coordinate and self-regulate use of community grazing, forest and irrigation water
resources. The VRMAs will register with the PIU. Project assistance will be provided for these
associations in the early stages of implementation to lead the planning and implementation of the natural
resource base and implementation of project activities. This will include training of the village staff and
members of local administrative bodies.
(d) Strengthening the capacity of existing organizations (100 villages). Project assistance will be
provided for existing village organizations in the early stages of implementation to lead the planning and
implementation activities. This will include training of the village staff and members of local
administrative bodies. Capacity building for Water User Associations, required by law for irrigation
activities, would be provided by the IFAD financed Agricultural Services Project in a coordinated and
collaborative way to ensure consistency and effectiveness. Various seminars will be arranged at watershed,
community or user group level, adjusted to the specific local needs.
(e) Community awareness (100 villages). The project will support environmental awareness and
sustainable natural resources management, as well as general project approach and its development
objectives, through training programs which will be undertaken in each watershed during the initial stages
of project implementation. Attendance at training will be a prerequisite for individuals and resource users'
associations that wish to participate in project activities.
69 Local technical support for implementation andfacilitation (estimate for 100 villages). Local
technical support will be provided to enhance the capacity of Village Councils and Marza Environment
Director's to manage natural resources and implement project activities. Technical service providers will
be contracted to provide these services using local competitive bidding. Existing Agricultural Support
Centers, private sector specialists, research institutions, and NGOs already exist to compete for delivery of
these services.
Project Component 2 - US$4.78 million
State Forest Management. The objective of Component 2 is to increase social, economic, environmental
and global biodiversity benefits by rehabilitating and sustainably managing degraded state forests. In line
with the project development objective this component will assist the Ministry of Nature Protection and the
Hyantar in addressing and curbing ongoing degradation of Armenian state forests in the project area. The
specific outcomes of this component is (i) establishing and implementing a system for sustainable forest
management on selected pilot areas in the project area; and (ii) develop the legal, institutional, policy
framework and human capacities for sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation. The
direct beneficiaries of this activity will be Hyantar, the Ministry of Nature Protection, FREC and village
councils. Area covered by project activities includes state forests in Tavoush and Gegharkunik of about
140,000 hectares. In this context project support will focus on:
2.1: Demonstration of improved forest management practices. This includes: (a) Resumingforest
management planning by developing new, improved forest management plans on about 70,000 hectares of
State forests in Tavoush and Gergharkunik. Forest management plans will be based on new guidelines
-49 -



that will take account of non-wood economic aspects, forest ecological, biodiversity and social functions,
and will be based on a participatory approach. Participation is critical to ensure integration and coherence
of forest management plans with micro-catchment plans. Each forest management plan will be based on a
forest inventory [(US$ 2.0/ ha base cost]. Outcomes include: state forest management plans as a basis for
sustainable harvesting in state forests. Risks associated with sustainable harvesting will be minimized
through the safeguards for any funding of such actions.
(b) Reforestation of over-logged and scarcely stocked stands and afforestation of blanks by supporting
complementary regeneration (reforestation by plantation or direct seeding). Reforestation will be based on
using autochthon and locally adapted tree species. RefDrestation and rehabilitation of forests will be
executed on an area of about 1,100 hectares in areas of high forests where natural regeneration has
partially or totally failed (production forests), and where degraded forests are located on highly erosive
(steep slopes etc). The activity would include rehabilitation and expansion of nurseries. Reforestation
activities would be agreed with IDA during the review of the annual project work program and budget.
Inputs include local labor for implementing reforestation and rehabilitation activities to maintain the
growing stock at a level which is economically, ecologically and socially sustainable.
(c) Pre-commercial thinning and thinning ofpole stands would be undertaken on 1,000 hectares for the
purpose of improving the stability of young beech, oak, and pine regeneration as well as to improve growth
and form remaining trees. Outcomes include: improve-d forest health, reduced fire and pest risks, increased
yields of fuel wood for populations. Inputs include: equipment and local labor.
(d) Regeneration of over-aged, partially disintegrating stands would be undertaken in production forests
in the remote parts of the selected watersheds. Interventions would return over-aged, partly decaying
beech/oak forests which are lacking increment and valtie into productive forest management by applying
low impact harvesting techniques and sound silvicultural intervention methods (selective felling, group
felling), leaving sensitive areas untouched for biodiversity, habitat protection reasons. Standing and fallen
dead wood, hollow trees, old groves and special rare tree species left in quantities and distribution
necessary to safeguard biological diversity. Outcomes include: improved forest health and growth by
applying innovative methods for regeneration and low impact harvesting techniques, adoption of innovative
methods for biodiversity conservation in state forests. Inputs include: local labor and equipment.
(e) Rehabilitation of road networkfor implementation offorest management plans would reduce severe
erosion damages from uncontrolled accessing of forests, over-exploitation in easily accessible areas, reduce
harvesting damages and costs and would allow modem silvicultural intervention techniques. Road
rehabilitation would be undertaken on about 70 km in areas where new management plans exist; illegal
logging is under control; specific sites detailed EIAs show favorable results and after Best Practice Manual
with Guidelines to contractors are prepared and approved. Project funds would be used for the design and
the implementation of rehabilitation and maintenance works. Such sites would be used for demonstration
of low impact and environmentally friendly harvesting and extraction techniques. Outputs include: 70 km
of road network rehabilitated. Inputs include: services, local labor, materials and equipment
(g) Mitigation of risks from forest fires and insect attacks. The project would provide assistance to
improve fire prevention and fire fighting capacities in the project area. The support would include
communication equipment, fire fighting tools (fire fighting gears, hand pumps and tools) and in case of
insect attack would fund applications for integrated pest management.
(h) Strengthen operational capacities ofHyantar, the Ministry of Nature Protection, FREC and village
administrations involved in project operations. Project funds will support capacity building in forest
- 5CI -



management and conservation of Hyantar's field services by providing improved office buildings,
radio-communication, office and transportation equipment and funding of related operational costs: Civil
works and goods and materials will be procured in implementing these activities. Maximum use would be
made of locally available work force in creating cash income for poor and unemployed rural people.
2.2: Strengthening of legal, institutional, and policy framework (SIDA grant of US$ 1.0 million
equivalent). Project support will focus on strengthening of the legal, institutional and human resources
platform for implementation of sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation. Technical
assistance will be provided by SIDA to enable project implementation and build capacity in the Hyantar,
FREC, Ministry of Nature Protection and Marzes and village councils. Technical assistance will engage
primary stakeholders through training, consultations and in supporting change processes. Project funds
would be used for work, organization of decision making processes, training, establishment of
demonstration sites and procurement of demonstration equipment. This includes:
(a) Improvement and adaptation of legalframeworkfor sustainable forest management, biodiversity
conservation and communal involvement. The activity will focus mainly on the provisions in the forest
law dealing with the definition of forests, afforestation on private land, communal forest management, short
and long-term lease arrangements and forest planning. The project would be instrumental in completing the
outstanding regulatory framework (transfer of forests to communes, forest management plans, marketing
and pricing, disease control, biodiversity protection, etc.), as needed for project implementation.
(b) Development of a nationalforest policy, strategy and action program, which translates legal
obligations and overall national objectives into action. The national forestry program would use the
recommendations of the UN-Intergovernmental Forum on Forests as a reference document.
(c) Re-defining the role andfunctions of the forest administration to new requirements arising from the
transition process. The project would assist in restructuring and reorganizing the structures of Hyantar and
the forest authority in the Ministry of Nature Protection. Recommendations to Government on institutional
responses to separation of commercial and administrative functions, involvement of communes as forest
managers, decentralization of key functions, application of participatory processes, measures for increasing
efficiency and quality of forest administration etc would be prepared on the basis of analytical work
provided through technical assistance. A key outcome of this process would be a thoroughly revised
financial management and accounting system of Hyantar which would allow a clear distinction of
commercial and administrative tasks. The process would lead to a phased and costed implementation plan
for the forest sector reform which would be funded by the project.
(d) Introduce innovative marketing and pricing methods through developing market economy skills for
bidding, contracting marketing, financial management and involvement of the private sector. Project
activities would lead to improved financial viability, improved re-financing of the forestry sector and
reduced corruption through improved transparency by applying modem information management systems.
(e) Assistance to the Government's program against illegal logging and corruption. The project would
be instrumental in undertaking analytical and independent analysis and monitoring of the state of illegal
logging and corruption in the forest sector, in developing mitigation plans and in building capacities of an
independent forest inspection service.
(f) Develop human resources and implement training program for key forest stakeholders
(including private contractors), through participatory management and innovative planning methods. The
project will finance training of forest staff on sustainable forest management methods and practices, forest
-51 -



management planning , marketing and pricing, financial management, silvicultural management, forest
extension and communal forest management, IT-technologies and information management systems,
governance. The project will also provide funds for awareness campaigns and study tours for key Hyantar
and Ministry professionals.
(g) Rehabilitate Zikatar training demonstration center. The project will finance the rehabilitation of the
Zikatar site and provide the necessary equipment for demonstrating sustainable forest management on the
6,000 ha of experimental forests surrounding the center. It will also support the development of curricula
and training of trainers. Funding would be dependent on presentation and acceptance of a viable long-term
financing strategy of the center. The Zikatar center would offer additional capacities for environmental and
biodiversity training purposes in Armenia.
(h) Independent forest certification and auditing in a pilot area (Zikatar experimental and demonstration
forest). Project funds will be used for developing standards, management plan and implementation of all
necessary steps for achieving recognition from and internationally recognized certification scheme, verified
by an independent and accredited certifier. The Zikatar forest will be the national reference forest for
sustainable forest management and will be used as a dlemonstration and training area for all Armenian
foresters.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.67 million
Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation. The project will support measures to: (i)
improve the role of two key protected areas (Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan State Reserve) in the
conservation and sustainable use of the region's biodiversity, and sustain these improvements; (ii) improve
the capacity of the central PA department to meet its biodiversity conservation mandate inside and outside
protected areas, including through mainstreaming efforts in government policies and laws and activities of
the line ministries and Marza governments. These biodiversity conservation investments are closely
integrated with those being financed in the buffer zones of the protected areas and elsewhere in the project
area watersheds, under Component 1 (Community -based Watershed Management) and Component 2
(State Forest Management). Two activities below will benefit from GEF funding. To promote greater
integration between project components and extend biodiversity conservation outside the protected areas
US$250,000 in GEF funding for a small grants scheme will be delivered through the Community-based
Watershed Management component and US$175,500 through the State Forest Management component.
3.1. Improve the management of Dilijan Reserve and Sevan Park. The project will support preparation
and implementation of new management plans for Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan Nature Reserve.
The management plans would review and propose more effective boundaries and zoning based on sound
scientific knowledge and updated baseline inventory and maps. For Dilijan, the management plan will
guide the GOA decision over possible change in status. The planning process will acknowledge that
protected area management plans are tools to address a wide variety of demands and values (biodiversity,
human, cultural, socio-economic) while acknowledging the primary goal of conserving globally and
nationally important biodiversity. Specific activities are:
(i)    Preparing participatory protected area management plans through: assisting protected
area management to establish appropriate planning teams; consultation with local and national
stakeholders; developing an appropriate local institution for regular review of performance
of planned implementation against targets.
- 52 -



(ii)   Developing monitoring systems and undertaking applied studies to inform improved management
by: species and ecosystem research to build baseline inventories for key biodiversity and habitat
mapping; research on forest and range productivity; tourism development studies, visitor impact
research, and visitor surveys; research to facilitate local resource allocation and access, develop
more efficient policies for benefit-sharing with local communities and increase revenues for
sustainable financing of protected areas.
(iii)  Providing professional development and trainingfor protected areas staff and local stakeholders
by: undertaking a detailed training needs assessment; implementing a phased training program to
address priority needs; providing specialized training in priority subjects such as protected area
management and planning, conservation and awareness, protection and enforcement, monitoring
and visitor management; and organizing regional and overseas study tours to exchange knowledge
on best practices in protected areas management.
(iv)   Delivering environmental education and public community programs to build local
awareness of the protected area's multiple objectives and encourage participation of local
communities in the project by: planning and implementing appropriate approaches for community
participation and outreach, and general awareness raising; producing relevant material to guide
local conservation and sustainable use of bio-resources, eco-tourism, etc.
(v)    Establishing infrastructure and logistical support at Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan
National Park by: strengthening transport, computer, monitoring, scientific and communication
capacity in central offices, outlying field stations; providing uniforms and field and equipment;
upgrading visitor/interpretation centers; and developing low-impact recreational facilities in
appropriate zones.
3.2. Build capacity in the MoNP to administer the system of protected areas and public awareness for
biodiversity conservation: The project will enhance the capacity of MoNP to deliver its national mandate
for policy, planning, monitoring and enforcement, and resource allocation for the system of protected areas.
Specific activities are:
(i)    Strengthening the capacity of the department of PAs to deliver its mandate for protected
area policy, planning, monitoring and resource allocation by: improving transport, computer,
office equipment and national and international communication capability; providing appropriate
training in protected area policy and planning (including study tours) for senior staff.
(ii)   Reforming key national and site-level legislation and regulations for protected areas
andflora andfauna conservation by: providing local and international specialists to work with
the MoNP and Parliamentary Committee on Environment to review existing legislation and draft
new laws and supporting regulations to strengthen roles and responsibilities of MoNP in protected
area management and create effective mechanisms for revenue retention. This includes provisions
for retaining a reasonable and negotiated proportion of all revenues generated by protected areas,
and any other appropriate financial mechanisms with safeguard of national budget revenues.
(iii)  Mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the planning and policy processes of central and
sectoral Ministries by: implementing workshops with senior economic planners and policy
analysts to increase their awareness of biodiversity conservation, and positive/negative linkages
with national and sectoral policies and programs.
- 53 -



(iv)   Strengthening information dissemination by: providing equipment and training for desktop
publishing; supporting the production of materal on protected areas, biodiversity conservation,
and the project for mass media; supporting the publication of scientific research at the site level
under the project in peer reviewed journals; establishing and maintaining a web site.
(v)    Undertake a rapid assessment for biodiversity conservation at the landscape level by:
establishing a small PC-based GIS in the MoNP for integrated resource information management
and mapping (maps at least of scale 1:50,000); completing field studies and research; producing
a report that identifies and maps biodiversity hotspots and critical corridor linkages, which warrant
special protection. The GIS will require a nmix of satellite imaginary areal photographs and ground
verification to be effective in supporting tool for site-management planning and
implementation.
(vi)   Strengthen transboundary cooperation in biodiversity monitoring and protected
areas management by: joint training sessions for wardens and protected areas managers
with the teams engaged in implementation of biodiversity projects in Georgia and Azerbaijan.
Communities located inside or in buffer zones adjacent to the protected areas will be eligible for financial
assistance through Component I- Community-based Forest Management (grants of maximum $5,000).
Project grants supported by GEF financing will assist small-scale initiatives, which generate incremental
benefits to globally significant biodiversity by supporting local livelihoods that reduce pressure on the
protected areas and biological resources. Projects financed by the grant program will be developed and
implemented by local communities, NGOs and individuals.
Project Component 4 - US$1.16 million
Project Management and Administration. The project will provide support to project administration and
implementation, including 100% of specific items of the incremental operation cost of Project
Implementation Unit. This includes essential technical assistance for financial management and
procurement and other implementation targeted training of PIU staff, project audit, cost of field travel of
PIU staff, bank charges, implementation assistance for institutional coordination and implementation
assistance of communities, basic equipment and facilities for operation. A project implementation unit has
been established in Yerevan within the Ministry for Nature Protection, which would have the responsibility
for day- to- day management and coordination of project implementation, including monitoring,
procurement, financial management, coordination of activities and reporting. The Government has
established a Project Management Board which is in charge of overseeing project preparation and
implementation. The PIU will operate on the basis of a Project Operational Manual to be prepared by the
PIU and approved by the Project Management Board prior to project effectiveness. Establishing and
maintaining the PIU with staff and functions satisfactory to the Bank will be another condition.
Two specialists, one responsible for technical coordination of activities, the other for planning and working
with communities, would be PIlUstaff located in each Marza. Marza PIU experts would work closely with
communities and other stakeholders at local level. The PIU staff will be recruited competitively prior to
project effectiveness. The project would provide basic logistical support and training to the Ministry and
Marza PIU staff and village councils as needed to support implementation.
Administratively the PIU management will comprise a PRU Director, financial management specialist and
accountant, procurement and contract specialist, contract supervising engineer and sector professionals.
Foreign and local consultant services will be provided for specific technical expertise when needed. In
many cases sufficient and appropriate skills to ensure successful project implementation are limited to the
- 54 -



local expertise and experience. Therefore it is particularly important that adequate training be provided
first to PIU and other implementing agencies, for which project resources will be allocated. An
organizational chart of the PIU is attached in the PIP.
- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component              US $million  US $million  US $million
Community Based Watershed Management Component          4.50         1.18        5.68
State Forest Management                                 2.34         1.98        4.32
Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation  1.63       1.70        3.33
Project Management and Administration                   0.67         0.37        1.04
Total Baseline Cost                                     9.14         5.23        14.37
Physical Contingencies                                 0.41         0.25        0.66
Price Contingencies                                    0.71         0.26        0.97
Total Project Costs             10.26        5.74        16.00
Total Financing Required            10.26         5.74        16.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million  US $million  US $million
Works                                                    4.53          1.83         6.36
Goods                                                    0.57          1.99         2.56
Consultants Services                                      1.04         1.26         2.30
Training, Workshops and Study Tours                      2.50          0.43         2.93
Incremental Operating Costs                              0.95          0.23         1.18
Recurrent Costs                                          0.67          0.00         0.67
Total Project Costs     10.26         5.74        16.00
Total Financing Required    10.26          5.74        16.00
- 56 -



Armenia
Natural Resource Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
SIDA          Govt.           GEF              IDA           TOTAL
Amount %      Amount    %     Amount    %     Amount     %    Amount    %
A. Component 1
1. Community Forest Management           -    -      46.4   8.0     160.2   27.6    373.9   64.4   580.6    3.6
2. Community Pasture Management          -     -    300.1   12.0    186.3    7.4   2,014.7  80.6  2,501.2  15.6
3. Sustainable Agriculture Practices &
Income Generation                        -    -       0.0      -        -      -     822.9  100.0   822.9   5.1
4. Community Infrastructure & Income
Generation                               -     -    113.6   12.0        -      -     832.9  88.0    946.5   5.9
5. Development of Community
Institutions & Planning                  -     -     59.7    6.4     140.2  15.0     735.6  78.6    935.5   5.8
6. Small Grant Schemes for community
based activities                         -     -      -0.0  -0.0    448.4   72.1     173.8  27.9    622.3   3.9
-    -     519.9    8.1    935.2   14.6   4,953.9  77.3  6,408.9  40.0
B. Component 2
1. Forest Management / Strengthening of
legal, institutional & policy framework  1,081.4 64.4  74.2  4.4    172.0   10.2     351.6  20.9  1,679.2  10.5
2. Management of State Forests /
Demonstrations                           -     -    606.8   19.6      3.5    0.1   2,482.3  80.3  3,092.6  19.3
1,081.4 22.7    681.0   14.3    175.5    3.7   2,833.9  59.4  4,771.8  29.8
C. Component 3
1. Protected Areas Management &
Biodiversity Conservation                -     -     27.1    3.1    836.3   96.9        -      -    863.4   5.4
2. Improve the Management of Sevan
National Park & Dilijan Reserve          -     -     152.4   5.4   2,652.7  94.6         -     -  2,805.1   17.5
-    -     179.5    4.9   3,489.0  95.1        -      -  3,668.5  22.9
D.Component4                             -     -     132.7  11.4    515.4   44.2     518.9  44.5  1,167.0    7.3
Total                               1,081.4  6.8   1,513.1   9.4   5,115.0  31.9   8,306.7  51.9 16,016.2  100.0
- 57 -



Armenia
Nlatural Resource Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
SIDA            Govt.           GEF             IDA             Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Works                                       -           781.2           900.9          4,686.0          6,368.1
B. Equipment                                13.2           207.4           840.2           563.1           1,623.8
C. Vehicles                                  8.8           227.9           278.3           414.4            929.3
D. Training
2. Local Training                        231.2            25.4           809.4          1,071.4          2,137.4
3. Foreign Training                       42.0               -            76.7               -            118.7
Subtotal Training                          273.2            25.4           886.1          1,071.4          2,256.1
E. Technical Assistance
1. Local Technical Assistance             51.2             0.0           526.2           577.3           1,154.8
2. Foreign Technical Assistance          713.0               -           441.9               -           1,154.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance              764.2             0.0           968.1           577.3           2,309.6
F. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -             1.4            30.9            14.1             46.3
G. Grants                                      -             -0.0          448.4           173.8            622.3
Total Investment Costs                      1,059.4         1,243.2         4,352.8         7,500.1         14,155.6
II. Project Management Costs
A. Operating Costs                          22.0           145.9           598.2           425.0           1,191.1
B. Management Expenses                         -           124.1           164.0           381.5            669.6
Total Recurrent Costs                         22.0           269.9           762.2           806.5           1,860.7
1,081.4         1,513.1         5,115.0         8,306.7         16,016.2
Financing Percentaees by donors:
Swedish International Development Agenc     6.80%
The Government                              9.40%
Global Environmental Facility (GEF)        31.90%
International Development Agency (IDA)     51.90%
-58 -



Armenia
Natural Resource Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(Local'OO)                         (USS '000)              Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign     Total    Exchange   Costs
A Community Based Watershed Management
1. Community Forest Management          244,608.0     37,632.0   282,240.0      436.8       67.2      504.0        13       4
2. Community Pasture Management         973,041.7    243,260.4  1,216,302.1    1,737.6     434.4     2,172.0       20       15
3. Sustainable Agric. Practices & Income
Generation                              320,105.0     80,026.2    400,131.2     571.6      142.9       714.5       20        5
4. Community Infrastructure & Income
Generaion                               368,229.1     92,057.3    460,286.4     657.6      164.4       821.9       20        6
5. Devlpmnt of Conununity Instits. & Plan  261,327.4  194,109.4   455,436.8     466.7      346.6       813.3       43        6
6. Small Grant Schemes for community based
activities                              338,925.4      9,551.4    348,476.8     605.2       17.1       622.3        3        4
Subtotal                                 2,506,236.5    656,636.7  3,162,873.3   4,475.4    1,172.6    5,648.0       21       39
B. State Forest Management
1. Forest Mgmt/Strengthening of legal, instit. &
pol. fnnwrk                             268,234.4    614,857.6    883,092.0     479.0     1,098.0     1,577.0      70       11
2. Mgnmt of State Forests/Demonstrations  1,041,275.2  498,864.8  1,540,140.0  1,859.4     890.8     2,750.3       32       19
Subtotal                                 1,309,509.6  1,113,722.4  2,423,232.0   2,338.4    1,988.8    4,327.2       46       30
C. PA Management & BC
1.PAManagement&Biodiv.Consrvt           212,513.7    226,102.9   438,616.6      379.5      403.8       783.2       52        5
2. Improve Mgmnt of Sevan National Park &
Dilijan Reserve                         701,357.9    727,767.7  1,429,125.6    1,252.4   1,299.6     2,552.0       51       18
Subtotal                                  913,871.6    953,870.6   1,867,742.2   1,631.9    1,703.3     3,335.3      51       23
D. Project Management & Admin.            375,536.0    208,544.0    584,080.0     670.6      372.4      1,043.0      36        7
rotal BASELINE COSTS                     5,105,153.8  2,932,773.8  8,037,927.5   9,116.3    5,237.1    14,353.4       36      100
Physical Contingencies                  237,678.6    144,637.9    382,316.5     424.4      258.3       682.7       38        5
Price Contingencies                     402,458.9    146,393.4    548,852.3     718.7      261.4       980.1       27        7
rotal PROJECT COSTS                      5,745,291.3  3,223,805.1  8,969,096A    10,259A    5,756.8    16,016.2       36      112



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARMENIA: Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Background for economic analysis
Watersheds in Armenia provide essential environrnental benefits, such as soil and water retention flood
control and hydrological services in downstream areas. These benefits have an economic value as they
directly or indirectly affect several key sectors in the economy, principally agriculture, irrigation and
hydropower generation. Improper use of land by the local population and degradation of forest resources
has led to serious environmental degradation in the form of soil erosion, with a consequent impact on water
delivery potential of watersheds.
In addition to environmental costs, soil erosion also has direct economic consequences for local farmers,
leading to depletion of soil fertility and declining crop yields. Farmers in project areas have partly offset
the resulting loss of income by growing more erosive but in the short term more profitable crops such as
potatoes. Other major contributors for soil loss are over-grazing in nearby pastures and degradation of
nearby community forests.
The project improves 40 upper watersheds in forested and mountainous areas of Tavoush and Gegharkunik
Marzes, which are degraded by widespread deforestalion, overgrazing and inappropriate cultivation
practices. These watersheds play an important role in providing water for agricultural production and
hydropower generation in downstream areas. The project will address land degradation, forest destruction
and poverty by: (a) increasing forest and vegetative cover; (b) supporting sustainable community forest
management; (c) rehabilitating degraded pastures and increasing fodder production; (d) increasing crop
and livestock productivity through the promotion of conservation-oriented farmn production systems; and (e)
strengthening the capacity of local communities to continue implementation of sustainable land use
practices.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project addresses watershed development in a holistic way with an integrated set of interventions and
mutually re-enforcing activities across different components. The economic and environmental benefits of
these and most other measures cannot be assessed individually, but only in the context of the
comprehensive watershed level analysis. For example, improvement of soil and water conservation on
slopelands and reduction of sedimentation in downstream areas requires substantive changes in the way
natural pastures and forests are managed. This however, is only sustainable if the proposed project
investments into pasture improvement and forest rehabilitation will generate among long term
environmental benefits, short-term economic benefits to local communities.
- 60 -



An integrated cost-benefit analysis has been undertaken on all quantifiable economic and environmental
benefits generated by the project. Table 1 summarizes the main economic, environmental and social
benefits of the project. It is expected, however, that non-quantifiable benefits, mainly environmental and
social benefits, are likely to be several times larger than the quantifiable economic benefits. The total
benefits quantified in cost-benefit analysis should thus be interpreted as conservative lower bound
estimates.
Activities           Economic Benefits                   Environmental Benefits
Community forest management:    * Income from sustainable harvests  * Downstream water and sediment
* Tree planting                   of timber and fuelwood.         retention benefits.
* Forest rehabilitation         * Income from sustainable use of  * Climatic benefits from carbon
* Plantation of multipurpose      non-timber products             sequestration.
shrubs and trees             * Increased annual increment as a  * Conservation of globally
* Enrichment planting             result of improved forest       important forest biodiversity.
productivity.                 * Reduced forest losses from forest
* Increased value of forests as a  fires and pest attacks
result of better management.  * Improved natural forest
* Reduced cost of forest          regeneration from pigs and
management                      acorns.
* Reduced forest losses from forest
fires and pest attacks
Community pasture management:  *   Indirect income through improved * Downstream water and sediment
* Construction of stock watering  livestock productivity as a result of  retention benefits.
points                         increased forage and fodder supply. * Conservation of globally
* Sustainable management of                                       important native grass and
community pastures                                             legume species.
* Improvement of hay meadows                                    * Climatic benefits from carbon
* Production of legume fodder                                     sequestration.
crops
Sustainable Agricultural Practices:  *  Income from increased crop yields. * Downstream water and sediment
* Demonstrations for rainfed wheat *  Income from comb honey      retention benefits.
and barley;                     production.
* Demonstrations for bee keeping  *  Indirect income from improved
* Demonstrations and training fro  livestock productivity.
livestock production
Community infrastructure and   *  Reduced transportation and access * Downstream sediment retention
income generation:              costs.                          benefits.
* Culverts from track rehabilitation- *  Income from the previously unused
* Restoration of existing field   crop lands (increase in cropping
tracks;                         area).
* Stabilization of landslides;  *  Reduced risks of property loss from
* Rehabilitation of gullies;      land slides.
* Rehabilitation of community
forest roads
Demonstration of improved forest  * Income from sustainable harvests  * Downstream water and sediment
management practices:           of timber and fuelwood.         retention benefits.
* Resuming forest management    * Income from sustainable use of  * Climatic benefits from carbon
planning                        non-timber products.            sequestration
* Reforestation of over-logged and  * Increased annual increment as a  * Conservation of globally
scarcely stocked stands and     result of improved forest       important forest biodiversity.
- 61 -



afforestation of blanks        productivity.                 . Reduced forest losses from forest
* Pre-commercial thinning and   . Increased value of forests as a  fires and pest attacks.
thinning of pole stands        resuJt of better management.
* Regeneration of over-aged,    * Reduced cost of forest
partially disintegrating stands  management.
* Rehabilitation of road network  . Reduced forest losses from forest
for implementation of forest   fires and pest attacks.
management plans             * Reduced illegal harvests if timber.
* Mitigation of risks from forest  * Increased value of timber as a
fires and insect attacks       result of reduction of policy
. Strengthen operational          distortions and better marketing
capacities of Hyantar, the      skills and improved work
Ministry of Nature Protection,  organization.
FREC and village
administrations involved in
project operations.
Analytical Approach:
The economic analysis of the project focuses on the three major areas of quantifiable benefits. These are:
(a) incremental production from cereals and livestock products; (b) incremental forestry production; and (c)
environmental benefits from reduced sediment retention and carbon sequestration from additional protection
forest and rehabilitation of natural pasture vegetation. The economic analysis is based on 6-year project
implementation period, and the following assumptions:
(a)    The period for evaluation of crop and livestock production activities is 20 years. For all other
project activities the project life of 30 years is assumed;
(b)    Discount rate of 12% is used in the economic and financial analysis.
(c)    All benefit-cost calculations are carried out in constant prices ( 2000 base year);
(d)    Financial analysis is carried out using minimunm wage rate of 1,000 ADM day. Given the high
unemployment in the mral areas of Armenia, the economic wage rate is 0.5 times the financial
rates, or 500 AMD per day. An average project household is assumed to have 250 man days
available per year, based on the assumption that family head and his spouse spend some 50%
of their labor time on working in the farm. Iherefore, it is reasonable to assume that
sufficient labor can be obtained for project activities without jeopardizing the regular economic
activities in the project area;
(e)    Most of the quantified economic benefits are derived using salable incremental output such
as cereals, livestock products, comb honey, timber and fuelwood. Armenia is a net importer
of cereals and timber; there is a growing domestic demand for livestock products, timber
and fuelwood. Therefore it is reasonable to assume that incremental output is saleable; and
(f)    Import parity prices are calculated for important traded inputs such as fertilizer. The prices of
outputs not traded internationally are based on field observations and interviews with
producers in the project areas.
- 62 -



Evaluation of economic benefits
Crop and livestock production.
To capture the mutual benefits and costs of different project measures, the economic analysis of sustainable
agricultural and livestock production activities, quantifies all inputs and outputs, and estimates a net value
of production for an entire project area. The estimated incremental benefit stream is derived from
comparing the 'without' and the 'with project' net value of production. The 'without project' case assumes
a continuation of present yields and productivity of livestock. The 'with project' case reflects the gradual
improvements in yields and livestock productivity that will result from the project interventions.
By-products and intermediate products used in the fanning systems (i.e. manure, crop residuals, fodder,
etc.) are valued only so far as they replace traded products. All other by-products are quantified as they
mostly determine inter-dependence among agricultural activities at the watershed level. This is a preferable
method as it avoids double-counting of benefits and valuation of problems for intermediate and
by-products, and it integrates mutually beneficial interactions between the activities.
The project will improve productivity of 2,000 ha of winter wheat and barley. Current crop production in
the project areas is based on low input quantities over the last 8 years, which has lead to gradual mining of
soil nutrients. The project will provide local communities sustainable crop production packages which
include fertilizers, improved seeds and introduce more sustainable farmiing practices. As a result of these
interventions the average yields of cereals is expected to increase some 25% from current average levels of
2,000 kg per ha, under normal weather conditions.
The area of cropland under production in project micro-catchments varies from 20 to 60%. The project
will rehabilitate access roads and field tracks to more remote croplands which are currently prone to soil
erosion. These investments reduce the cost of access which would bring some of these previously unused
lands back into production. It is assumed that the land under crop production will increase on average 10%
as a result of these investments. The benefits from these investments are evaluated through incremental
crop output from increased cropland area.
Benefits from livestock production are evaluated through improved animal productivity as a result of
rehabilitation of natural pastures and increased production of fodder. Animal productivity in project areas
is far below the genetic potential of farm animals. The main reasons for the low animal productivity lie in
poor feeding and nutrition, husbandry and management leading to low yields, long calving interval, long
dry period (the period when milk is not produced); low fertility disposal and poor feeding of female calves.
As a result, farmers seek to generate income by increasing the livestock numbers, which has led to further
degradation of nearby natural pastures and community forests, while a large share of high elevation
meadows remain underutilized.
The project will bring some 9,500 ha of community pastures to introduce sustainable grazing management,
and finance construction of 200 stock watering points. Management activities include fertilizer spreading
on intensively grazed areas, rotational grazing, identification of zones from which grazing is excluded, and
timing of grazing to allow establishment and flowering of palatable species. In addition, the project will
improve 3,300 ha of village hay meadows and re-introduce forage legumes into crop rotations on 1,500 ha.
It is assumed that these investments will be able to close the gap in feed deficit in the project watersheds,
providing thus the basis for improved animal productivity.
The investments into improvement of pastoral resources and fodder production are treated as production
costs associated with livestock production. It is assumed that overall livestock numbers will remain
- 63 -



constant, while the average calving rates will increase by 10% (from current 50% to 60%) and lambing
rates will increase by 15% (from 60% to 75%). It is assumed that the mortality rates will be reduced from
10 to 5%. It is assumed that the milk and wool yields and animal live weight remain constant. Increased
meat and milk output is assumed to come from increased birth rates and take-off and larger share lactating
animals. Economic and ecological sustainability of lproduction activities will be achieved through adoption
of sustainable grazing management practices, monitoring of the resource use, capacity building of local
communities, and training and extension services to farm households.
The project will rehabilitate access roads and field tracks which would reduce the access cost to remote
pastures and hay meadows. These investments provide significant environmental benefits as it is expected
that local communities are more willing to move their livestock on remote mountain pastures thus
mitigating grazing pressures on nearby grasslands and forests which are currently under heavy grazing
pressures.
The project will provide investments for 1,500 bee hives as an alternative livelihood for households who are
willing to give up grazing livestock (up to 4 hives per family). The focus of bee keeping will be leguminous
pasture species endemic to the region and leguminous forage crops. It is assumed that honey comb
production will increase up to 25 percent during the project.
Forest production.
The project will plant 2,000 ha of currently tree-less lands, which were formerly under forests. Out of this
area, 300 ha of land will be reforested in protected areas, 600 ha on communal lands and 1,100 ha in other
areas. In addition, the project will rehabilitate 500 ha of existing forests in protected areas, 300 ha. of
forests on communal lands and 1,000 ha in other areas over the 5 year period (i.e. pre-comrnercial thinning,
enrichment planting, conversion of coppice to high forest, regeneration felling, and other operations).
Calculation of benefits is carried out as following:
Sustainable harvests of timber andfuelwood. The value of timber harvests is determined based on the
sustainable annual cut (SAC). The SAC is based on a long-term average increment of the timber from the
total forest area in the project region, not on the imrnediate increment of new forest plantations which can
be very low during the initial years. The economic analysis is based on the assumption that plantation of
additional forest would allow SAC to increase as the harvests will be carried out in the overmature forests
with age class distribution towards the group of 100 - 180 year old trees. The sustainable timber harvest
levels are thus based on natural increment from old productive forest stands. Sustainable timber harvest
benefits are calculated by assuming that 75% of the gross increment can in the long run be taken out as
utilizable yield, i.e. 2.4 m3/ha/year, which corresponds to the SAC.
Improvedforest productivity: The benefits from forest rehabilitation activities (i.e. thinnings, coppice
conversion, and regeneration felling) are two-fold. First, there will be immediate generation of additional
wood of lOm3 saleable sawlogs and fuelwood per ha. However, the main source of economic benefits is
increased forest productivity as a result of increased usable incremental growth per hectare; reduced losses
of wood from pests and forest fires; increased value of forests as a result of changes in tree composition
towards higher value species. Additional productivity gains will be achieved through implementation of
state and community forest management plans and procurement of modern forest management equipment.
Modem equipment and better planning of forest management works will increase harvest efficiency and
reduce wood losses. It is assumed that investments into forest rehabilitation and adoption of better
management would increase the forest productivity by 20% per hectare. The capitalized value of
improvement of forest productivity is calculated as US$96 per ha. at the discount rate of 12%, based on
timber and fuelwood production only. This is a very conservative estimate since it does not take into
account the protective function of the forest, as well as the production of non-timber products.
- 64 -



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
