- EE543
World Bank/TACIS Joint Environment
Programme
Natural Resource Management and
Poverty Reduction Project, Armenia:
Draft Environmental Assessment Report
January 2002
Environmental Resources Management
1730 K Street, NW, Suite 1300
Washington DC, 20006
Telephone +1 202 466 9090
Facsimile +1 202 466 9191
Email ermdc@erm.com
http:/ / www.erm.com



World Bank/TACIS Joint Environment
Programme
Natural Resource Management and
Poverty Reduction Project, Armenia:
Draft Environmental Assessment Report
January 2002
Reference 6536.13
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management
Approved by:
Signed:
Position:
Date:
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporating our
General Terms and Conditions of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client.
We disclaim any responsibility to the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidential to the client and we accept no
responsibility of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this
report, or any part thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on
the report at their own risk.



CONTENTS
I          INTRODUCTION                                           I
1.1       INTRODUCTION                                            1
1.2        PROJECT BACKGROUND                                     I
1.3        SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE EA                         3
1.4        STUDY APPROACH AND METHODOLOGY                         3
1.5        CONTENTS OF THIS REPORT                                4
2          INSTITUTIONAL, REGULATORYAND POLICY FRAMEWORK          6
2.1       INTRODUCTION                                            6
2.2        POLIcY FRAMEWORK                                       6
2.3        LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                         8
2.4       INSTITUTIONAL SETTING                                  10
2.5       INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION     14
3          BASELINE ENVIRONMENT                                  18
3.1       INTRODUCTION                                           18
3.2        OVERVIEW                                              18
3.3        PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT                   19
3.4        SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT                            23
4          PROJECT ALTERNATIVES                                  25
4.1        INTRODUCTION                                          25
4.2        BACKGROUND                                            25
4.3        WITH THE PROJECT                                      25
4.4        No PROJECT SCENARIO                                   26
5          PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE                    27
5.1        INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL APPROACH                     27
5.2        CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY                              27
5.3        PHASE I - INITIAL CONSULTATION                        28
5.4        PHASE 2 - FORMAL DISCLOSURE                           29
6          COMMUNITY BASED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
COMPONENT                                             31
6.1       INTRODUCTION                                           31
6.2        COMPONENT DESCRIPTION                                 31
6.3       IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS                                 33
6.4       IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS     35
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGCEMENT  WORLI) BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRCONMENTAL PROCRAM
99



6.5        ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                          40
6.6       IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT                          55
7          STATE FOREST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                      58
7.1        INTRODUCTION                                           58
7.2        BACKGROUND                                             58
7.3        COMPONENT DESCRIPTION                                  59
7.4        SITE IDENTIFICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS         61
7.5       IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS      63
7.6        ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                          67
7.7       IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT                          78
8          PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION                                           81
8.1        INTRODUCTION                                           81
8.2        COMPONENT DESCRIPTION                                  81
8.3        INTENDED IMPACTS OF THIS COMPONENT                     83
8.4        IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS                                 85
8.5       IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS      85
8.6        ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                          90
8.7        IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT                         94
9          ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION RISK MANAGEMENT                         96
9.1        INTRODUCTION                                           96
9.2       INTEGRATION AND CO-ORDINATION OF PROJECTMANAGEMENT      96
9.3        ENSURING EFFECTIVE INVOLVEMENT AT THE LOCAL LEVEL IN PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                                         96
ANNEXES
ANNEX A    MEMBERS OF THE EA TEAM
ANNEX B    LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
ANNEX C    STRUCTURE OF KEY ORGANIZATIONS
ANNEX D    PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE MINUTES
ANNEX E    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES FOR CONTRACTORS
ENvTRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
100



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
This Category B environmental assessment (EA) report zoas commissioned by the
World Bankfor the Natural Resources Managemenit and Poverty Reduction Project in
Armenia (the NRMPR project) with supportfronz the Tacis Joint Environmental
, r,;-r,i,,i (JEP). The EA report was prepared by Environmental Resources
Management (ERM).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project's development objective is to alleviate rural poverty and promote
sustainable natural resource management practices in degraded hilly and
mountainous areas of Northern Armenia in Gegharkunik and Tavoush Marzas. The
project will help preventfurther deterioration of the natural resource base (soil, water,
grasslands, forest and biodiversity) and stabilize the local economy. Key performance
indicators or measures of project effectiveness will include:
* Increased community participation in natural resource nmanagement decisions;
*  Increased crop and livestock productivity;
*  Increased extent and quality offorest and rangeland vegetative cover;
*   Increased household incomes in participating communities;
*   Implementation of protected area management plansfor Dilijan Nature Reserved
and Lake Sevan National Park; and
*   Itmproved biodiversity conservation of globally significant species.
Performnance indicators measuring progress towards achieving the biodiversity
conservation objective include: (i) implementation of landscape-level watershed
management plans linking protected areas and critical ecosystems; (ii) conversion of at
least tulo protected areas (Dilijan Nature Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park) to
effectively managed protected areas; and (iii) stabilization of key tlhreatened ecosystemls
and critical habitats in the project area.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project includes three main components which were addressed in this
environmental assessment:
*   Community Based Natural Resources Management;
*   State Forest Managemtient, and
*   Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity.
PROJECT IMPACTS
The NRMPR project objectives are to achieve a range of positive environmental and
social impacts, and thze components of the project have been designed to enhance thle
ENIIRONN2ENTAL RE>OURCFESNIANAGEhIENT      WIORLD BANK/ TACI5 JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM



positive outcomes and to also include mitigation measures for possible adverse or
negative impacts. Hence, the EA process involved a secondary assessment of possible
impacts, both positive and negative, as well as an assessment of the proposed
enhancement and mitigation measures. When possible, further enhancement measures
were identified.
The major, expected positive and potential negative impacts identified in the EA are
summarized in the boxes below. The primary major impacts are not individually
significant but have the potential to be cumulatively significant. The main mitigation
measures are increased institutional and management capacity, and the project
components incorporate these miitigation measures.
Box 1       Intended Positive Impacts
Comm       Bi" SNa.ftza          .              -l 
1    Community forest management
Increased understanding of forest conservation needs.
Biodiversity conservation of forest buffer zones, pastures and arable land.
* Establish multi purpose indigenous species in forest buffer zone.
* Reduction of pressure on pasture land.
* Provide sustainable wood and non-wood products, and alternative energy sources to
wood leading to conservation of forest habitats.
* Provide short and long-term income generating opportunities.
Promote sustainable management practices and raise environmental awareness
2    Community pasture management
* Increased food security
* Long-term income generation.
Provide short and long-term income generating opportunities.
* Stop further degradation of soil resources (forest, arable and grazing lands) leading to
increased soil fertility and a reduction in watershed sediment yield/erosion.
Promote sustainable management practices and raise environmental awareness.
3    Sustainable agricultural practices
* Increased food security
* Increased opportunities for cash or barter income.
Improved productivity will reduce pressure on marginal areas.
Halt decline in soil fertility
4    Community infrastructure and income generation
Increase cash surplus available for re-investment in sustainable agriculture practices
Increased productivity will reduce pressure on marginal areas
Increase food security
Help to realize non-timber forest values
Reduction in erosion caused by poor management of water resources
Pasture improvement leading to reduced erosion, increased fertility, increased
carrying capacity, biodiversity preservation.
5    Development of community institutions
Establishment of resource user groups and village watershed management board
Strengthening the capacity of exiting community and marz level organizations
Community awareness
State Fortst Magaemqnt.
1    Sustainable forest management practiced in selected pilot areas on state forest land
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
11



Avoid cumulative environmental impacts of forest production and rehabilitation
activities (e.g. soil erosion, sedimentation of watercourses, biodiversitv loss).
Enhance biodiversity conservation and sustainable ecosystem management in forest
and grazing lands.
Employment opportunities in road construction, workforce programs, rehabilitation
activities etc.
Alleviate the rapid degradation of forest resources.
Reduction in environmental impacts of existing road construction practices.
Carbon sequestration.
Increase contribution of forests to the state budget.
Reduction in illegal activities related to forests.
Recreational and amenity value of land increased.
2    Legal, institutional, policy and human capacities for sustainable forest management,
biodiversity conservation and poverty reduction established in Hyantar, FREC,
Ministry of Nature Protection and village councils
Legal and institutional framework for sustainable forest management established.
Institutional capacity strengthened in key institutions.
Establishment of effective monitoring systems for forest management and planning.
Legislation reformed to enable community and private sector ownership and
management of forest resources.
Alleviation of corruptive practices.
Forest products markets and prices reformed.
Forest extension services for non-state forest owners and community members
created.
Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation
1    Strengthen institutional capacity at the national level
Improved legal and regulatory framework for protected area management.
Strategic planning and integration of biodiversity into sectoral policies.
Strengthened stakeholders' institutional capacity.
Sustainable management practices developed.
Monitoring unit established and monitoring improved.
Better communication equipment and transport provided.
Environmental education implemented and environmental awareness raised.
Transboundary co-operation on protected areas with Georgia improved.
2    Strengthen the management of Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park
Protected areas at Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan Nature Reserve with
management plans and new zoning under implementation.
Enhanced management of protected areas through public-private partnerships.
Equitable sharing of financial benefits with local communities.
Revenues for sustainable management and conservation program s generated.
Stabilization of key threatened ecosystems and critical habitats in the project area.
In -situ conservation of biological resources improved.
Monitoring of key endangered species as indicators for ecosystem regeneration.
Illegal hunting and logging decreased.
Public awareness raised and community involved in biodiversitv conservation.
Increased protection of cultural and biodiversity values.
Short- and long-term income generation provided.
3     Establish basic infrastructure for park management
Short and long-term income generating opportunities provided.
Facilities for visitors, education and management improved.
In -situ conservation of biological resources improved.
Strictly protected areas better protected to reduced access.
Roads and trails improved.
Cultural heritage sites upgraded.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROCRAM
III



4    Community grant program (small grants program for community based activities in
the protected areas and their buffer zones)
* Short and long-term income generating opportunities provided.
* Equitable sharing of financial benefits with local communities.
Increase awareness of biodiversity values and involvement of communities in
biodiversity conservation.
* Further degradation of resources (forest, arable and grazing lands) mitigated.
Box 2       Primary Potential Negative Impacts
Camau      Dauled N* hu1-                             --;p* u_t'*u-4
*   Environmental impacts of construction (field track rehabilitation and gully control)
*   Increased grazing pressures on pasture from livestock herd increases due to access to credit
or other sources of funds
*   Environmental impacts related to overuse of chemical fertilizers
*   Environmental impacts of increased irrigation
*   Increased pressure on and pollution of water resources
sta*          a3nt>' -     .   .          '''L'. 
*   Environmental impacts of road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
*   Environmental impacts of felling activities (thinning, sanitary cuttings, etc)
*   Environmental activities of illegal forest activities
P r o     .  .;     .  
*   Environmental impacts of facility construction - likely minor and manageable through
improved institutional and staff capacity, monitoring and other component elements
*   Impacts of increased visitation and usage on protected area resources - long term
possibility and manageable through implementation of new protected area management
plans and improved institutional and staff capacity and monitoring
*   Environmental impacts of road and trail rehabilitation and construction - likely minor and
manageable through improved institutional and staff capacity and monitoring
Environmental impacts associated with increased economic activities - long term
possibility and manageable through implementation of new protected area
management plans and improved institutional and staff capacity and monitoring
PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE
The World Bank held an extensive series of public meetings during the project
identification and design process. The dates and locations of the meetings are listed in
the table below. In addition, a series offormal Public Consultation and Disclosure
meetings which presented the mainfindings of the EA of the NRMPR project were
held in Armenia after completion of the draft EA report. These PCD meetings are also
listed in the table below. The meetings are listed in chronological order.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
IV



Table 1     Public meetings held during project identification and design and the EA Public Consultation and Disclosure process.
Date           Event/Purpose                                         Location                     Participants
Community / Marz
WVait r,hed hii3nagement Cornp.
Rapid Rural Appraisal - Within the project preparation  Selected Villages          Project Preparation Team (community development
19Feb -        framework the main goals of application of Rapid Rural                             specialist, social specialist, natural resources specialist,
16March/2001   Appraisal method were                                                              agricultural/grazing specialist), community leaders,
reveal the potential capacities of participant communities                         community members - meetings were held in schools
find out the environmental problems of the communities                             and other public buildings and residences.
find out the watersheds' main problems and the ways to
resolve them
make micro-watersheds natural resource appraisal and
inventory
evaluate selection criteria for each community
19-23/Feb/2001 See above                                             Vardadzor, Yeranos /         See above
Gegharkunik,
27Feb-         See above                                             Khachardzan / Tavoush        See above
OlMarch/ 2001
27Feb-         See above                                             Gosh / Tavoush               Seeabove
02March/ 2001
27Feb-         See above                                             Dprabak / Gegharkunik        See above
02March/2001
5-8 March/     See above                                             Berdavan / Tavoush           See above
2001
5-9 March/     See above                                             Koghb / Tavoush              See above
2001
6-7 March      See above                                             Antaramej / Gegharkunik      See above
/2001
7-8 March /    See above                                             Kalavan / Gegharkunik        See above
E\VIRO\NEN\ AL REnOLINCULs A\AC&I\P, I       WORI D BANK / TACISJOI\I ENVIRCL\NIIN Al PROGRAM
V



Date           Event/Purpose                                         Location                    Participants
Community/ Marz
2001
8-9 March /    See above                                             Aygut / Gegharkunik         See above
2001
8-9 March /    See above                                             Aghavnavank / Tavoush       See above
2001
13/Feb/2001    See above                                             Dzoravank / Dzoravank       See above
13-16 /        See above                                             Tsakkar,Dzoragyukh,         See above
March/2001                                                           Gegharkunik / Gegharkunik
14-15 / March/ See above                                             Paravakar / Tavoush         See above
2001
Lanjaghbyur / Gegharkunik
15-16 /
March/2001
15-16/March /  See above                                             Varagavan / Tavoush         See above
2001
17-18 / March  See above                                             Tsaghkavan/ Tavoush         See above
/2001
18Apr-         Participatory Planning Workshops -                    In selected villages        PP Team / Participation specialist from PIU,
25May/2001     Hold the meeting in each community to:                                            Com.Dev.Specialist, Social Specialist, Nature resources
Carry out a complete and ranked census of the problems for                         Specialist, Agricultural/ Grazing Specialist/, All
individual households and the village as a whole,                                  community members, in some case representative from
Carry out census of the community's proposed solutions                             marz administration
(relevant activities) of these problems,
Present options menu (was prepared by PP team)
Identify relationship (overlap) between communities' priorities
and project activities proposed by PP team, and define ranked
list of activities of common interest,
Discuss in detail each solution or set of solutions for
preparation of draft management plan for given villages,
Identify those community proposals which being outside the
ENVIRONMEN IAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLDBANK/ TACISJOINTENVIRONMENIALPRCXGRAM
VI



Date           Event/Purpose                                       Location                    Participants
Community/ Marz
project mandate, are eligible for other on-going projects for
further consideration and discussion with those projects.
Study and submit proposals related to implementation of pilot
demonstration activities, as well as issues related to funding of
those activities.
18/April/2001  See above                                           Khachardzan, Axavnavanq /   See above
Tavoush
19/April/2001  Sec above                                           Gosh / Tavoush              See above
24/April/2001  See above                                           Aygut /Gegharkunik          See above
25/April/2001  See above                                           Dzoravank, Kalavan /        See above
Gegharkunik
26/April/2001  See above                                           Antaramej /Gegharkunik      See above
27/April/2001  See above                                           Dprabak /Gegharkunik        See above
02/May/2001   See above                                            Dzoragyugh, Vardadzor /     See above
Gegharkunik
03/May/2001   See above                                            Tsakkar, Yeranos / Gegharkunik See above
15/May/2001   See above                                            Paravakar /Tavoush          See above
16/May/2001   See above                                            Varagavan, Tsakhkavan /     See above
Tavoush
17/May/2001   See above                                            Koghb / Tavoush             See above
18/May/2001   See above                                            Berdavan / Tavoush          See above
25/Mav/2001   See above                                            Lanjaghbyur, Gegharkunik /  See above
Gegharkunik
02/June/2001  Presentation of main findinigs by WMC Team:          Ycrevan, Ministry of nature  WB Pre-appraisal Mission Team, PPU, Arcadis Team,
The main goal: presentation and discussion of project progress P'rotection       Representatives of the Central Staff of the Ministry of
Presentation of RRA's, PPW's results and selection criteria                      Nature Protection, including Deputy Minister, head of
Presentation of menu of options/activity budget, watershed                       Staff, heads of department / bioresources, normative-
management plans                                                                 methodology, economic, international cooperation etc./,
Presentation of legal, institutional aspects, and stakeholders                   State Environmental Inspection, FREC, VISTAA expert
B\V IKOWN,\ I AL REsOURCLS MA\ACEENIL\      W(OLD BANK / TACICJOINI ENvI Fx\NIE\I AL PKT'UXAM
VII



Date           Event/Purpose                                         Location                     Participants
Community/ Marz
Presentation of the credit scheme                                                  center, SHEN NGO, Tavoush Agricultural Support
Center, and some International organizations and
projects / ARD Inc., USDA, IFAD, Marketing Assistance
Project /,
Forestry Management Component.
27-28/Feb/2001 Training on Project Preparation: Was carry out for    Yerevan, Ministry of Nature  PPU, Independent consultants, Staff from the Ministry
The study team and some stakeholders' representatives  Protection                  of Nature Protection, NGO, "Hayantar" CJSC, FREC,
expected to be involved in the project.                                            WB and Tacis offices in Yerevan
The objective of the training was:
To give the opportunities for better understanding of the World
bank activities
To explain the context and scope of work
To provide high quality of research job
To provide preparedness of consultants from the beginning of
the project
To give opportunities for asking questions
EA Publii4$onsultaUtn and DisLosure                  .-.
26/Nov/2001    Consultation and disclosure to the public regarding the main  Village Gosh / Tavoush  Interested local stakeholders (see Annex D of EA report
findings of the EA                                                                 for listing of participants and questions and answers)
26/Nov/2001                              "                           Village Dprabak / Gegharkunik
26/Dec/2001                              "                           Village Koghb / Tavoush
Pending:                                 "                                                       To be added after completion
delayed by
winter weather
ENVIRONMENITALRE.SOURCESMANAGEMENr           WORLDBANK/ TACISJOINI ENVIRONMENIALPROGRAM
VIII



I           INTRODUCTION
1.1         INTRODUCTION
This Category B environmental assessment (EA) report was commissioned by the
World Bank for the Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction
Project in Armenia (the NRMPR project) with support from the Tacis Joint
Environmental Program (JEP). The EA report was prepared by Environmental
Resources Management (ERM).
1.2         PROJECT BACKGROUND
The NRMPR project's development objective is to alleviate rural poverty and
promote sustainable natural resource management practices in degraded hilly
and mountainous areas of Northern Armenia (see Figutre 1). The project will help
prevent further deterioration of the natural resource base (soil, water, pasture,
forest, fisheries and biodiversity) and will stabilize local incomes. The project
offers incentives for adoption of sustainable practices which are expected to
reduce pressures on environmentally sensitive areas in selected watersheds
located in Gegharkunik and Tavoush Marzas. Watershed in the context of this
project is the geographical landscape that feeds the water to a drainage line and
from which area communities within the watershed make their living, dependent
on the local natural resources. Watersheds are also referred to as river basins or
catchments. The watershed management approach is a strong, functional tool for
integrating natural resource management with the livelihoods of the residents of
a river catchment or sub-catchment.
More specifically, the project will: (a) develop and implement participatory micro-
catchment plans in selected local communities; (b) support implementation of on-
site technical packages that would promote sustainable management and
conservation of biodiversity and natural resources while generating economic
benefits for local communities; and (c) strengthen the capacity of local institutions
responsible for natural resource management and moderate conflicts between
various resource users.
The project components are inextricably linked with one another in as much that
they have the same overall objective and are based on an integrated watershed
approach. Sustainable farming and grazing practices resulting in increased crop
and livestock productivity, together with income generating opportunities and
improved forest management, will result in alleviation of rural poverty in project
locations and eventually lead to enhancement and preservation of the natural
resource base and to improved biodiversity. Forest management and biodiversity
are part and parcel of watershed management and as such are contributing to the
integrated ecosystems approach taken by the project.
ENVIRON NIFNT AL RESOULRCFS MANAC FFNT  WORLD BANK / TACILJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROG;RAM
1



|~~~~~~~~~~ -                     .*
r E-1C-E @ *' ~~~~ ;X--W '                          's  ,*  r 
I *SIE I F ;|ll ~~~~~~~~~~AZERBAIJAN._
NATIONAiL ENV-OMMEWTAL ACnoN PROGRAM
ALE,'AN -      - -----               ,' 
ISLAMC~~~~~~~~
|      r 87  |  ,,!      - B IC                                        ________________,___
| -@_ - X ~~REFt,tUC . --.. e I
|  * . ,.,   (        OF IRAN    
~~~~~~~~~FI                                                                T,  T 
Figure 1. Physical and political map of Annenia (from NEAP, 1999).
ENVIKONMENIAL RESOURCESMANAGEMENr       WORLDBANK/ TACISJOINI ENVIRONMENI AL PK0KAM
2



1.3           SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE EA
The scope of the EA encompasses an environmental assessment and an
environmental mitigation and monitoring plan as required by the Bank
operational policies. Given that the project is a natural resource management
project, the EA was based on the project preparation reports for each of the three
components (Participatory Watershed management, Forest Management, and
Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation) which were in the
final stages of preparation during the EA process.
The EA tasks as presented in the terms of reference (TOR) are presented in the
box below.
Box 1.1       EA Tasksfrom the Terms of Reference
1. Description of the Proposed Project
2. Description of the Environment
3. Legislative and Regulatory Considerations
4. Deterinitationt of thte Potential impacts of the Proposed Project
5. Pesticide lUse and Management under the Proposed Project
6. Analysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project
7. Development of Environmental Management Plan
8. Assist in Inter-Agency Co-ordination and Public/Noni Governmental Organizationt Participation
1.4           STUDYAPPROACH AND METHODOLOGY
The EA study followed the terms of reference and standard practice. The general
approach is described below followed by the methodology employed.
1.4.1         Approach
The NRMPR project objectives are to achieve a range of positive environmental
and social impacts, and the components of the project have been designed to
enhance the positive outcomes and to also include mitigation measures for
possible adverse or negative impacts. Hence, the EA process involved a
secondary assessment of possible impacts, both positive and negative, as well as
an assessment of the proposed enhancement and mitigation measures. We have
also, where possible, identified further enhancement measures.
Also, under each component we have included a section on potential risks to
successful project implementation and delivery of the project's stated social and
environmental objectives. The risks identified are mainly process management or
institutional in nature, but unless addressed within the project
design/implementation framework in a timely manner have the potential to a)
compromise the achievement of the project's stated objectives, and/or b)
compromise the relevance and efficacy of the proposed mitigation and
enhancement measures. These project or management risks are identified in the
ENVIRLONMENTAL RESOURCESMANAGEMENT       WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONNIENTALPROGRA.M
3



last section of the three project component chapters (Chapters 6, 7, and 8).
Chapter 9, Additional Recommendations for Project Risk Management,
summarizes the risks and also presents recommended measures for institutional
management of the project in Armenia.
1.4.2        Methodology
The methodology follows the World Bank's policies on environmental assessment
(OP 4.01 and related policies and guidance documents).
Available project background information including aide memoirs and draft
project preparation reports, as well as related information, such as, the National
Environmental Action Program (NEAP 1999) for Armenia, were collected and
reviewed. Several meetings were held with World Bank staff in Washington, D.C.
who were involved in the project to discuss background and potential issues. A
scoping mission to Armenia was carried out by the EA project manager and the
forestry specialist in mid August, 2001. During this mission there were extensive
liaisons with the project preparation unit (PPU) as well as a series of field trips to
the project areas with specialists involved in project preparation. In addition,
informal meetings were held with a number of stakeholders including national
ministries and villagers in the project area. Last, local consultants to support the
EA preparation were identified and interviewed and four local consultants were
selected.
Subsequently, a series of missions over a 6 week period in September and early
October 2001 by international EA specialists were carried out to Armenia. These
missions were used to conduct further fieldwork to the various sites involved in
the project, collect additional information, work with the local consultants, and to
liase with the various stakeholders including the government ministries. In
addition, the EA team were able to liase with the international consultants
working on both the watershed management and protected areas management
and biodiversity conservation components.
During the above missions, the Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan for
disseminating the results of the draft EA was developed with the local
consultants.
The ERM Team was comprised of four international and four local experts.
Annex A lists the members of the EA team.
1.5          CONTENTS OF THIS REPORT
The content and structure of the MRMPR project EA is presented herein. The
organization reflects the structure of the NRMPR project which consists of three
separate components with different specific objectives and prepared by different
project preparation consultants. The structure of the report is listed below:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
4



*  Chapter 1 presents an introduction to the EA and the NRMPR project;
*  Clapter 2 presents the background institutional, regulatory and policy
framework;
*  Chapter 3 presents the general baseline environment in Armenia;
* Chlapter 4 presents project alternatives;
* Chapter 5 presents a summary of the public consultations which took place
during project preparation and the Public Consultation and Disclosure of the
EA;
*  Chapter 6 presents the Community Based Natural Resources Management
Component of the NRMPR project including component description, positive
and negative impacts, enhancement and mitigation measures, the
environmental management plan for the component, and potential risks
related to implementation of the component;
*  Chapter 7 presents the State Forest Management Component of the NRMPR
project including component description, positive and negative impacts,
enhancement and mitigation measures, the environmental management plan
for the component, and potential risks related to implementation of the
component;
* Clhapter 8 presents the Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity
Conservation Component including component description, issues and
impacts, enhancement and mitigation measures, the environmental
management plan for the component, and potential risks related to
implementation of the component;
*  Chapter 9, Additional Recommendations for Project Implementation
Management, presents a summary of implementation risks for each of the
three components and makes recommendations for improving institutional
management of the project during implementation; and
* Chapter 10 presents a summary of conclusions and findings including a
summary of the environmental management plan for the project.
ENVIRONMNENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK / TACb1lINT EN\IRONOIENTAL PROCRAM
5



2           INSTITUTIONAL, REGULATORY AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
2.1         INTRODUCTION
This chapter addresses the current institutional, regulatory and policy framework
for environmental management in Armenia, with a particular focus on the
relevant framework for this EA. The chapter is organized as follows:
* Policy framework
* Legal and Regulatory framework
* Institutional framework
* Institutional setting for project implementation
Each section provides an overview of the current situation and lists the main
issues concerning the different frameworks. The activities defined in the three
components project descriptions are designed to address these issues. They are
highlighted here to provide a better understanding of the project background.
Additional recommendations for project risk management and improving
institutional management of the project during implementation are provided in
Chapter 9.
2.2         POLICY FRAMEWORK
2.2.1       Overview
NEAP and Lake Sevan Action Program
With financial assistance from the World Bank's Institutional Development Fund,
the Government of Armenia prepared the National Environmental Action Plan
and the Lake Sevan Action Program, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1999.
The NEAP identified Armenia's environmental goals, objectives and priority
activities to prevent further degradation of its natural resources. Key areas of
action include policy and program development, legal and regulatory reforms,
institutional strengthening and capacity building, environmental awareness and
education, ensuring effective implementation of the Action Program and
financing and co-operation with other organizations.
The Lake Sevan Action Program identifies four phases to implement a sustainable
management of the lake to provide opportunities for development for tourism
and recreation, to protect and enhance biodiversity, to improve fisheries in a
sustainable manner, to control and minimize pollution discharges, to improve
institutional arrangements to more effectively integrate all user groups within the
watershed and to restore the strategic value of Lake Sevan.
ENVIRONMENTALRESOURCESMANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
6



Biodiversity Strategy and Action Program
Armenia's strategy for biodiversity conservation, as identified in the NEAP and
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), focuses on sustainable
development of landscapes, building human capital and increasing financial
investments to achieve improvements in four key areas: (i) institutional and
community know-how in sustainable development and its enabling legal
framework; (ii) public awareness and participation; (iii) protected area network
planning and management; and (iv) safeguard flora and fauna by mainstreaming
biodiversity conservation into agriculture, forestry and other economic sectors.
Forestry Policy
The GOA declared the 21st century as "the century of Armenia's forestation". A
Forest Policy was developed in 1996 and aims to satisfy objectives related to
environmental protection, economic and rural development, and land use. A
corresponding forest strategy to meet the declared policy objectives in the medium
and long run is to make the Armenian forestry sector self-reliant, in both financial
and economic senses, thus justifying future capital investments and also relieving
offsetting the shortfalls in government support for recurrent budgets.
There are four major and interrelated strategic objectives:
* the integration of Armenian forests into the national economy;
* afforestation, regeneration and rural forestry;
* improvement of the effectiveness of the management of the forests;
* conservation and protection of the environment.
Agricultural Policy
The GoA has taken actions to liberalize the country's agriculture and to arrest the
deterioration of agricultural infrastructure. A Government Strategy for
Sustainable Agricultural Development is currently being prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture and will be presented to the Cabinet discussion in the
beginning of 2002. Specific objectives of the strategy are to: (i) provide food
security in the country; (ii) improve social conditions in the country, reduce
poverty; (iii) establish an agricultural system smoothly functioning under market
economy conditions and principles; (iv) support the development of production
and marketing of Armenian agricultural production, which will ensure the
entrance into the international market and competitiveness; and (v) increase
profits and improve livelihood of rural population. The strategy will focus on the
following: (i) agricultural policy and macroeconomics; (ii) crop production; (iii)
livestock breeding; (iv) processing and marketing of agricultural products; (iv)
financing of agriculture; (v) rural infrastructure and management.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAAGEMNENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENS IRONNMENTALPROGRAM
7



2.2.2       Main Issues
Although many relevant policies have been and are being developed over the
last 5 years, many of these are overlapping and were developed without
sufficient co-ordination between the involved agencies. In addition,
implementation of the policies is problematic due to unrealistic goal setting
and inadequate costing. Most strategies are fully dependent on availability of
international funding. The general lack of co-ordination between agencies
drafting policies could create a risk to the current project. It is important that
new policies or management plans which will be prepared under each
component will be developed in an integrated manner to prevent overlap or
contradiction.
2.3         LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.3.1       Overview
The main legislative framework for environmental management relevant to the
current project is contained in the following laws:
* Law on Principles of Environmental Protection (1991)
* Law on Specially Protected Areas (1991)
* Water Code (1992)
* Forest Code (1994)
* Law on Environmental Expertise (1995)
* Law on Payments for Nature Protection and Use of Natural Resources (1998)
* Law on Flora (1998) and Fauna (draft)
* Law on the Protection and Use of Fixed Cultural and Historic Monuments
and Environment (1998)
* Law on Lake Sevan
The table in Annex B sets out the main provisions of the laws mentioned above as
well as other relevant regulatory instruments.
Armenia is also a party to the following multilateral environmental agreements:
* Convention on Biological Diversity (1993)
* Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance (1993)
* United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (1993)
* Convention on the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage (1993)
* Convention on Combating Desertification (1997)
* Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary
Context (signed in 1997 not ratified yet)
* Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movement and Disposal
of Hazardous Wastes (1999)
* Convention on the Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents (1996)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
8



2.3.2        Main Issues
* The "Law on Environmental Expertise" is not properly implemented and does
not reflect the actual procedure which is followed. Contribution of
independent experts and NGOs is minimal and public hearings are never held.
Apart from lack of implementation, the Expertise law is also incomplete.
Assessment criteria, requirements for preliminary environmental studies and
the procedures for public hearings still have to be developed.
* The "Law on Protected Areas' does not account for the changing socio-
economic and political situation, particularly with regard to land privatization
and the establishment of the private sector. The implementing regulations
needed for each protected area are non-existent (except for Sevan National
Park for which regulations were passed this year). Clear plans for boundaries
and zoning, conservation regimes and opportunities for sustainable use are not
included, and the precise definition of what constitutes the allowed activities
in each area has not been considered. The current system is restrictive and
might benefit from a broader range of types of protected areas being
recognized.
* There are no regulations for registration and cadastre maintenance of
biodiversity, which should govern the conservation of biodiversity and ensure
the guarantee for setting up quotas for utilization of natural resources.
* Legal constraints for community level developments include lack of or
inadequate regulations for land tenure, pasture renting, taxation of non-profit
and agricultural organizations, status of farms and rehabilitation of irrigation
and other water facilities. A law on agricultural co-operatives is lacking. The
set up of water management boards which are in charge of all natural
resources under the watershed is not possible under the current legislation.
Tax exemptions, for non-for profit organizations are not regulated.
* In the Forest Code, all forests have a protecting, sanitary and health role,
therefore forest cannot be used for production. The forest may be cut only for
sanitary and care purposes. The code neglects the actual situation and the
productive role of forests in the country. Amendments to the Forest Code are
badly needed. It is necessary to have implementing legislation on forest use
adopted under Forest Code which grants the use of forests for leasing, grazing,
etc. Furthermore, the present Forest Code does not provide for private forest
land ownership or community management (providing opportunities for cash
flowing back to e.g. forest user associations). Procedures for forest preservation
services and monitoring are lacking as well. With regard to implementation of
the forestry component activities forest regulations supporting SFM activities
such as correct felling techniques, road construction, sustainable planning etc.
have to be developed before any logging activities take place.
ENV IRONMIENTAL RES0LRCH MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
9



* The Law on Rental and Regulations on Utilization of Natural Pastures, Hay
Meadows and Other Land Types has a number of problems. The leasing terms
provided are too short for sustainable pasture management, possibilities for
privatization of pastures and most of the hay meadows is not provided and
there is no pasture use control. The law should provide for an obligation for
improvement of land and its protection. Rent fees should be used for pasture
rehabilitation and improvement.
2.4         INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
2.4.1       National Level
Ministry of Nature Protection
The protection, sustainable use and regeneration of natural resources and the
improvement of the environment is the formal responsibility of the Ministry of
Nature Protection (MONP). The following departments have responsibilities of
particular importance to the project:
* Department of Flora and Fauna Protection and Specially Protected Areas
* Land Protection Department
* Water Resources Protection Department
* Environmental Policy and Scientific Education Strategy Department
* Normative Methodological Department Hazardous Substances and Waste
Management Department
The MoNP is responsible for environmental policy preparation, implementation
of nature protection policy and supervision over natural resources utilization,
development of environmental standards and norms, environmental
enforcement, monitoring the state of the environment, providing public
information and co-ordination of environmental research and public education.
In terms of biodiversity and natural resource use, the MoNP implements State
policy relating to biodiversity conservation, sustainable use and species
regeneration, and oversees environmental regulations, the development of
principles for and monitoring of biological resource use. The MoNP has
responsibility for a number of protected areas, and oversees and supervises
activities of other government agencies in relation to biological resource use. The
MoNP issues licenses for hunting and collection of medicinal plants, and there are
plans to extend the licensing system for other forms of natural resource use,
involving further regulations relating to data, appropriate collection methods and
fees. The Ministry is also responsible for inter-ministerial co-ordination and
international collaboration on this issue.
The Department of Flora and Fauna Conservation and Protected Areas of the
MoNP is the main department responsible for activities on biodiversity
conservation. The Department oversees and co-ordinates the activity of a number
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
10



of protected areas, such as Sevan National Park, Dilijan, Khosrov, Sev Lich,
Erebuni and Shikahogh State Reserves. Other responsibilities include the granting
of permits for the utilization, import and export of bio-resources, as well as for
fishing and hunting, maintenance of the Red Books, drafting of plans for the
special protected areas and co-ordination of monitoring in the bio-resources
sector.
Relevant sub-divisions of the MONP include:
*  The State Environmental Inspectorate and its 11 Regional Environmental
Inspectorates who perform the enforcement of the laws and regulations on air
and water pollution, land use, biodiversity conservation and forest protection;
*  State Environmental Expertise, body responsible for EIA;
*  Environmental Monitoring Center, responsible for air and surface water
quality monitoring;
*  Hydromet, responsible for monitoring of water flow, water balance and water
level fluctuations, organization of research in the field of environmental
pollution and weather forecasting;
*  Hyantar, Closed Joint Stock Corporation with its State Forest Enterprises;
*  Forest Research and Experimental Center (FREC) is responsible for
conducting scientific research and information collecting on forest inventory
and classification, forestry extension as well as development of
methodological guidance on forest conservation and use; focused on
traditional forestry
* Lake Sevan National Park;
* Dilijan State Reserve.
Hyantar
Hyantar is responsible for conservation, protection, reproduction and utilization
of all forests outside the protected areas. It manages the relationships between the
state and the forest utilizes and is both regulator and enforcer. A State
Procurement Agency was recently established to be responsible for wood sales.
Ministry of Agriculture
The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) is responsible for implementation of
agricultural policy and realization of agricultural production objectives,
management of state agricultural lands and development of land use schemes,
overseeing agro-processing procurement and food policy and supporting farmers
of privatized land. In addition, the MoA oversees management of agro-
biodiversity, seed-production, fish breeding farms, veterinary and plant
protection services.
State Committee on Water Managemlent
The State Committee on Water Management manages irrigation, drinking,
mineral water resources and the sewage system, registries all artesian sources and
ENVIRONMENTAL RES1URCES MANAGEMENT    WOR[ D BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONNIENTAL PROGRAM
11



owns all available water infrastructures. It develops the water use fee policy,
usage quotas for all main water users and implements investment projects in all
subordinated agencies. It is divided in a Water Supply Agency and a Drainage,
Irrigation and Management Agency who are both established as state closed joint
stock companies.
The tables in Annex C set out the full structures of the above mentioned
institutions.
2.4.2        Marz and Local Level
Armenia has 10 counties or provinces, known as Marzas, which are subdivided
into communities, Hamainks. The city of Yerevan constitutes an additional
political entity in itself. General marz administration functions include
supervising the constitutionality and legality of decisions taken by local self-
governing bodies, assuring the implementation of decrees, implementing regional
economic and social development programs, coordinating the activities of state
agencies, overall planning, organizing and providing infrastructure services, and
securing protection of state property, natural resources, and cultural heritage.
In the field of the environment the marzas:
*  participate in development of national environmental programs and make
provisions for their implementation in the marz areas
*  are responsible for enforcement of legislation in the marz,
*  support specially protected areas, natural resource utilization, and executing
measures against illegal hunting, fishing and logging,
*  co-operate with environmental NGOs,
Agricultural Support Centers have been established in all marzas under a
different World Bank project. The Centers work in close co-operation with the
MoA are provide extension services to farmers, manage information data bases
on agricultural issues, develop nurseries and distribute seeds and promote public
awareness.
The Hamainks are in charge of managing the property in their district and
resolving problems of local significance. They have significant authorities in land
management and water management. It is their responsibility for instance to
maintain the irrigation systems and assist to prevent crop and livestock diseases.
2.4.3        Main Issues
* Human capacity and financial constraints limit the environmental authority's
ability to fulfil its role, especially at the local level. The functions as well as the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROCRAM
12



prevailing attitudes of the management are based on one-way administration
and implementation from central to local level. There is a considerable need for
further training and improved management skills at all levels. Knowledge and
understanding of the market economy, modern management principles,
community participation in natural resources management and human
resources development are poor. Budget limitations and general lack of
financing is a continuous constraint to build adequate technical and
management capacity. Capacity in key areas such as environmental planning,
management and law drafting within the MoNP are weak.
* Co-operation among relevant sectoral agencies is weak, with several agencies
sharing overlapping responsibilities of resource use. Institutional co-ordination
and collaboration for sustainable natural resources management needs to be
improved and the enabling framework should be provided through legislation
and institutional set up.
* The monitoring capacity of the relevant agencies is inadequate. Monitoring
equipment is obsolete and sampling is conducted according to guidelines from
the Soviet era. Monitoring for forestry and biodiversity is performed in an ad
hoc manner and is very weak. Scientific studies within protected areas are not
well integrated into park management decisions. There is no proper
monitoring of the utilization of non-wood forest resources. Reference data is
needed to support the environmental authorities technical functions.
Management planning and zoning can not be carried out without proper
information. There are no basic rules for information management and the
existing monitoring agencies or academic institutions lack co-operation. An
information network is needed to ensure the regular exchange of information
between the management authorities and the users of the natural resources
* Generally the public awareness on the importance of biodiversity and natural
resources conservation is weak. Mistrust of government agencies, combined
with often conflicting regulations and unclear property rights have further
weakened the ability of local communities to manage their resource base on a
sustainable basis.
* The Structure of MoNP is outdated and unclear. A strategic planning process
leading to a mission statement should be carried out as suggested by the
current project. The present institutional set up for forestry management does
not provide for transparency and opportunities for change. One of the main
problems is that enforcement and utilization are the responsibility of the same
organization. Such functions should be separated. Although Hyantar is part of
the structure of the MoNP, real integration has not been accomplished so far.
In addition, the current legal status of Hvantar is not optimal for
implementation of a number of the project objectives. For example, the
proposed changes envisaging Hyantar as a purely state funded entity with
limited responsibilities for wood sales would hamper the development of a
ENVIRON'MENTAL RESOLRCES MANAGEM1ENT  WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRC1CRAM4
13



successful state enterprise managing state forest land. Hyantar's commitment
to new management attitudes and restructuring would be a pre-requisite for
successful implementation of the project. The role of the State Procurement
Agency, with respect to Hyantar has yet to be defined and might add
additional institutional problems. Last, higher management of Hyantar is very
unstable. For example, the head of Hyantar was changed at least 4 times over
the past two years.
* The Agricultural Support Centers are currently fully dependent on
international funding. The NRMPRP could provide an opportunity to
guaranteeing their sustainability after the project that currently supports them
finishes.
* The present status of Dilijan Nature Reserve, which prohibits all economic
activities within the Reserve, does not reflect the actual situation of the
protected area. Activities occurring within the limits of the existing protected
areas are not consistent with the site management objectives. A major town
with many economic activities, as well as numerous villages and major road
are currently comprised in the Reserve. A proposal for the change of its status,
possibly to a national park, is currently under discussion in parliament. Most
stakeholders support the change in status. However, the new draft zoning,
with economic, recreational and protected zones, has been proposed for the
area is based on very old maps and data. Definitions of what constitutes an
economic or recreational zone and what specific types of economic activities
would be allowed in the protected area have not been developed.
* Lake Sevan National Park suffers from a weak legal framework, lack of
financial and human resources for management, lack of co-ordination with
other regional agencies and an impoverished local population which uses the
natural resources in violation of regulations.
* Low salaries and non-payment of salaries over the last two years for forest and
protected areas staff is a serious problem leading to corruption and illegal
logging. Corruption has to be addressed through stricter law enforcement,
adoption of an efficient monitoring system which allows public involvement,
transparent and accountable administration, clear allocation of responsibilities
and access to information.
2.5         INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.5.1        Overall structure
The Ministry of Nature Protection (MoNP) will be the leading agency responsible
for project oversight and implementation the project activities in close co-
ordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and other stakeholder
agencies and beneficiary groups. Forest management and protected areas
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
14



activities will be the responsibility of the Department of Forestry (Hyantar) and
the Department of Protected Areas, respectively within the MoNP. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established in the MoNP with core technical
units which will supervise and provide technical advice for the implementation of
the project.
MOA will be directly involved in implementation of sustainable crop and
livestock production activities at the watershed level through their existing
network of Agricultural Support Centers, who will have a critical role in
dissemination of technical packages through establishing demonstration
activities, farmers training and extension. The mechanisms for coordinating the
activities of the two ministries and the two departments within MONP will be
developed during preparation. Partnerships between locally based NGOs and
society groups, research organizations and community groups would be used in
planning and implementation of community-level activities. The implementation
of the project will build on NGO experience and existing community
arrangements.
2.5.2        Project Implementation Unit
The Project Preparation Unit would be expanded and strengthened to take over
project management and implementation responsibilities. The PIU will be headed
by a full time director and will include technical and administrative staff. Its
responsibilities would include: (i) through the Project Management Board, ensure
the co-ordination and timely support of the main project stakeholders in
implementing the project; (ii) preparation of annual work plans and budget; (iii)
recruitment and management of foreign and national consultants; (iv) approve
disbursements of project funds for various activities; (v) prepare and submit to
the Bank progress reports, consolidated withdrawal applications, detailed project
account and audits; (vi) arrange procurement; (vii) undertake project monitoring
of physical and financial progress and evaluation of project impact. The PIU staff
will consist of technical and administrative staff. Organizational and functional
structure and responsibilities will be developed in detail during appraisal.
The PIU will procure services for implementation support to communities from
local NGOs which have good track records and experience in community
development. The project implementation consultant will be responsible for
providing technical support and supervise the implementation of annual
community programs at the field. In particular this will involve the supervision of
field work undertaken by contractors, technical supervision, quality control,
liaison with local governments and institutions, handling complaints, public
relations, assistance with planning and budgeting. The contracted local NGOs
will bc authorized to make limited decisions, beyond which they will seek the
PIU's clearance. This interim level of project management is justified given the
complexity of project implementation and the need for local beneficiaries,
stakeholders and contractors to accumulate experience with the project and have
ENVIRONMENTAL RENOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK/ TACIS)IINTENVIRONMFNTALPROCRAMI
15



a local point of contact. Stronger involvement of local NGOs would be valuable to
achieve desired results through building on local knowledge and capacity and
wider involvement of civil society. It would also have the effect of establishing a
project presence at local level.
Delivery of project inputs will mainly be through established institutions working
either under direct contractual terms or in formal collaboration with the project.
Inter alia these would include rural credit providers, local NGOs and society
groups involved in community development, other donor projects, and specialist
agencies.
2.5.3       Project Management Board
The Project Management Board (PMB) established for the preparation of the
project will continue functioning during project implementation. The Minister of
Nature Protection will be the Chairman of the Board. According to Armenian
regulations, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, as well
as the Staff of the Government should be represented there. However, taking into
consideration the multi-sectoral nature of the project, Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Social Welfare, State Department of Cadastre will also be represented
in the Board. Representatives of Tavoush and Gegharkunik marzas will have a
deliberative voice in the Board.
The PMB will have the following functions and responsibilities: (i) supervision
of the PIU activities; (ii) supervision of the use of financial resources; (iii) after
the approval of the Credit/Grant Agreement by the National Assembly,
discussion and approval of the annual work schedule and budget of the
project; (iv) endorsement of the project reports; (v) approval of the results of
work, services and goods procurement tenders; (vi) presentation of the
proposals to the Government of Armenia on the use of saved financial
resources (upon discussion and agreement with funding institutions); (vii)
identification of shortcomings in the reports presented by PIU and
development of measures for rectifying them, as well supervision and control
over the implementation of those measures; (viii) meeting and discussions
with the representatives of project funding institutions, and presentation of
the results of those consultation to the Government of Armenia; (ix) wrap-up
of the results of the project upon completion of the project, and presentation of
the results to the Government of Armenia.
2.5.4       Specific Implementation Structuresfor the Three Components
Community Based Natural Resource Management Component
The project implementation arrangements for planning and activity
implementation at the local level for the Community Based Natural Resource
Management Component are set out in the Guidelines for Participatory
Watershed Management, developed during preparation. The establishment of
community level institutions will be contracted out. Resources User Associations
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
16



(for water, grazing and forestry use) and Watershed Management Boards have
been planned.
Establishment of a Management Board is proposed to co-ordinate the
Government functions and project implementation. This would be a forum,
where stakeholders from all levels of administration and project management
meet four times annually in order to change views and experiences of project
implementation. The Ministries of Natural Resources Protection, Agriculture and
Finance & Economy as well as marz level contracted management units, marz
administration, Watershed Management Boards and Village Councils should
nominate their representatives to this Forum. The role of Management Forum
would be to convey feedback from local levels to central administration and vice
versa. The PIU would function as organizer of the meetings and prepare agenda
and minutes for distribution among the stakeholders.
State Forest Management Component
For the management of this component, a State Forest Management Component
Implementation Support Team (SFMCIST) is suggested within the PIU. This team
would co-ordinate project activities with the executing agencies Hyantar, FREC
and the MONP Department for Protected Areas as well as with their sub-units
and the communities, existing village structures, NGOs and the proposed Forest
Users Associations.
Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation Component
Detailed implementation structures were not yet developed for this component at
the time of preparation of this EA.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANACEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINTEN\IRONMENTALPROGRAM
17



3           BASELINE ENVIRONMENT
3.1         INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides an overview of the general environmental conditions in
Armenia relevant to this EA. The main source for the information presented in
this section was the National Environmental Action Program for Armenia,
published by the World Bank in 1999 and NEAP Working Group reports 6, Land
Resources Management, 7, Forestry and 8, Biodiversity. Additional sources
included NRMPR project preparation studies and reports.
As the working group reports and the various project preparation reports contain
extensive and detailed baseline information, we have only summarized the key
aspects relevant to the project and the project area herein. Where relevant,
additional, component specific environmental baseline information is provided in
the following chapters devoted to those components.
3.2         O VER VIEW
The Republic of Armenia is a mountainous and landlocked country with a
territory of 29,000 sq. km and a population of 3,740,000 people. More than 50% of
the population is rural and the majority of these live in poverty.
Geologically, Armenia is part of the Alpine-Himalayan fold mountain system,
and the country is predominately mountain highlands. Seventy two percent of
the country is above 1,500 m elevation, and only 24% of the land has slopes
averaging less than 3%. Armenia has a sub-tropical, continental climate
characterized by hot dry summers and cold winters. Annual precipitation ranges
from 1,000 mm in the mountains to less than 300mm in the lowlands of the Ararat
Valley. Most of the precipitation falls during April and May. Given the semi arid
climate, water is a limiting resource.
The Republic of Armenia has a total area of 29,740 km2 (2.97 million hectares),
making it the smallest of the former Soviet republics. The country is dominantly
mountainous with 72% of land above 1500 m, a maximum altitude of 4,095 m on
Mount Aragats, and only 24% of land with slopes of 30 or less. Approximately
47% of the total area is under agricultural use or grazing, and the cultivated land
is located between 600 and 2,500 m.
In spite of the relatively small size of Armenia, a diverse geology combined with
the large amplitude of relief and climatic variation associated with mountainous
terrain has given rise to a wide variety of soil types. The combination of landform,
climate and soil conditions has, in turn, given rise to a number of natural
ecosystems and a to variety of conditions which determine the use of land for
cultivation, grazing, forestry or other uses. In some cases, improper use of land
for human activities has led to environmental degradation, in the form of soil
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK/ TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
18



erosion, soil compaction, salinization, or contamination with industrial or
domestic waste. In the project area, the main forms of environmental degradation
are soil erosion, overgrazing, and deforestation.
3.3         PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
3.3.1       Land use/Land Cover
Armenia is an ancient land which has long been inhabited by man. As a result the
land cover is very much a result of anthropogenic influences. Furthermore, the
combination of rugged terrain and semi-arid climate, with rainfall tending to
occur in intense storms of short duration, creates landscape conditions highly
susceptible to erosion.
Agriculture and Land Resources
Agriculture is the dominant land use in Armenia, and approximately 47% of the
land area (1,391,000 ha) is devoted to agricultural usage. Agricultural land use is
distributed among the following categories:
*  Pasture (694,000 ha);
*  Arable or cultivated land (494,300 ha);
*  Hayfields (138,900 ha);
*  Fruit orchards and vineyards (63,800 ha); and
*  Fallow land (800 ha).
Arable land is typically located between 600 m to 2,500 m in elevation. Above
2,500 m, agricultural usage is limited to grazing and/or hay production.
Both agricultural productivity and yield have declined in Armenia since
independence, and this is in spite of Armenia's aggressive privatization program
(NEAP 1999). Reduced agricultural efficiency and sustainability may have been a
direct result of the rapid privatization in conjunction with the difficult post
independence economic transition period and resultant decline in institutional
resources and agricultural extension services. Also, since independence,
agricultural production has shifted to a subsistence bias versus the former Soviet
era export market orientation.
The NEAP identified the main land use and policy problems and issues which are
presented in the box below.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCE5 MANAGENMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRC;RANI
19



Box 3.1       Main land use and land management related problems and issues
Main Issues
* Land degradation (soil erosion and compaction, fertility decline, salinization,
alkalinization)
* Land contamination (less relevant in project area)
* Landslides, soil creep, rockslides, etc.
* Limited extension services for farmers
Main Policy Issues
* Weak land administration and regulation
*   Lack of clear policy planning framework on land use
* Inadequate legislation
* Limited awareness of rights and responsibilities by land users
* Poorly defined institutional responsibilities
These problems are further compounded by the background rates soil erosion. An
estimated 60% of the country's agricultural lands are affected by soil erosion
resulting from deforestation and poor agricultural practices including
overgrazing. Pastures proximal to villages are often under pressure from
overgrazing while more remote summer pastures in alpine meadows remain
underused. Tracks and roads into the high pastures are often poorly sited leading
to severe erosion. The farmers and herders abandon the severely degraded roads,
which continue to degrade further, and establish new tracks adjacent to the old.
Integrated land and range management is absent.
These circumstances are particularly acute in Gegharkunik and Tavoush marzas
which are the most mountainous areas of Armenia and where land resources are
under extreme pressure. These background problems have become more acute in
recent years due to the transitional economy and the war with Azerbaijan which
has resulted in a large influx of refugees to the two marzas, putting further
pressures on the resource base.
Forests
Armenia has approximately 485,000 ha of forests and woodlands, mainly in the
north (62%) and northeast (26%) of the country (NEAP 1999). About 70% is true
forests dominated by beech, oak and hornbeam. The remaining woodland
component consists of coppice forests and shrub forest, which are poorly stocked
and degraded, and pine plantations. Rates of natural regeneration and the success
of reforestation efforts have been poor, mainly due to grazing pressure.
Armenia's forests have been in decline throughout history as result of the semi-
arid climate and slow growth rate, unsustainable rates of timber harvest,
agricultural clearance and grazing pressure. The long term trend estimate is that
total forest cover declined from 25% to 10% over the last several hundred years.
In the last 10 years alone, the total forest area has declined by 10%. An important
contributing factor to the most recent deforestation was the reliance on fuel wood
as a principal source of heating and cooking during the last five years as a result
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
20



of the energy crisis. Illegal logging for timber and fuelwood remains a major issue
in the forest sector. In addition to losses of timber, wildlife, and other non-timber
forest products, deforestation and overgrazing has exacerbated the already
serious soil erosion problem. Deforestation has also resulted in a reduction in the
natural, beneficial watershed/water resource functions associated with forest
cover including reduced runoff and erosion, increased infiltration, and reduced
downstream flood frequency, especially in the mountain areas. This function
represents a non-quantified contribution to soil conservation and the security of
national water resources as well as hydro- electric generated power, particularly
in the case of Lake Sevan.
Sustainable management of forests is constrained by a poorly equipped and
trained forest administration (Hayantar). Improper forest road planning, siting,
design and maintenance has resulted in severely degraded roads and in places
slope failures of entire road sections. Poor skidding and extraction practices also
adversely impact forest quality and regeneration as well as contributing to
erosion. Management, record keeping and monitoring, and regulatory
enforcement are poor, which contributes to the serious illegal logging problem.
Furthermore, the legal and policy framework for forest management is
incomplete, and by-laws to operationalize the forest management functions of
Hyanatar are still missing.
The NEAP identified the following main forestry related problems and issues.
Box 3.2       Main forestry related problems and issues
Main Issues
* Large areas in need of reforestation
* Potential of fruit and nut trees is underutilized
*   No extension service to farmers
* Degradation of forests
* Forestry machines and equipment are worn out and outdated
   Improper road planning and construction
* Low success rate of natural regeneration and reforestation programs
Policy Issues
* Weak forest management and enforcement capacity
*   Lack of policy for management of privately owned or managed forests
* Inadequate forests resource data
* Forestry managers carry out both protection and production (conflict of interest)
* Little awareness of the need for forest conservation
* No proper monitoring of the utilization of non-wood forest resources
*   Inadequately trained staff
Biodiversity
Armenia is located in the Caucasus eco-region, one of the Global 200 Eco-regions,
which is located at the crossroads of three biogeographic provinces or biomes:
European, Central Asian, and Middle Eastern. As a result and despite its small
size, the country is characterized by a remarkable diversity in landscapes, habitat,
ENVIRONNIENTALRE5OURCES MANAGENMENT         WORLDBANK/ TALINJOINTENVIRONMENTAL PROCRAM
21



flora and wildlife. Armenia also lies in the heart of one of the principal centers of
origin of domestic crops and forage plants in Southern Caucasus, and while it
covers only 5% of the Caucasus region in area, it contains nearly all plant
communities found in the southern Caucasus and 50% of the region's floral
diversity. Armenia's agrodiversity, particularly of cereals and forage legumes is
of global significance. It hosts significant population of fauna species of high
international conservation importance (350 species of birds, 83 mammals, 53
reptiles, 8 amphibian, and 30 fish). Twelve percent of the flora and 19% of the
vertebrate fauna are included in Armenian Red Data Books. The threatened
vertebrates include mouflon (Ovis orientalis gmelinii), wild goat (Capra aegagrus),
marbled polecat (Vormela peregusna), European otter (Lutra lutra), brown bear
(Ursus arctos), manul (Felis manul), lammergeier (Gypaetus barbatus), imperial eagle
(Aquila heliaca), great bustard (Otis tarda), little bustard (Tetrax tetrax), and
Caucasian black grouse (Tetrao mlokosiwiczi). The territory of Armenia is also
located in the crossways of migratory ways of birds.
The project area includes a variety of mountain, forest, meadow and steppe
ecosystems in Gegharkunik and Tavoush marzas, which host a significant share
of the country's biodiversity resources. Specifically, forests in these districts have
a significant role in fauna conservation and creation of the transboundary wildlife
corridor between Armenia and Georgia. Two main protected areas in the
geographic area of the project are the Sevan National Park (1,500 sq.km) and
Dilijan State Preserve (280 sq.km). Lake Sevan National Park harbors a unique
alpine lake ecosystem and its littoral habitats. Dilijan National Reserve is a unique
forest ecosystem which hosts some 900 species, some of which are considered
endangered species in the southern Caucasus. The area also has significant
cultural heritage resources. Hence, it is believed that there is significant potential
for developing eco- and natural heritage tourism.
The protected area network in Armenia is fragmented and the management
effectiveness poor. There is little or no planning for conservation programs in
protected areas and neither parks or reserves are required to develop and
implement management plans. Scientific studies within protected areas are not
well integrated into park management decisions. Infrastructure maintenance is
poor due to insufficient funding. Staff wages and salaries are often lower than the
subsistence level and staff are often unpaid for extended periods lack of funds.
The degradation of globally significant biodiversity has also been caused by
increasing pressures on critical rangelands and forest habitats, which have further
isolated the existing protected areas, making the movement of wildlife
increasingly difficult. Alpine meadows in Armenia often have biodiversity of
global significance. Their conservation requires intensive management and
intervention because of the background interaction with traditional agriculture
practices (grazing and hay mowing). Forest biodiversity is subject to heavy
pressures through deforestation and overgrazing. Illegal felling threatens forest
flora and fauna as it often leads to complete removal of dominant trees which
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
22



alters the forest habitat qualities. As noted above in the section on forests,
silvicultural management is of poor quality and contributes to forest degradation
and loss of biodiversity. Finally, the population is largely unaware of the
protected areas system and communities in the vicinity often feel alienated by the
protected area program.
The NEAP identified the following main biodiversity conservation related
problems and issues.
Box 3.3       Main biodiversity conservation related problemns and issues
Main Issues
* Degradation of internationally significant biodiversity of domesticated and wild species
*   Pressure on range of habitats including forests, rangelands and wetlands
* Key habitats, especially wetlands, under-represented in existing protected areas
* Pressures on relatives of domestic crops, fruit trees and medicinal plants
. Non-point sources of pollution from fertilizers and organic and inorganic chemicals on
agricultural and forestlands
*   Point source pollution from mining plants, metal and chemical service industries
Policy Issues
* Lack of adequate legal framework
* Lack of adequate and updated information data bases
Lack of planning and operational capacity
* Lack of financial resources
* Inadequate organizational structure
* Fragmented system of protected areas
* Lack of political will to co-ordinate regional biodiversity conservation activities
* Lack of clear management guidelines for protected areas
3.4           SocIo-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
In common with many of the FSU countries in transition, but exacerbated by
special factors including the aftermath of the 1988 earthquake and the mid
nineties energy crisis, the economy of Armenia contracted in real terms by 86.5%
in the six years from 1990 to 1996. The reported per capita income for 1995-1996
was only $420-440. In 1996 Armenia's total imports were$861.5 million, and
exports were only $290.3 million. As a consequence of the economic situation, the
government's ability to adequately fund its recurrent and development activities
was dramatically curtailed compared to the soviet era, when subsidized activities
were prevalent. Although the economy has begun to recover, the government
remains critically short of financial resources.
Some 55% of the Armenian population is classified as poor. Rural poverty is
particularly evident among those living in high altitude areas such as Tavoush
and Gegharkunik. The rural economy has provided a "safety net" during the crisis
years, by absorbing the excess labor (employment in agriculture almost doubled
between 1991 and 1996). Rural communities have been able to buffer themselves
through their access to natural resources.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESoURCES MANA;EMENT          WORLD BANK / TACIS.JOINT ENVIRONNMENTAL PRLGRA.M
23



The primary activity of approximately 70 percent of rural households in the
project area is subsistence farming with small amounts of agricultural surplus
bartered in local markets. The most important source of income (including self-
consumption, cash, barter and processing) is crop agriculture and only about 10%
of the population engage in cash sale of their agricultural production.
Remittances, pensions and day labor (other income) provide primary source of
cash to buy goods and services. The majority of farmers are cash constrained and
are unable to invests in their land and pasture. This situation is likely to lead to a
gradual decent into poverty once productive natural assets are over-exploited.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
24



4           PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
4.1         INTRODUCTION
The NRMPR project has been designed to improve natural resource management
and reduce rural poverty in Armenia. A natural resource management project of
this type does not lend itself to conventional alternative analysis given its three
components and the multifaceted nature of each. Hence, this alternative analysis
addresses only two possibilities, with the project or without the project.
4.2         BACKGROUND
Since the collapse and dissolution of the Former Soviet Union, Armenia has
suffered a number of serious setbacks which have led to the impoverishment of
many rural communities, especially the remoter of these as in the project areas.
Not least of these setbacks has been the collapse of industries which provided
employment together with the collapse of market infrastructure, rural
infrastructure and reduced overall purchasing power of the population.
Thrust into such a situation, rural populations have had little choice but to resort
to exploiting their natural resource base for their survival and subsistence as,
generally, it is available at little or no cost: in other words, a virtually free good.
This is manifested in extensive low-input/low-output crop and animal
production leading to inappropriate cultivation practices, and overgrazing of
pastures, especially those closer to the viUage or homestead. Use of hardwood
trees for fuel, due either to the cost or unavailability of alternatives, is also
exerting pressure on forests resulting in reduced ground cover and water
absorption. Generally speaking, the poorer the population, the more dependent
they are on the natural resources, a situation which demonstrates a direct link
between poverty and environmental degradation.
Land use regulations are still embryonic in Armenia and the capacity to enforce
them is extremely limited. Thus, rural communities have had almost unlimited
access to natural resources, i.e. private use of common resources, which has led in
very many instances to severe degradation of forests, pastures and soil erosion
with the consequent loss of habitat for indigenous flora and fauna. It can,
therefore, be seen that this process is an accelerating downward spiral of
increasing poverty resulting in increasing resource degradation resulting in
increased poverty etc. etc. If this continues unchecked, the time will come when
the natural resource is unable to sustain any form of life, including humans.
4.3          WITH THE PROJECT
In order to reverse the degradation of Armenia's rural natural resource base, it
would appear imperative that the problems of poverty are addressed which in
ENVIRONMENTAL RES)URCES MANAGEMENr    WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINTENVIRONM1ENTALPRPC)RAM
25



turn will lead to a steady reduction in pressure on the natural resources until the
situation is reached where exploitation and regeneration are in balance. In this
context, the aims and objectives of the project, alleviating poverty through the
improved and sustainable use of natural resources, provides a pilot program to
begin to reverse the current trend.
4.4           NO PROJECT SCENARIO
Without the project it would appear likely that the existing negative trends in
critical natural resources, agricultural productivity, and rural poverty would
continue and worsen as the resource base is further degraded. In the extreme
case, the natural resource base may be degraded to such a degree that
desertification is triggered, resulting in abandonment of the rural areas and
migration of people to urban areas such as Yerevan, creating problems of even
greater magnitude. If such a point is reached, very costly interventions will be
required to reverse the trend.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
26



5           PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE
5.1         INTRODUCTIONAND GENERAL APPROACH
According to the World Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01), affected groups and NGOs must be consulted as part of
the environmental assessment process, and the draft EIA must be disclosed to the
public for review and comment prior to finalizing the report. In order to ensure
that this is carried out in a systematic way and that that the views and interests of
all project stakeholders are taken into account, a Public Consultation and
Disclosure Plan (PCDP) was prepared for the project (outlined below).
The objective of the PCDP was to ensure that all stakeholders and interested
parties were fully informed of the environmental assessment process and that
they had the opportunity to voice their concerns and opinions on environmental
issues and management during the EIA preparation process.
Consultation has been carried out at two levels:
* At the national level: interested government bodies, NGOs, and other
interested members of civil society were consulted during the EIA preparation
process. Additionally, the draft EIA and non-technical summary was disclosed
such that the above stakeholders could obtain the document and submit
comments.
* At the local level: government authorities, water users associations, potentially
affected nearby villagers, and other interested stakeholders were consulted in
some depth during the EIA preparation phase. Public hearings were held at
the local level in the second phase of consultation when the draft EIA report
was disclosed and discussed.
5.2         CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY
Public consultation took place in two phases. Firstly, consultation during the EIA
preparation process helped to identify key environmental issues and provide
information on stakeholders' concerns about and views of potential
environmental impacts. Secondly, consultation at the draft EIA stage allowed
stakeholders to review findings and comment on proposed mitigation and
management options.
Plase One - EA Preparation: As discussed in the introduction, the main objectives
of this project are environmental and social in nature, and the project was
designed in response to needs identified during comprehensive public
consultation conducted at the inception of project design. As a result, the EA team
did not visit all of the villages. Furthermore, consultation was carried out with
ENvIRONNIENTAL REBOURCEL MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVWIRONMENTAL PR(XIRAM
27



local and regional government authorities and NGOs active in the relevant local
areas.
Therefore, within the context of the EA preparation no further formal village level
consultation took place, however, meetings were held with local government
officials and village representatives in five villages.
At the national level, consultation took place on both a technical level and a
general project input level in Yerevan. Technical staff working on the EA had
meetings with government personnel, NGOs, academia, international program
representatives and other experts. At the same time, consultation with a wider
interested audience was undertaken as a method of disclosing information about
the project and the EA, and to gather feedback on either the process or specific
aspects of the project.
Phase Two - Disclosure and Discussion of Draft EA Report: After the draft EIA was
completed, incorporating World Bank comments, the non-technical summary was
translated into Armenian and with the assistance of the World Bank/PIC, was
made widely available through government and non-government networks at the
national and local level. Full copies of the EIA text, in English, were circulated
along with the translated non-technical summary to key stakeholders.
Additionally, a series of public meetings (in the two Marza) were held, and
advertised to the public at large in order to disclose the draft EA and the
proposed environmental management plan. The minutes of the public meetings
held are summarized in Annex D. Last, the Final EA report was translated into
Armenian to allow review by the Department of Ecological Expertise within the
MoNP as required under Armenian EA regulations.
5.3          PHASE 1 - INITIAL CONSULTATION
5.3.1        Identification of Key Stakeholders
Key stakeholders were identified at the international, national and local levels
and are shown in Box 5.1.
Box 5.1      Key Stakeholders
National
Department of Nature Protection
Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Health
NGOs
United States Department for Agriculture
Hyantar
Regional
Village Councils
NGOs
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
28



5.3.2        Local Level Issues: Derivedfrom Local Attitudes and Opinion
In addition to the public consultation carried out as part of EA preparation
meetings, interviews were held with representatives of Hyantar and members of
several village councils. In addition, some informal conversations took place
between the EA team and local villagers.
* Expectations. Many villages have received multiple groups of consultants and
project representatives; this combined with the extensive consultation process
has produced very high levels of expectations.
* Misunderstanding of project impacts. The changes in project concept, particularly
in the Community Based Natural Resources Management component, since
the last round of formal consultation created the potential for
misunderstanding of this project amongst the village beneficiaries. The project
development processes (RRAs and PPWs) at the village level gave rise to an
understanding that this project would be principally centered around the
provision of credit.
* Need for training and demonstration. Villagers expressed a strong desire
primarily for credit to fund agricultural inputs but in addition for assistance
with market development and irrigation scheme construction. No villages
identified training or demonstration as a need during the project consultation,
and therefore there may be a lack of support for interventions based around
these activities.
* Different levels of need. There are radically different levels of need for
demonstration in the different project areas. Whereas certain populations who
recently arrived from Azerbaijan were are not formerly farmers, the majority
of the local populations were involved in Soviet Style farming and therefore
have a more sophisticated understanding of farming practices. Furthermore,
there are high numbers of university educated scientists and agronomists in
most of the villages.
5.4          PHASE 2 - FORMAL DISCLOSURE
5.4.1        Disclosure of the EIA and Non-Technical Summary
As stated above, the non-technical summary of the draft EA report (in Armenian)
was disclosed in full to an identified number of key stakeholders, including
relevant government agencies and departments, NGOs, and representatives of
related projects. Copies of the full draft EA report, in English, was also available
for review at the PIU and Hyantar offices in Yerevan and the local marz offices of
the Ministry of Nature Protection. In addition, copies of the non-technical
summary in Armenian, was made available at all of the aforementioned locations
as well as village council offices and schools in all villages included in the project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOL RCES MANA(.EMENT   WORID BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRCXIR,M
29



The non-technical summary was made available for two weeks prior to the public
disclosure meetings and remained available for a period of not less than 45 days.
5.4.2         Organization of Public Hearings
Based on what was learned during the first phase of consultation, public
disclosure meetings were held with two meetings in each marza. The villages
were Gosh and Koghb in Tavoush, and Dprabak and Dzoragugh (1) in
Gegharkunik.
The villages were selected for the following reasons:
* firstly, to provide a geographical spread over the two Marza and thus to
reduce travel difficulties; and
* secondly, to include a range of villages in terms of the number of components
of the project which will affect them.
The public disclosure meetings were advertised in the newspaper and on radio,
and notices were posted at government offices, schools and libraries. Transport to
the meeting locations was arranged for those without transport. The main
objectives of the meetings were to disclose the findings of the EA and the key
elements of the EMP as required under World Bank policy. The minutes of the
meetings held (including persons in attendance, questions and answers) are
presented in Annex D.
(1) At the time of the release of this 30 January edition of the Final EA Report. the PCD meeting in Dzoragugh had been delayed
due to heavy snows; this meeting will be carried out as soon as conditions permit and results will be added to a final edition.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
30



6           COMMUNITY BASED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
6.1         INTRODUCTION
This chapter comprises the EA of the Community Based Natural Resource
Management Component of the NRMPR project in Armenia. The chapter is
organized as follows:
*  Section 6.2 Component description;
* Section 6.3 Implementation process;
*  Section 6.4 Identification of Environmental and Social Impacts;
* Section 6.5 Environmental Management Plan (for component); and
* Section 6.6 Implementation Risk Assessment (for component).
6.2         COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
The Community Based Natural Resource Management Component of the project
aims to introduce new agricultural methods to ensure the sustainable use of soil
and pasture resources for both crop and livestock production. In addition, the
project aims to assist farmers to access credit and markets in order to generate
cash income and reduce poverty.
The intervention unit for this component will be the micro-watershed: Micro-
watershed management plans will be developed by participating communities,
these plans will them dictate which activities are selected from a menul of options
that covers the following activity groups:
* community forest management;
* community pasture management;
* sustainable agricultural practices; and
* community infrastructure and income generation.
In addition, an activity group entitled development of community institutions will be
implemented in each micro-watershed in order to provide the local level
institutional framework for project implementation.
For each of the five activity groups, a set of activities have been developed (see
Box 6.1). However, the precise activities selected for each micro-catchment will
depend upon the outcome of the participatory development of the micro-
watershed management plans.
ENVIRONNMENTAL REVOURCES MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK / TACISJOINTENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
31



Box 6.1       Menu of Options
Sub-Components
1,                '    !,'4un                                            -v
L.a   Plantation of multi-purpose bush and trees
L.b   Enrichment planting & sustainable use of non-wood forest products
l.c   Improvement and rehabilitation of forest pastures
L.d   Sustainable pig-beech-oak silvo agro forestry system
l.e   Demonstration of biogas production systems
-2 Coa       ndjjsw        sgm ;          -.:. -            ; T_ -      4
2.a   Construction of stock watering points in high summer pastures
2.b   Sustainable management of high summer pastures
2.c   Improvement and rehabilitation of village hay meadows
2.d   Re-introduction of forage legumes into crop rotations
3.a   Demonstration and training for sustainable production of winter wheat and spring barley
3.b   Demonstration and training for sustainable production of food and seed potato
3.c   Demonstration and training in orchard management and establishment
3.d   Demonstration and training for sustainable production of vegetables
3.e   Demonstration and training for sustainable cattle and sheep production
4.a   Demonstration and training in sustainable irrigation management
4.b   Restoration of existing field tracks
4.c   Stabilization of areas at risk from land slides and rehabilitation of gully erosion
4.d   Demonstration and training in milk handling for processing
4.e   Demonstration and training in fruit and non-timber forest products processing and drying
5p                   - --------  -   -   -   -  'I-  .        g~.
5.a   Establishment of resource user groups
5.b   Strengthening the capacity of existing community and marz level organizations
5.c   Community awareness
While the activities within each of the four categories vary, their primary
objectives in terms of positive environmental and social impacts are similar. These
objectives are summarized in Box 6.2.
Box 6.2        Summary of intended positive environmental and social impacts
1  Cam    alt7 foresjni3U .l i FB
Increased understanding of forest conservation needs.
Biodiversity conservation of forest buffer zones, pastures and arable land.
Establish multi purpose indigenous species in forest buffer zone.
Reduction of pressure on pasture land.
Provide sustainable wood and non-wood products, and alternative energy sources to
wood leading to conservation of forest habitats.
Provide short and long-term income generating opportunities.
Promote sustainable management practices and raise environmental awareness
2   Commiidty pasture nunagement                -s-:-,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
32



* Increased food security
* Long-term income generation.
* Provide short and long-term income generating opportunities.
* Stop further degradation of soil resources (forest, arable and grazing lands) leading to
increased soil fertility and a reduction in watershed sediment yield/erosion.
* Promote sustainable management practices and raise environmental awareness.
3   Sustainable agricultunl practices
* Increased food security
* Increased opportunities for cash or barter income.
* Improved productivity will reduce pressure on marginal areas.
* Halt decline in soil fertility
4   Community infrastructture and income generation
* Increase cash surplus available for re-investment in sustainable agriculture practices
Increased productivity will reduce pressure on marginal areas
* Increase food security
* Help to realize non-timber forest values
Reduction in erosion caused by poor management of water resources
* Pasture improvement leading to reduced erosion, increased fertility, increased carrying
capacity, biodiversity preservation.
5   Development of community institutions
Establishment of resource user groups
* Strengthening the capacity of exiting community and marz level organizations
* Community awareness
The project will also support a workfare (1) program, which will pay poor
community members in cash, for the labor necessary to support investments in
community infrastructure, nature protection and conservation.
Eight micro watersheds (2) have been selected for the pilot phase of this project; it
is currently envisaged that this will be expanded to 40 during the project's
lifetime.
6.3              IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
In each of the forty micro-watersheds the same project process will be followed(3).
The main attributes of this process are depicted in Figure 6.1 and outlined
subsequently.
(1) The precise details of this program, relating to the mechanisms of payment and institutional responsibilities had yet to be
worked out at the time ot writing.
(2) The micro-watershed concept within the confines of this project reflects the fact that all of the eight pilot project sites share
common water resources, rather than strictly concurring to the theoretical hydrological delineation watershed definition.
(3) In the eight pilot watersheds the process has reached the end of the second stage: selection of activities from Menu of Optioas.
ENVIRONMENTAL REr)s RCES MANAG:EMENT                WORLD BANK/ TACIIJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
33



Figure 6.1     Watershed Component Project Process
Participatory
Planning Workshops
Selection of
Activities from Menu
of Options
Implementation of    Development of      Environmental    Project Monitoring
Menu of Options    User Associations    Education and       and Review
activities                             Training
Project Evaluation
Participatory Planning Workshops (Completed for the 8 pilot micro-watersheds)
Workshops are held in each of the villages pre-selected by the project team. The
aim of these workshops is to assist the villagers to identify needs within their own
micro-watershed.
Selection of Activities from Menu of Options (Completedfor the 8 pilot micro-watersheds)
Using the combined assessment of need from each village in the micro-watershed,
the project preparation consultants then selects the most appropriate set of
activities from the menu of options (See figure 6.1, above).
Implementation of Menu of Options activities
The menu of options activities will be implemented principally by the following
actors:
* the PIU - the PIU will set up two Marz level PIUs to deal with the
implementation of the project, these will either be newly formed entities or
contracted local NGOs;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
34



* other international program s - several of the activities, particularly those relating
to irrigation and marketing, will be implemented by other international
programs. In the case of irrigation it is anticipated that IFAD will carry out the
implementation, while in the case of the marketing activities USAID and
USDA are highlighted as potential implementation partners;
* credit institutions - while the project will not be providing credit directly, it will
be assisting farmers to access credit sources available from both international
and national institutions; and
* private sub-contractors - the construction and/or repair of community
infrastructure will be carried out by private sub-contractors after a competitive
bidding process.
Development of User Associations
During the implementation period, a key objective is to assist villagers to form
user associations, primarily for water and grazing management. These user
groups shall hold resource property rights, and in return will be responsible for
associated maintenance activities. In general village activities will be coordinated
by, the Village Council.
Environmental Education and Training
All villagers involved in this component will take part in environmental
awareness raising courses.
Project Monitoring and Review
Both environmental and social indicator monitoring will be carried out during the
project lifecycle. In addition, mid-term and final reviews will be carried out.
Five categories of indicators have been selected: social, environmental,
sustainability, input and output. A draft list of indicators has been drawn up in
the interim report, however, the exact timetable and assignation of the
responsibility for this monitoring has not yet been devised
6.4          IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
The primary objectives and intended beneficial impacts of this component are
environmental and social in nature, and have been summarized above in Box 6.2.
The objective of this environmental assessment is not to re-identify or analyze
those impacts, but to identify issues within the main project activities which may
lead to negative environmental or social impacts, or instances where identified
positive impacts could be enhanced.
This section has been divided into several sub-sections: firstly, an outline of
potential negative impacts is given (these in turn have been divided into two
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT      WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRO1GRAM
35



categories: primary and secondary); and secondly, those positive impacts, for
which enhancement measures will subsequently be recommended, are outlined.
6.4.1         Primary Potential Negative Impacts
Impacts are classed as being primary for one of the following reasons:
* individually of primary concern - these are impacts which are of concern as
potential one-off significance; and
* cumulatively of primary concern - these are impacts which present concern in
terms of the cumulative impact of many actions.
In the context of the Community Based Natural Resource Management
Component all of the eight impacts identified fall into the later cumulative
category.
Each of these eight impacts are outlined below, in addition to an overview of the
impact a table is included covering the following information:
* contributing sub-components - these are the sub-component activities (as
outlined in Box 6.1: Menu of Options) which, to some extent, contribute to the
impact identified.
* mitigating sub-components - the project has been designed in such a way that
some sub-components already aim to mitigate the impact identified(1), these
sub-components are also identified.
Inipact 1: Eniriror,mental imnpacts of -0ostruction
Potential key environmental impacts of construction include: erosion and
sedimentation, water quality impacts and soil pollution, noise, dust and air
pollution, damage to existing installations, worker injuries, disruption to local
residents and disruption of agricultural activities. Where construction activities
necessitate the setting-up of temporary construction yards, there is a slight risk of
permanent alteration of land caused by improper management of fuels or, topsoil
compaction from vehicles.
Contributing Sub-Components         Mitigating Sub-Components
4.b   Restoration of existing field tracks  None
4.c   Stabilization of areas at risk from
land slides and rehabilitation of
gully erosion control.
(1) These impacts have been included in this assessment because the ERM team believes that further measures, over and above
the mitigating sub-components, are necessary to further ensure that the potential negative impacts do not occur.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCESMANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACOS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
36



Impact 2 lntreti7edo :rLin1S prrtsnrt oni pa,i tires
Despite the significantly lower livestock numbers currently seen in the 2 marza
compared with the levels present in the Soviet era, the current condition of
pastures is poor. Therefore increased access to credit, provided as part of the
activity 4.d Demonstration and training in milk iandlingfor processing, has the
potential to increase the number of animals in the watershed, which would lead
to an increase in pressure on land, particularly pastures. While the sustainable
practices to be demonstrated, and the conservative estimates of pasture
production (to minimize the risk of overgrazing), will mitigate this impact, it is
essential that the pasture management plans (included as part of the overall
micro-watershed management plans) are developed successfully to ensure that
the increased pressure does not exacerbate the situation prior to the increase in
pasture quality expected after the replication of the demonstration activities.
Additionally, it is critical that the pasture user-associations, designed to reduce
the risk of common property degradation, are established and operational.
It is important to note that the maximum carrying capacities calculated in the
watershed management plans produced as part of the final interim report for this
component, use yields that are 2 or 3 times greater than the yields currently being
produced. Any carrying capacities calculated are therefore gross overestimates of
the current carrying capacity of the watersheds.
Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
4.d  Demonstration and training in  3.e  Demonstration and training for sustainable
milk handling for processing      cattle and sheep production
Izjimpact 3: Enz',ron,en'lrIZ tmpait-; v0 1rtrllur u I.t
Many of the demonstration activities promote the use of chemical fertilizers. This
is advocated on the grounds that the soils in participating villages have had
limited nitrogen fertilizer and no phosphate fertilizer during the past 10 years and
thus phosphorus deficiencies are starting to appear as the soil reserve is mined
and fully depleted. However, the application of chemical fertilizers, combined
with an increase in access to credit, leads to the conclusion that the level of
application will increase during the course of the project. Since there is little
recent history of expertise with fertilizer usage, this could lead to over-application
and subsequent pollution of receiving surface waters (possibly leading to
eutrophication problems downstream) and/or groundwater bodies (for example,
nitrate pollution of groundwater supplies is a common problem in agricultural
areas in Western Europe). Moreover, where the water table is close to the surface
there is the potential issue of contamination of local wells used for domestic
supply.
ENV IRONMENTAL REuRcES  MANAGEMENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENV]RONKIENTAL PRC GRANI
37



Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
2.c  Improvement and rehabilitation of  3.a  Demonstration and training for sustainable
village hay meadows                production of winter wheat and spring
barley.
2.b  Sustainable management of high  3.b  Demonstration and training for sustainable
summer pastures                    production of food and seed potato.
Impact 4: Environmnental inipac;t of increased irrigatiokn
The increased irrigation included in this project refers solely to tertiary drainage
systems. As a result, the principal environmental impacts relate to the poor
management of water application leading to nutrient leaching, waterlogging and
salinization. Where schemes are built near housing, there is also a potential for
localized increases in water-borne and water-related diseases. Other impacts
relate to the increased need for fertilizers, See Impact 3. It is therefore essential that
the demonstration projects and promotion of best management practices provide
the appropriate training before IFAD sponsored construction commences.
Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
4.a  Agreement with IFAD regarding  4.a  Demonstration and training in sustainable
irigation rehabilitation           irrigation management
Impact 5: Increased pressure oen andl pollition of water resoiurces
The menu of options includes sub-components that risk impact upon water
resources both in terms of quantity (e.g. increased irrigation) and quality (e.g.
increased use of fertilizers). While other sub-components should mitigate these
impacts (e.g. promotion of best management practice, demonstration and training
in sustainable irrigation management), it is recommended that further measures
are necessary to respond to the potential negative, cumulative impacts of these
sub-components.
Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
All sub-components including some  4.a  Demonstration and training in sustainable
agricultural activity.             irrigation management
6.4.2         Secondary Potential Negative Impacts
The secondary potential negative impacts are those that are not of primary
concem either individually or cumulatively, but for which it is recommended
certain mitigation measures are carried out to prevent their occurrence.
The secondary impacts are outlined in Box 6.3 and have been categorized
according to the menu of options sub-component to which they are relevant.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         WORLD BANK / TAcISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
38



Box 6.3         Secondary potential negative imnpacts
Negative Impact
1. Conmnunity forest management
I ai Plant.atln o:1 rmnirri-pUirpose bud,h and trees
* Increased pressure on localized water resource as a result of tree water demand
I b Enrichnicnt planming & 4ustainabltr use of non-t,occd torest products
o Further encroachment into forest areas, potentially encouraging non-sustainable
harvesting of non-wood forest products
I d  Sustainable pig beecho03k siR o-ps-toral agroforestrv s% stem
* Further encroachment into forest areas, potentially encouraging non-sustainable
harvesting of non-wood forest products
I.e Demon,tration ot bio--gas production s% stvrns
* Increasing economic disparity
* Impacts arising from potential gas explosions, including health and economic loss.
* Liquid manure spillages, leading to water course pollution.
2     Community pasture management
,.a   Construction cf stock wvaterng points in high summer pasruxes
* Localized waterlogging at watering point, others may occur as a result of deliberate
breaking of the pipes to access the water supply on-route.
* Localized increase grazing pressure on those areas provided with watering points
2.b   Sustainable nianagrement of high uunimer pastures
Increased economic disparity as the very poor may not have enough stock to warrant
the journey to the high pastures or they may not be able to make use of privately
owned high pastures owing to the cost of rental.
2.c lmpro% enient and rehabilaUtiu'n ot village hasr meadokw s
* Negative impacts associated with over or incorrect use of fertilizers.
2 d Reintroduchon cI tlorige legumles into crop rotations
* Initial economic impact as a result of the lower market value of alfalfa, in comparison
to potatoes.
3.    Sustainable agricultural practices
3a    Demonetrabon & traming tor suztuimnblo product;onot ci  inter % heat and spnng barley
*  Reduces pressure on pasture biodiversity and establishes management for sustainable
use.
3.b   Demon;tran,'n & iTainnlg tor -u,tainabli prc.du.:non of tood and seed potato
* Persistence of potato diseases as a result of local seed potato production and use of
pesticides and negative health and environmental impacts as a result of increased
need for pesticides.
4. Commnunity infTastructure and income generation
4 c   Stabilization ot areas at risk from land shdes and rehabilttat,on ct gull erosi.on control
* Increased erosion due to over-topping of Gabon's
* Increased on-farm land erosion at point of gully discharge (1)
(1) The budget for the construction of culverts to rehabilitate the tracks covers a Sm pipe, which will only bridge the width of the
track itself. Where the tracks directly border agricultural land there is a risk that at the point of discharge new points of
incre.ased erosion are created
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCEs MAN ACENIENT             WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENrAL PRECXRAM
39



6.4.3        Positive Impacts
There are two positive impacts of the project, outlined below, which should be
highlighted as the ERM team believe that there is significant scope to enhance
them.
ProvisionL ofuvod ad tree products
Trees are to be planted both to provide environmental objectives and socio-
economic objectives. In order to ensure that the environmental benefits are not
jeopardized for the socio-economic benefits, recommendations regarding
sustainable management will be made.
Corlnninitw Forest Management
The transfer of former Kolchoz and Sovchoz forest land to villages along with the
preparation of participatory community forest and pasture management plans
will provide an opportunity for communities to realize to a greater extent the full
value of the forest resource through forestry and agro-forestry activities.
Furthermore, the villages will ultimately benefit from the indirect environmental
and watershed protection benefits that forests provide. In order to ensure that the
maximum benefits can be realized, a community forest management plan will be
developed but further recommendations have also been made in the Community
Management Plan below.
Incomtie genera tion
Many of the sub-components contain activities to be included in the work fare
program; it is recommended that these opportunities should be expanded to
include many of the activities required for environmental monitoring and
management.
6.5         ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The environmental management plan can be found in Table 6.1. For all impacts
the management plan incorporates:
*  institutional roles and responsibilities in relation to each of the mitigation and
monitoring measures;
  any additional training which will be required to successfully undertake the
measures described;
*  timing in relation to the project process; and
*  provisional cost estimates (including any required training).
For each of the menu of options sub-components, both key and secondary negative
impacts are listed, and, where appropriate, the positive impacts to be enhanced.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
40



In order for the reader to be able to quickly identify the type of impacts referred
to, the key negative impacts are indicated by an N, the secondary negative
impacts by an n and positive impacts with enhancement measures by a P.
In the case of the primary negative impacts and the positive impacts, individual
management plans have been worked out in detail for each issue. These are
referenced in the body of the table and described in detail in a series of stand-
alone boxes located at the end of the table.
In the case of the secondary impacts, the mitigation measures are described in the
body of the table.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESoURCESMANAGPEOENT       WORLD BANK/ TAUIS1OINTENVIRONMENIALPRCXRAMI
41



Table 6.1 Community based natural resources management component environmental management plan
Impact                          Mitigation/ Best Practice                   Institutional   Monitoring     Training      Timing        Total Cost'
Responsibility
IT' C ibjmmpulttafarm6 -    nmut,  Mt N.v -'__ "I T                                                                                         ,," N   pit_ '
1 a  Plantation of multipurpose bush and trees
Increased pressure on     n     Water resources management plan: See Section  Marz level PILU  Water quality  N/A        on-going          low
localized water resource as a   6.5.7                                       and WMBs        and quantity
result of tree water demand                                                                 monitoring.
Loss of area for cultivation  n  Area encircled by tree borders should be   Marz level PIU  N/A            N/A           design           none
maximized.
Provide wood and non-     P     Production of wood and non-wood products    Marz level PIU  Annual         Farmers to    on-going        medium
wood products                   should be in line with the Community Forest                 monitoring of  receive
Management plans, see Section 6.5.9.                       harvest levels  sustainable
Sustainable agroforestry harvesting limits: See             by village     forestry and
Section 6.5.10.                                            inspectors.     agroforestry
training
I b  Enrichnlent planting & sustainable use oi non-%vood torest producLs
Further encroachment into  n    In protected areas this activity should only take  Marz level PIU  N/A     Forest        design            low
forest areas, potentially       place in forest buffer zones.                                              conservation
encouraging non-                                                                                           training
sustainable harvesting of                                                                                  should be
non-wood forest products                                                                                   given to all
villagers
taking part.
Income generation.        P     Planting and care of these products should be  PIU          none           none          design           none
included in the workfare program: See Section
6.5.11
1.d  Sustainable pig-beech-oak sih o-pastoral agrolorestrn sstern
(I) Costs unider $1,00D, for the five year project, are classified as low, costs between $1,000 and $10,000 for the five year project period are classified as medium and costs over $10,000, for the five year period, are classified as
high,
ENVIRON:MVNVAi RvlSuRcvsMANAGLMENT             WORLDBANK/ TACISIOINrENVIRONMENTALPROGRAM
42



Impact                         Mitigation / Best Practice                 Institutional  Monitoring     Training      Timing        Total Cost,
Responsibility
Further encroachment into  n   In protected areas this activity should only take  Marz level PIU  N/A   Forest        design           low
forest areas, potentially      place in forest buffer zones.                                            conservation
encouraging non-                                                                                        training
sustainable harvesting of                                                                               should be
non-wood forest products                                                                                given to all
villagers
taking part.
i.e  DenIons1IatIon .f FLO*ga. prod uctlor ; stems
Impacts arising from     n     Systems should be constructed and maintained  Marz level PIU  Safety     Safety        design / on-     low
potential gas explosions,      to avoid the potential risks.                             inspections (to  training to be  going
including health and                                                                     be carried out  given to all
economic loss.                                                                           by National Gas householders
Authority)     involved.
Liquid manure spillages,  n    Systems should not be constructed within 50  Marz level PIU  N/A         N/A           design          none
leading to water course        meters of a water course. Secondary containment
pollution.                     should be provided, at least double the volume
of the primary storage.
2    Communit) pasture management
2 a  C.:1irus uinlt cOI 9tOck v.atelrnig pomnri in high Sumnletr paL'ureA
Environmental impacts    N     Construction management plan: See Section 6.5.1. Construction  Spot checks  none       construction     low
arising from construction      Construction works will be supervised and/or  Sub-Contractors during                   duration
carried out by licensed contractors under the             construction by
existing Marx permitting regulations.                     Marz level PIU.
Localized waterlogging at  n   The size of the trough should provide for the  PIU        Marz level PIU  N/A          design          none
watering point, others may     maximum grazing load of cattle, as calculated by          /WMB to
occur as a result of           a grazing management plan: See Section 6.5.2              monitor plans
deliberate breaking of the                                                               in concordance
pipes to access the water                                                                with grazing
supply on-route.                                                                         management
plan.
ENVIUON\?o \ IAL XEr)1RCVSM.\AGNAILXIJ       WORLD BA\K / TACIO JOIN I ENIRONMEN I Al PROCGRAM
43



Impact                         Mitigation / Best Practice                 Institutional  Monitoring     Training      Timing        Total Cost'
Responsibility
Need for water points along the route      PIU or sub-    Marz level PIU  None        design           none
constructed for the watering point should be  contractors,  /WMB to
analyzed, and where appropriate taps should be  whoever is  monitor plans
included in the design, in concordance with  responsible for  in concordance
water resources management plan See Section  design.      with water
6.5.7.                                                    resources
management
plan.
Increase pressure on grazing n  Ensure that enough watering points are provided Marz level PIU  N/A     N/A           design          none
on those areas provided        to support the grazing management plan: See  / WMBs
with watering points           Section 6,5.2
2 b  Sustainable mnanagement ol high cummer pa,tures
Environmental impacts of  N    Fertilizer management plan: See Section 6.5.3  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in  on-going   medium
fertilizers.                                                              / WMBs         monitoring, as  the
part of water  application
resources      and use of
management     fertilizers for
plan: See Section all villagers
2.17.          seeking credit
for fertilizers.
Increased economic       n     A post of stock minder should be included as  N/A         N/A            N/A           on-going       medium
disparity as the very poor     part of the workfare program (See Section 6.5.11)
may not have enough stock      to take groups of stock to the high pastures,
to warrant the journey to the  when low pastures have been identified as unfit
high pastures or they may      for grazing in the grazing management plan (See
not be able to make use        Section 6.5.2)
privately owned high
pastures.
I.t  Improvemenn andl rehat'ifiLition of illage hay meadOWS
ENVIRONCMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENF          WORLD BANIC / TACEISjOIr ENVIRO.\XfE.\ IAL PROGRAM
44



Impact                           Mitigation/ Best Practice                    Institutional    Monitoring      Training      Timing         Total Cost'
Responsibility
Environmental impacts of   N     Fertilizer management plan: See Section 6.5.3  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in   on-going        medium
fertilizers.                                                                   / WMBs          monitoring, as  the
part of water   application
resources       and use of
management      fertilizers for
plan: See Sectiou all villagers
2.17.           seeking credit
for fertilizers.
2.d   R intiod ucti,-n of fvragt: ]Eunie, jint - rop rolatioin.
Environmental impacts of   N     Fertilizer management plan: See Section 6.5.3  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in   on-going        medium
fertilizers.                                                                   / WMBs          monitoring, as  the
part of water   application
resources       and use of
management      fertilizers for
plan: See Sectiorr all villagers
2.17.           seeking credit
for fertilizers.
Initial economic impact as a  n  Crop rotation using higher value legumes should Marz level PFU  N/A           N/A           design / on-      none
result of the lower market       be investigated on a watershed bv watershed                                                 going
value of alfalfa, in             basis.
comparison to potatoes.
3.    Sustainable agricultural practices
3 a  Deno.rtr.atioii & trainijng for -uttaui.ible pr,duation ol :. inter u lie.lt and spring barlek
Environmental impacts of   N     Fertilizer management plan: See Sectioni 6.5.3  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in  on-going        medium
fertilizers.                                                                   / WMBs          monitoring, as  the
part of water   application
resources       and use of
management      fertilizers for
plan: See Section all villagers
2.17.           seeking credit
for fertilizers.
3.b   VEnlon tratircr & nIa lIliig t.-r uLat.mnailt prodtic ton ol I ccd anJd .,l PtahIL
ENrsIRONMErNAI REsouRcEsNMANAGCFIEN             WORLDBANK/ TACIsJoINi. EVIlRONMENFPALPROcGRAM
45



Impact                          Mitigation /Best Practice                  Institutional  Monitoring      Training     Timing        Total Cost'
Responsibility
Environmental impacts of  N     Fertilizer management plan: See Section 6.5.3  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in  on-going    medium
fertilizers.                                                               / WMBs         monitoring, as  the
part of water  application
resources      and use of
management     fertilizers for
plan: See Section all villagers
2.17.          seeking credit
for fertilizers.
3 c  Demonstration and training in orchard managenment & establishment
Increased pressure on and  N    Water resources management plan: See Section  Marz level PIU              N/A          on-going         none
pollution of water resources    6.5.7                                      and WMBs
Income generation.        P     Demonstration plots should be managed by   PIU            N/A             N/A          design           none
those who are landless or who have fallow lands,
focus should be made on the benefits of
consolidation of lands.
3.e  Demnontration and training tor su,tainahle cattle and sheep production
Increased pressure on     N     Grazing management plan: See Section 6.5.2  Marz level PIU  Village       WMBs and     on-going         none
grazing.                                                                   / WMBs         Inspectors      village
grazing
management
inspectors to
receive
rangeland
management
training.
4                           ;                               <,.         4    Zr : ,IL - X m       .t' yt     .t.*i      2.e.gjL .
4.a  Demonstration and trainLng in sustainable iMg3tion management (including credit facliltation through [FA:I for irrigation rehabilitation)
Increase in impacts       N     Demonstration & training in sustainable    N/A            N/A             N/A          N/A              low
associated with irrigation      irrigation management - Sub-Component4.4.
Initial environmental scoping of any new   IFAD            PIU            N/A          design           none
irrigation sites.
Water resources management plan: See Section  Marz level PIU              N/A          on-going         none
6.5.7                                      and WMBs
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCESMANAGEMENr             WORLDBANK/ TACISJOINI ENVIRONMENIAL PROGRAM
46



Impact                          Mitigation/Best Practice                   Institutional  Monitoring      Training     Timing         Total Costl
Responsibility
Fertilizer management plan: See Sectionf 6.5.3 and  Marz level PIU  Water quality  Training in  on-going  medium
Implementation of integrated pest management  / WMBs       monitoring, as  IPM and
practices: See Sectionz 6.5.4                              part of water  fertilizer use
resources      for all
management     villagers
plan: See Section involved in
2.1.7          the activity or
seeking credit
to finance
similar
activities.
4.b  I-t-toraiti.n F n-ruin huLl track;
Environmental impacts     N     Construction management plan: See Sectiicn 6.5.7 Construction  Spot checks  none       construction      low
arising from construction                                                  Sub-Contractors during                      duration
construction by
Marz level PIU.
Increased on-farm land    n     Discharge from gullies should not be directly  PIU        none            N/A           design          none
erosion at point of gully       onto agricultural land; design should ensure
discharge.                      culverts discharge into natural or irrigation
channels.
4.c  Stitilization oI are.4 3i rnik c0i lanrdclidet  :chabiititiono oh guhlI ero'ion
Environmental impacts     N     Construction management plan: See Sectioni 6.5.1  Construction  Spot checks  None      construction      low
arising from construction                                                  Sub-Contractors during                       duration
construction by
Marz level PIU.
Increased erosion due to  n     Cabions should be filled with rocks, not concrete. PIU    N/A             N/A           design          none
over-topping of gabions
i.d  D.r.iei.,i4tratlon and tr3inig In milk handling ior procc.;Iiig
4.z  Ijem.rrisnrrati-n and training in Iruil N Wl- ' dr% ing
Health impacts of sulfur  n     Training for operators should include      Marz level PIU  N/A            N/A           design           low
dioxide inhalation.             management of sulfur dioxide to minimize
potential for adverse health impacts.
ENVIRON\MLN IAL RESOURcEES MANAENAEMr        WORLD BANK/ TACISjfIXU E\xIRU IA\ I PROGRA.M
47



6.5.1          Construction Management Plan
Issue/ !inpaci .Analwsis
Environmental impacts of construction
Best Practice /lMigahton
All sub-contractors should be subject to contractual clauses to manage the environmental impacts,
as outlined in Annex E. In addition, clauses should be entered into the contract to allow the PIU to
respond to the results of monitoring activities, as outlined below. All construction works should be
supervised and/or carried out by licensed contractors under existing Marz permitting regulations.
Inhstutional RerpernsibEldh,
The PIU should, depending upon individual construction contractors' scope of work, incorporate an
appropriate set of clauses into each contract given.
Aloniforing
The Marz level PIU should monitor the construction activities through random spot-checks (at least
monthly during long construction periods, or at least once during shorter construction activities).
Where violations of the contractual agreements are noted the central PIU should be notified. The
PIU should formally notify the contractors of the violations, outline the necessary corrective
measures and set a period for correction. Where this is not adhered to, it is recommended that
contractors be subject to contractual penalties (i.e. payment with held) or in severe cases the
contracts should be terminated.
It is also recommended that a final site inspection should be carried out before final payment is
made, in cases where the sites have not been properly cleared or remediated where necessary, final
payment should be withheld until such time that this has been carried out.
Traiiiying
In order to avoid the need for further training it is recommended that the Marz level PIU include an
individual with experience in environmental management and auditing as part of the team, or as an
external contracted for a fixed term to undertake the activities required to monitor sub-contractors.
6.5.2          Grazing Management Plan
ssue/ Ipnpac
Increased pressure on grazing.
Btst Practicel/ AitIgatwon
Grazing management plans for each watershed are identified project activities. However it is worth
mentioning here some best practices and mitigation measure which could be included in the
development of such plans. These plans, updated annually prior to the grazing season, should
identify all of those areas that must be allowed to rest immediately to prevent irreversible
degradation. In addition, the watershed should be zoned according to the maximum carrying
capacity. This plan should include both private and public lands.
Those farmers whose lands are identified as needing rest need to be provided with access to state
lands or provided with assistance to rent alternative lands. Where farmers can demonstrate that
they need credit to let pastures rest, improve them or to rent other lands they should be able to
access credit with better terms and conditions.
The ERM team found that a pilot project has been started upon these lines in one of the villages
included in the project, a scheme such as this could be used as a demonstration.
Local high forage value species should be used to improve pastures.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRCEs MANAGEMENT            WoRLDs BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRoGRAM
48



In order to ensure the long-term viabilitv of a grazing plan, it is necessary that the plan be
developed in a wholly participatory manner. It should be presented as the response to the
identification of reduction in productivity of pasture and increase in agricultural land erosion. The
short-termn individual benefits (financial or otheTwise) for those forced to rest pasture land should
be clearly presented to the cornmunities involved,
Once support has been garnered for the scheme, the ,.' I,.. ..; 1 i the village mayor and other kev
individuals should, with technical assistance from the PIU, develop the initial grazing zones and
select grazing plan inspectors (2 n. n . II  T'he inspectors should receive payment from the
project as part of the workfare programn
It is envisaged that this activity will initially be carried out on a village by village basis. However,
the need for r ,r. . -  renting of lands will demonstrate the benefits of a watershed approach,
and therefore the village schemes could be developed into a watershed wide grazing management
programn once the watershed management board has been established.
It is recommended that grazing plan inspectors be appointed for a fixed term. Their responsibilities
would include annual assessment of the pastures, on-going monitoring, and identification of those
violating the plan.
'I[he grazing inspectors would also be responsible for monitoring of the land which would take
place monthly throughout the grazing season Penalties should be imposed upon those who violate
the grazing plan. Where those fotnd to be violating the plan have loans, this penalty could involve
the:;., n c. of preferential tenns and conditions. The imposition of penalties should initially lie
with the 1 ! : mayors and subsequently the watershed management board,
In order to monitor the impact of the grazing management plan, the annual assignation of grazing
zones should be monitored, which will by default monitor the changes in pasture quality over the
watershed.
The concepts above outline the basic structure of rangeland :r. .  nr rr . . implenmented in
many countries. It is recommended that key village personnel and the inspectors should be given
training in rangeland management: approxinmatelv a total of 6 persons per village. This could be
carried out on a watershed by watershed basis which will also assist develop the understanding of
the benefits of watershed management as opposed to village level management.
6.5.3          Fertilizer Managemnent
Issueinmpact
Enviromnental impacts of fertilizer use
Mitigation
The first requirement to ensure that proper application rates of chemical fertilizers are observed is
to ensure that the correct dosage is known. The national Unit for Agrochemical Management was
established during the Soviet Union and was responsible for analyzing a soil sample from every 4
hectares of land on a 4 yearly basis. From this the precise nutritional requirement of the soil was
calculated.
It is recommended that this unit is once again used to carry out similar analysis for each watershed
area. It is reconmmended that the information outlining the nutritional need of the soil he provided
l."\,RONrAFN, AL RE'-'usc FSMANA(AMrFNf       WOSRLD IAN: / TACI 101NT ENYIRONENTO LPRCtRAM
49



to all farmers. At the beginning of the project a complete survey of the entire watershed area could
be carried out, and the information made freely available to farmers.
In order to ensure that this information is utilized, when farmers apply for credit to purchase
fertilizers they should receive more favorable loan conditions if they prove that this data have been
used for their calculations of how much fertilizer they require. Once the data are no longer valid
(after four years) farmers would be responsible for updating this analysis and would have to
provide such proof in order to be granted further loans. In addition, it would be recommendable
that loans are not granted unless farmers can also demonstrate adequate storage facilities for the
fertilizer concerned.
In addition, it is recommended that training courses in the proper management of chemicals are
provided. Once again, it is recommended that in order to get credit for fertilizers, farmers must
demonstrate that they have attended such a course, which it is suggested should be held on a yearly
basis. A suggested outline for such a course would include:
*  soil productivity - practical methods to determine soil productivity;
* different methods to improve productivity - advantages and disadvantages of traditional and
alternative methods including; physical methods, chemical fertilizers, manure, bio-humus and
domestic wastes;
* chemical fertilizer - calculation of dose and analysis of application methods; determination of
nutritive sufficiency and need for fertilization during vegetation (grow) period; and
determination and limits of nitrate content in agricultural products.
* manure - methods to maximize efficacy including assessment of manure readiness; and
*  negative environmental and health risks offertilizers
Mlontonuig
Surface water and groundwater quality should be sampled as outlined in Section 6.5.7.
Training
It is recommended that the local PIU have the capacity to undertake the required training courses,
or extension services already available could also be utilized to avoid the need for training of
trainers to undertake this activity.
6.5.4           Environmental management of irrigation
I5Me,J1mpac I Analysis
Environmental impacts of irrigation
Alitigahon / iBesl Practice
The training should emphasis the link the environmental issues and the impact upon agricultural
yield sustainability, at a minimum the following topics should be included:
*  Use minimization through precise application (the project incorporates irrigation best management
practices)
* Waterlogging and salinization;
* Erosion;
* Eutrophication (soil and water); and
* Water pollution.
In the case that the scheme does move to the construction of primary or secondary schemes, or
increases the amount of water released from any rivers, it would also be recommended that
environmental flows be calculated. In the case where these levels are contravened it would be
recommended that the increased irrigation is not included as part of the project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT              WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
50



Althcugh the credit is to be 5upplied by IFAD), for the sake ol projectcontintity it is advise d that all
trainig courses be lead by the Marz level Pls sith techrical assistance fronrt IFAD, where
appropriate.
Calculation ot rnviTrnmental flows, in the fort's outlined above, is not A5 requirervent of Armcnman
law Therefore it is recommended that calculatiorin of enrJfonmenitV1 flow be unidertken by th,
:cntralt pTjJ before the inclusion of any irrigation development which may sigrificantly reduce river
flovss below the rniniroal flowss which support environmentaf functions.
he Marz level PiU should undertake'spot checksc(i newly irrigated land at least twice during the
irrit;aiin season. The objective sthuld be to identify plaaces where ovec-wvakrting or wasteful
managesmetit of water is ccurring. Where this occurs, farniers shoruld ind-ividuialv be advisied of the
lically observable negative impactsk Where the probletim results trot's poor inteastru,tere
aintenlasrwe the project should movc, to carry out the Comvtrirclion wssirks necessary as part of the
workfiae pyogram.
in order to avoid th e need fur further tr.rinrig it is reconuriended that the hIatt levsl MI iculude an
individual with expeienrce in agricultural water management as part of the trAna, or as an extiersa
contracted tlw a lixed term to undettase the acbvities required.
6.5.5           Wfater retSfrcts mttatrgemrent ptan
Issur/lmpvcf
Neg,tive insparts upon walter esourcesv such as increased pilution and sedinsent
Waster sesoorrese  manatgement plans for ach wateshed are identified pto1ect actiitixes. hinweserit
is worth metlitnniog hefe omen beat practi s and mitigation measure whihe ould tle inclded in
s'uch plansr litiii?zjg the data coilected for the watershed managensent plans cricci tring the
qeantih ot wearer rcsources availabe, . water balaice' shoauld bh caiceutated ifr each rsic-o
catchoreot. In aldditiorn a water quality sutrvey should be earned out to provide a baseline for
subsequent monitoroig.
The impacts upon thhis water balance of plans forifuture increased ise on water for iorigation,
domestic water supply, industrial water suply arnd stock nuutibeis ,nould he assessed using this
water balance. Nhis activity should provide the basis for subsequent decisions taken by the
It iS suggested that this information be cCompiled into an annual resiew of the status ot the water
resources within the nmiro-catchinent. This w ould then be diisiriboted to all hous,hiolds in the
cachlrment to itcrrtase awareness of the crmslartiv impact of their actions upon their eater
hoe mceiatbets of eavh village should be assisted technically by the Pill to develop the seater budget
for theit catchnient. Tli,s ould be conhbitred with the gracing plan aned the as'essment uf areas at
risk of erosion hi proside an analysis of poitits of umtec-coonectin between the eneirimnental
pr,oblcms i:tn-tifid bi the villag,er  during the  participatory planningtsorkshops.
Water quattly samples should be taken at the noairl mutflow of each ti-catchtnenn, and at an'v
other key points of  l,aer qudlity or quatity transtformnation iparticularIY where drinking water
supplies uligifi'ste,. At a ibnimuill analysis if pff, DO,. tIOD  Coiifrtmms/Fcoli, Aumonia, Tota ) ))



Nitrates and Pesticides. While some water quality analysis requires laboratory equipment basic
analysis could be done by villagers as part of the work fare program.
Where the flow is not measured at the point of exit from the micro-catchment this should be
implemented by the project. It is recommended that flow be measured each month, using basic flow
measuring techniques which could be undertaken by the same villagers as those responsible for
water quality monitoring.
Members of villages should be selected, based on both academic and practical experience, as part of
the workfare program, to carry out these activities and produce the annual bulletin. and report the
monitoring activities to the other inhabitants of the watershed and the local PIU.
Altmitontig
The Marz level PIU would need to monitor the activities of the villagers involved in this activity,
who would probably need significant support during the first year.
Where the results of water quality monitoring indicate that drinking water exceeds national
standards the PIU should notify the Ministry of Nature Protection, who will then stop the supply.
6.5.6          Enhancement of Community Forest Management Plan
Isiue/7rnpacr
Ownership, access, utilization and income generation resulting from community forest
management plans.
Miti gation
The first stage of the Community Forest Management component is to transfer the former Kolchoz
and Sovchoz forest land to villages and prepare participatory community forest and pasture
management plans. It was felt appropriate to draw attention to some key issues and mitigation
measures that may be enhanced.
With the supportive legislation, communities can be involved in forest management activities such
as small scale logging, collection of fuel wood, planting of fruit trees, collection of non-wood forest
products. With a revised market structure and monitoring and evaluation, training etc, in
sustainable forest management techniques, incomes from forest resources can be greatly enhanced.
The real value of the forest resource can be realized to the communities who live and use the forest,
and can then be used as capital for other development activities in the community. By empowering
the local communities and providing a degree of ownership of the resource to the communities,
there is a greater incentive for the local population to assist with the control of illegal logging and
use of the forest resource for grazing.
Community forestry activities are beginning to be developed. For example, the EA team were
shown a site where community forest and agro-forestry activities were introduced in Spring 2001
and were continuing with enthusiasm. The community members were undertaking planting of
fruit trees and other trees. However, the land for these activities was assigned to the communities
by the Forest Enterprise (as it falls within the forest enterprise land) by a verbal agreement. The
comnmunities have no legal agreement that would enable them to have long-term guaranteed access
to the land. The one request by the community members was for a legal agreement.
The following actions are recommended:
* ensure the legislation for land tenure, forest resource use and sale etc is developed and adopted
prior to the initiation of community forest and agro-forest activities
* develop of local markets for wood and non-wood products
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
52



* transportation to markets is developed
* transparent and gender equality involvement/employment
* adequate training in agro-forestry and forestry provided
* full participation of communities in the decision making processes and planning made by key
forest stakeholders and institutions, such as Hyantar, Forest Enterprises, Forest Reserve staff etc.
* ensure close co-ordination across project components, especially for grazing activities.
Monitoring of the forest activities should be undertaken at least annually. Communities should be
required to provide annual managenment plans, as with the forest enterprise operations - sirnilar
monitoring should be undertaken.
In addition, the PIU should monitor the relationship of the forest enterprises, Hyantar and MoNP
with the communities.
TraIIlIlJ4
Training in sustainable forest management practices, adapted to the meet the needs of the
community forestry plan should be provided prior to the implementation of the community
management plans.
6.5.7           Sustainable agroforestry harvesting
Issue/Impact Analysis
Sustainable provision of wood and tree products
Best Pra.:tr.x .A  i A  gh hI,
For all trees planted sustainable harvesting rates should be calculated and observed: For trees
planted to protect agricultural land and to stabilize areas at risk of landslides, limits should be
expressed as trees per meter.
'znL . tilri.,.'n.  is . rt''i  ,lit
Where trees are planted on private land the responsibility should lie with the individual farmer or
groups of farmers concerned. Where trees are planted on state or community land the responsibility
for the management of trees planted should be clearly defined: it is recommended that the
responsibility for managing these trees form part of the workfare program.
It is recornmended that monitoring of the number of trees and cubic metro produced/harvested
should take place twice per year: at the beginning and the end of the winter season. The
responsibility for this should fall with the watershed management board; however, until the
existence of this institution it is recommended that monitoring be the responsibility of the local PIU.
Where it is found that the harvesting limits, or any other required sustainable management
practices, are not being observed, it is recommended that initially a period of grace should be given
for those persons to respond to the corrective action identified as appropriate, if at the end of this
time period corrective action has not occurred one of the following courses of action should be
followed:
*  -where trees have been purchased by individualfanrers usinig credit: the terms of the environmental
credit should be returned to standard credit terms and conditions.
ENVIRONM1ENTAL RESTLRcEs MANAGEMENT            WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PR(CKRAMA
53



*  where trees have been given to individualfarmers in theform of a grant: that farmer should not be
supplied with any further trees under the project, until such time as the project recognizes that
appropriate corrective action has taken place.
*  where trees have been given to communities in theform of a grant: the community should be subject to
a penalty, this could either be monetary, or it could be suspension of other beneficial actions
implemented as part of this project. In the case where responsibility for the management was
assigned as part of the workfare program this person should be given a period of warning
before being relieved of their responsibilities.
Monitoring of non-wood forest products should also be included in this plan.
Trra:iniig
When trees are provided, whether free of charge or in the form of credit, the basis for the harvesting
limits should be explained to those who will be responsible for the management of those trees. This
explanation should be provided at the point of delivery of the trees:
*  Trees provided to individualfarmers: in order for farmers to either receive trees paid for by a grant
or to receive credit to buy trees they should be required to take part in a short training course (2
hours) outlining the sustainable management practices required to ensure environmental
objectives are met.
* Trees provided to the village or watershed: the person or persons assigned to this task should take
part in the same course as that given to the farmers.
It is suggested that courses be provided once a year prior to the planting season.
6.5.8           Expansion of workfare program
lscue ,'lmpact
Increase direct income generation.
Besl Practhce/Mlngahbon
The high level of professional capability identified in all the villages by the rapid rural appraisals,
indicates that persons with the capacity necessary to undertake these tasks exist in each of the
watersheds.
tnvshutisonal Rn-ponsibilitv
It is recommended that these posts be created and advertised within each watershed. Applicants
should be short-listed and interviewed, following standard procedures by the central PIU. Once the
watershed management board exists these people should be included in its staff.
Monfalonnig
All persons employed should be reviewed by the PIU initially after 3 months, then after 6 months
and then on an annual basis. Where it is found that the work is either not being carried out or is not
of a sufficient standard, then the persons involved should be subject to disciplinary proceedings
ultimately leading to the withdrawal of their contract. This appraisal process should be the
responsibility of the head of the watershed management board once that institution exists.
Training
Once the best candidates have been identified, an assessment of their individual training need
should be made by the PIU.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURcES MANAGEMENT              WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
54



6.6           IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT
As outlined in Section 6.4, the objective of this environmental assessment is not to
re-identify or analyze the positive environmental and social impacts of the
project, which form the project's overall objectives, but to identify issues within
the main project activities which may lead to negative environmental or social
impacts, or instances where identified positive impacts could be enhanced.
It is, however, felt that within the contexts of this project it is important to
additionally identify and mitigate a set of process based risks which, in the
opinion of the ERM team, have the potential to seriously jeopardize the
component's overall effectiveness.
These are outlined individually below, with proposed mitigation measures. To
ease the reader's appraisal of these recommendations, they have been provided in
the same format as the stand-alone management plans in Section 6.5.
6.6.1         Demonstration activities are not replicated quickly enough to mitigate the
impact of the increase of animals purchased arisingfrom   improved access to
credit
I1 ,,C  liuii c
All demonstration activities have a time lag between implementation and benefit realization;
therefore, it is necessary to examine strategies to demonstrate benefits in the shortest time possible.
In addition, the benefits of the demonstration plots themselves should be targeted upon those most
in need to maximize the poverty reduction potential.
S.- t Pa,L. t litI  r 'iOciii
Prior to the implementation of any new demonstration activities, a survey of activities already
implemented in the watershed should be carried out. Where instances of the activity to be
demonstrated already exists, these should be utilized as the demonstration plot.
Use of other demonstration activities, both in terms of agricultural techniques and collective
organization, already implemented within Armenia should also be investigated. Where these have
been successfully established, arrangements should be made for inhabitants of the watersheds to
visit them. For example, the "Sermnabuyts" collective farm, Vardablur, Lory Marz.
Where new demonstration plots are implemented, the labor for these should be selected from the
poorest villagers, especially those without land or those who have been unable to maintain their
own land in production.
In cases where activities to be demonstrated are identical to those carried out on Soviet Kolkhos and
Sovkhos, the focus should be on demonstrating the benefits of collective action as opposed to
simply the techniques involved.
The Marz level PIU should carry out a survey focusing on the identification of examples of
agricultural best practice for each watershed prior to project implementation. In all new projects,
this should be a principal objective of the rapid rural appraisals.
ENV'IRONMENTAL RESOL'RCES MANAGEM1ENT       WORLD BANK / TAoISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PR(X;RAM
55



The central PIU should identify examples of best practice within Armenia, and develop relations to
allow key members of villages, or those responsible for the implementation of demonstration
activities to visit.
Where demonstration plots are implemented the local PIU should identify those members of the
community who do not have lands or whose lands are not productive to take part in the
demonstration activity.
6.6.2           Farmers are not able to access credit in order tofinance the inputs necessary to
improve their livelihoods, and therefore no cash surplus is createdfor replication
of demonstration projects
Issue linpact
The key issue for all of the communities concerned is access to credit. From the participatory
workshops that have taken place to date the communities all believe that credit will be provided as
part of this project. Without an increased access to credit, farmers, firstly, will not be able to fund
any replication of demonstration projects, and, secondly, in the pilot projects are likely to lose faith
in the project as a result of such a major failure to meet expectations.
During the field visits for this project, the ERM team identified several key barriers to currently
existing credit sources in Armenia. If the project is not to provide credit, these are some of the
barriers which will have to be bridged in order to improve farmer's access to credit.
Best Practice/lltigation
a financial management understanding - farmers do not understand the credit system, while they do
want credit, many do not understand how to budget future cash flows. Capacity building
dealing holistically with personal financial management would be beneficial.
* project preparation - in the case of large scale projects or initiatives, the farmers do not understand
the various sorts of assistance e.g. the difference between commercial banks and donor agencies,
and how to prepare their ideas in order to apply to those organizations involved. Capacity
building in project preparation is thus required, especially for the more senior members of the
villages who would be in the position to access small-scale donor funds.
loan collateral - in many instances credit organizations do go to the villages, or the villages have
information regarding the requirements to access the credit. However, villagers either cannot
afford the collateral or do not feel confident enough to manage their future finances to put up
collateral. Therefore, it will often be necessary for the farmers to organize themselves into co-
operatives to jointly put up the collateral necessary. Unfortunately, in many cases the structure
of these organizations currently demanded by the co-operative banks is considered to be
unworkable by the farmers. There has been some work in Armenia evaluating collective projects
that have tried and failed (1), and it is suggested that a closer inspection of these could provide
assistance. In addition, it is suggested that the demonstration projects actually focus on piloting
schemes of organization with added assistance and security provided by the project as incentive
for initial involvement.
hWituhtl,71,71 ReNp.n7sibilrty
The PIU should investigate these barriers within the context of project preparation, and prior to any
further contact with the communities involved. This includes the disclosure of this environmental
assessment.
(1) For example, by Dr Naruba Kurkchiyan, Center for Socio-Legal Studies, University of Oxford.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
56



6.6.3          Fanners do not choose to access credit to support environmentally sustainable
practices, instead opting to use the increased access to support accelerated
investment in environmentally endangering activities.
In the case farmers do gain access to credit, there is a further risk that not only do they not replicate
the sustainable practices included in the demonstration projects, but they also choose to invest in
fertilizers, pesticides, stock and agri-processing, without any regard for the environmental
implications of their activities.
In some ways the provision of credit as part of this project provided a final control, whereby,
replication of activities, or meeting certain environmental requirements would have allowed
farmers to access credit with more beneficial terms and conditions. Without this final safeguard, it is
even more imperative to examine mechanisms to ensure that the increased credit is used in an
environmentally sustainable manner.
St I PrAt,a t. A In l
As is outlined in the environmental management plan in Table 6.1, several instances where it would
be effective to have a some control over the credit sources have been identified. It is therefore
recommended that in removing the barriers to credit access, the project analyses ways that project
finances could be used to provide farmers with financial incentives to carry out the actions
developed in the environmental management plan. For example, would it be possible to pay for an
environmental officer to be included in the main banks offering credit, or to part finance loan funds
with lower interest rates, providing certain environmental criteria have been met?
1?;Itl1titroetal Fe-  lI,I ,bl;rtv
The PIU should investigate mechanisms to provide farmers with financial incentives to implement
environmentally sustainable practices.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESE*MRCES MANAGENIENT         WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINTENVIRONMIENTALPROCRAM
57



7            STATE FOREST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
7.1         INTRODUCTION
This chapter comprises the EA of the State Forest Management component of the
NRMPR project in Armenia. The chapter is organized as follows:
*  Section 7.2 Background;
*  Section 7.3 Component description;
*  Section 7.4 Site Identification and Implementation Process;
*  Section 7.5 Identification of Environmental and Social Impacts;
*  Section 7.6 Environmental Management Plan (for component); and
*  Section 7.7 Implementation Risk Assessment (for component).
7.2         BACKGROUND
One of the key objectives of the project is to realize the potential value of the
forest resources, so as to provide much needed revenue to the Govemment of
Armenia (MoNP) and to the communities within the identified watersheds. In
addition, this project address one of the priority investment activities identified in
the NEAP (1999) - to invest in forestry and biodiversity management programs
and the construction of forest roads.
As discussed in the introductory sections, the forests of Armenia are being
rapidly degraded, primarily from legal and illegal forest activities and extensive
grazing in community lands. The State Forest Management Component (FMC) is
designed to address these issues, however, the EA has highlighted two primary
potential key negative impacts of the FMC. These are:
* increased access to the forest (new and improved access); and
* construction and maintenance of forest roads.
While the FMC incorporates mitigation measures for both of these potential
impacts, it is suggested that certain mitigation measures be further enhanced. The
two most important mitigation measures proposed in this EA are:
* development of a Best Practice Manual for Forest Road Construction and
Maintenance, and
* provision for independent review (with possible certification, using
internationally defined criteria and indicators) by national or international
certifying bodies, such as the Forest Stewardship Council.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TAcis JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
58



The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) in Table 7.1 and complementary
management plans discuss in detail these and other recommended mitigation
measures.
The FMC is linked with the other two project components (i.e., Community
Natural Resource Management, and Protected Areas Management and
Biodiversity Conservation), and where possible areas of overlap are addressed
within the project design and in the discussion of institutional framework and
project implementation in Section 2.
7.3         COMfPONENTDESCRIPTION
The FMC component of the project aims to deliver social, economic,
environmental and global biodiversity benefits through sustainably managing the
pressures that threaten forest resources in Armenia . The component aims to
address these issues by building local capacity, rehabilitating degraded forests,
applying sustainable forest management and biodiversity practices.
The project activities to be undertaken within the component have been designed
to meet the two specified outputs in the Aide Memoire (October/November
2001):
* sustainable forest management (SFM) practiced in selected pilot areas on State
forest land;
* establishment of legal, institutional, policy and human capacities for
sustainable forest management, biodiversity conservation and poverty
reduction in Hyantar, FREC, Ministry of Nature Protection (MONP) and
village councils.
The activities used in this EA have been taken from the Second Draft Final Report
for the FMC (Logical Framework), August 2001, along with the Aide Memoire.
The set of activities under the fourth component, "Forest Biodiversity Conservation
im7proved and Protected7 Areas efficiently mtianaged" is removed from the 3rd draft of
the FMC report and from the Armenia Natural Resources Management Brief
(September 2001). Therefore, the EA has not included activities listed under this
Output in the second draft of the FMC. The activities and issues are now dealt
with by the Protected Areas Component. However, biodiversity remains fully
incorporated across all forestry activities.
Furthermore, the activities have been modified in response to the version of the
Aide Memoire dated October/November 2001. In this version of the Aide
Memoire the community forestry activities relating to the rehabilitation of over-
grazed and /or over-logged stands in the vicinity of villages (former Kolchoz and
Sovchoz lands) have been incorporated into the Community Based Natural
Resources Management Component (Sectiont 6). Thus all activities originally in
ENVIRONMFN IAL REXOURCESMA',AGENIENf  WORLD BANK/ TACI',JOINT ENVIRONMENTALPRVCVRAM
59



this component relating to community forestry are now incorporated into Section
6.
The set of activities particular to each output are listed in Box 7.1.
Box 7.1        Forest Management Activities
Sub-Components
X-   Susutinable fard unag-ien practiced In oeectd pilot as on statieieut land
1.1  Preparation of state forest management plans
1.2  Reforestation of over-logged, scarcely stocked stands and afforestation of blanks
1.3  Pre-commercial thinnings and thinning of pole stands in naturally regenerated stands
1.4  Regeneration of over-mature, partially disintegrated stands through group selection
fellings and application of low impact harvesting methods for the purpose of SFM
demonstration
1.5  Rehabilitation of degraded and construction of new, forest roads, for implementation of
forest management plans
1.6  Independent certification and auditing of the Zikatar experimental and demonstration
forest
1.7  Application of innovative methods of biodiversity conservation in forest management
activities, on State, community, private and reserved forest land
1.8  Restore and strengthen operational capacities of the forest service (Hyantar), Ministry of
Nature Protection and villages involved in project operations
2     upwtliqMpaMa
Mfl2-   of   h
2.1  Reform and adapt legal framework for sustainable forest management, biodiversity
conservation and communal involvement
2.2  Develop a national forest policy, strategy and program
2.3  Restructure the forest administration, including separation of, administrative and
commercial functions
2.4  Introduce innovative marketing and pricing methods
2.5  Launch program against illegal logging and corruption including strengthening of
inspection services
2.6  Develop and implement training program for key forest stakeholders including
participatory management of planning methods
2.7  Develop Zikatar center for demonstration and dissemination of environmental education
for foresters and students
Note: FREC standsfor Forest Research and Experimental Center
While the activities within each of the four output categories vary, their primary
objectives in terms of positive environmental and social impacts are similar. These
objectives are summarized in Box 7.2.
Box 7.2        Summary of intended positive environmental and social impacts
I-;Sutahble for,t mana4ennt practiced in selected pilot areas an state forest land
ENVIRoNMENi'ALRESOURCESMANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
60



* Avoid cumulative environmental impacts of forest production and rehabilitation
activities (e.g. soil erosion, sedimentation of watercourses, biodiversity loss).
* Enhance biodiversity conservation and sustainable ecosystem management in forest
and grazing lands.
* Employment opportunities in road construction, workforce program s, rehabilitation
activities etc.
* Alleviate the rapid degradation of forest resources.
* Reduction in environmental impacts of existing road construction practices.
* Carbon sequestration.
Increase contribution of forests to the state budget.
Reduction in illegal activities related to forests.
* Recreational and amenity value of land increased.
2 Legal, institutional, policy and human capacities for sustainable forest management,
biodiversity conservation and poverty reduction established in Hyantar, FRtC, Mtinist
of Nature Protection and village councils
Legal and institutional framework for sustainable forest management established.
Institutional capacity strengthened in key institutions.
Establishment of effective monitoring systems for forest management and planning.
Legislation reformed to enable community and private sector ownership and
management of forest resources.
* Alleviation of corruptive practices.
Forest products markets and prices reformed.
* Forest extension services for non-state forest owners and conmmunity members created.
Many of the project activities assist in the alleviation of poverty through
providing employment opportunities. The Community Based Natural Resource
Management Component refers to a workfare program where the project related
employment opportunities will be used to provide the much needed cash
resources to community members for use in investments in community
infrastructure, nature protection and conservation. Forestry related employment
opportunities are further discussed in Section 7.6.4.
7.4           SITE IDENTIFICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
7.4.1          Site Identification
Forest sites for FMC activities have already been identified. The sites are located
either within, or adjacent to, watersheds for community forest activities, or in
suitable forest areas on State land for the sustainable forest management
activities. The site selection process should take into consideration the issues of
ensuring sufficient (%) areas of forest land set aside for the conservation of
biodiversity and address the tension of old-growth forests versus regeneration of
decaying beech forests. In summary the sites chosen are,
* four sites currently on community and private lands (between 70 and 110
hectares in size) in both Marzas, with current problems of erosion and
unsustainable land use, are identified for the implementation of activities to
arrest soil erosion and improve the hydrological regime;
* four sites currently under Hyantar Ownership that were former Kolkhoz and
Sovkhoz lands, ranging in size from 200 to 500 hectares, are identified for the
ENVIRONMENTALRESOURCE5 MANAGEMIENT          WORLD BANK/ TACISIJONT ENVIRONNIENTALPROCRAM
61



enlargement of the community capacity to promote environmentally friendly
natural resource community management, to assist in the arresting of
unsustainable land uses, illegal logging and intensive grazing;
* five sites on Hyantar and MoNP lands (between 500 and 3000 hectares),
currently used by the Forest Enterprises but with problems of illegal cuttings,
lack of pre-commercial thinnings and poor regeneration of dominant wood
species )oak, beech) are identified for the promotion of SFM practices and
forest rehabilitation; and
* six sites within Protected Areas varying from 5 to 500 hectares, with key
problems of erosion, rare species under threat, illegal cuttings and poor natural
regeneration of key species (e.g. yew and pine), are identified for activities to
improve the forest biodiversity via the Community Biodiversity Stewardship
Plan.
7.4.2       Implementation of FMC activities
The FMC will be implemented over the five years of the NRMPRP. However, the
timing of the individual activities is critical to the successful implementation of
the project, with, for example, the need to develop and adopt a forest code that
supports the application and enforcement of SFM practices, prior to any SFM
activities being initiated. With these issues in mind, the following timing for
activities is planned.
* Years 1 - 2: development and adoption of all necessary legislation and enabling
frameworks, the development of markets and pricing mechanisms and the
provision of training to key stakeholders and implementing bodies.
* Years 2-5: begin implementation of forest based activities.
7.4.3       Main executing bodies
For the management of the forestry component, a Forestry Management
Component Implementation Support Team (FMCIST) is suggested within the
PIU. This team of forest professionals will co-ordinate the project activities with
executing agencies Hyantar, FREC and the MONP, MONP's Department for
Protected Areas as well as with their sub-units and the communities, existing
village structures, NGOs and the proposed forest user associations. The FMCIST
will also be the technical coordinator for possible donor activities supporting the
Bank's FMC.
In summary, the following actors are involved in implementing the activities
under the FMC:
* the PIU - the PIU will set up two Marz level PIUs to deal with the
implementation of the project; these will either be newly formed entities or
contracted local NGOs;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
62



* CJSC Hyantar/including State Forest Enterprises will be responsible for the
implementation of sustainable forest management plans, monitoring and
evaluation;
* FREC, Forest Researc)h and Experimental Center including Zikatar Experimental
Eniterprise will provide demonstration plots, research, forest management
plans, training etc.;
* MoNP, Departmient of Protected Areas, including Lake Sevan National Park,
Dilijan State Reserve and the Reservations;
* private enterprises will be involved in the implementation of sustainable forest
management and rehabilitation activities, utilization of forest areas;
* local user groups, single persons, entire villages will be able to obtain long term
lease agreements, and paid labor, enabling the traditional use of the forest and
the introduction of small-scale forest operations. This will require the
professional support of the above mentioned agencies;
* NGOs - actors in the proposed field activities, but also for monitoring of
specific project activities
If the proposed institutional state reform to allocate wood sales from state forests
to the State Procurement Agency is implemented, then this agency will be
included into the FMC of the project.
7.4.4        Project Monitoring and Review
The FMC has identified key performance indicators, such as, job creation,
increased contribution of forests to the State budget, and a defined area under
sustainable forest management plans, as specified in the logical framework, for
monitoring during the project lifecycle. The project design also contains an
additional set of indicators against which to measure technical, ecological, legal
and economic progress. In addition, mid-term and final reviews will be carried
out.
The FMC has begun to identify groups of stakeholders who will assist in the
monitoring. For example, local NGOs will assist with monitoring social and
environmental impacts of the FMC and MoNP will monitor Hyantar activities.
The monitoring responsibilities are further addressed in the EMP.
7.5          IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
By the very nature of the design of the FMC, to assist in the arrest of forest
degradation and alleviation of rural poverty, potential negative environmental
and social impacts are limited. Where activities in the FMC will result in
environmental and social negative impacts, mitigation measures are suggested.
7.5.1        Primary Potential Negative Impacts
The objective of this environmental assessment therefore, is not to re-identify or
analyze the environmental and social impacts already identified (above and in the
ENVIRONMAENTAL REsOLRCES MANACEMENT      WORLD BANK/ TACII.JOINTENVIRONNMENTALPRLXTRAM
63



FMC document), but to highlight the main project activities which may lead to
negative environmental and social impacts, or to instances where positive impacts
could be enhanced.
This section follows the same format as the Watershed Component in Chapter 6.
Again, the section is divided into several sub-sections: firstly, an outline of the
potential negative impacts is given (these in turn have been divided into two
categories: primary and secondary); and secondly, those positive impacts, for
which enhancement measures will subsequently be recommended, are outlined.
Impacts are classified as being primary for one of the following reasons:
* individually of primary concern- these are impacts which are of concern as
potential one-off significance; and
* cumulatively of primary concern - these are impacts which present concern
in terms of the cumulative impact of many actions.
For the FMC the impacts of individual primary concern are related to road
construction and maintenance. The other impacts outlined below fall into the
later category.
Below, in addition to an overview of the 3 key impacts identified, a table is
included for each impact, covering the following information:
*   contributing sub-components - these are the sub-component activities (as
outlined in Box 7.1: Forest Management Activities) which, to some extent,
contribute to the impact identified,
*   mitigating sub- components- the project has been designed in such a way
that some sub-components already aim to mitigate the impact
identified (1), these sub-components are also identified.
Impact 1: Env'ironmental inmpacts of road con,lructiion, reltabilitation and maintenance
Potential key environmental impacts of forest road construction and operation
include: erosion and sedimentation, water quality impacts, noise, dust and air
pollution, soil compaction, potential risk of fuel spills, disruption to local
residents and of agricultural activities. As a result of new road construction and
rehabilitation of existing roads, there is a risk of secondary impacts from the
advancement of illegal logging activities and development of settlements (e.g. for
upper pastures). The impact of illegal logging is discussed in Impact 3.
Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
(1) These impacts have been included in this assessment because the ERM team believes that further measures, over and above
the mitigating sub-components, are necessary to further ensure that the potential negative impacts do not occur.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
64



1.5  Rehabilitation of degraded and  1.1  Preparation of sustainable forest
construction of new forest road for  management plans
implementation of forest
management plans
2.1  Reform and adapt legal framework for
sustainable forest management,
biodiversity conservation and communal
involvement
2.3  Restructure forest administration, including
separation of administrative and
commercial functions
2.5  Launch program against illegal logging and
corruption including strengthening of
inspection services
2.6  Develop and implement training program
for key forest stakeholders including
participatory management and planning
methods
2.7  Develop Zikatar center for demonstration
and dissemination of environmental
education for foresters and students
The FMC project activities include, the preparation of sustainable management
plans and reform and modifications to the legal framework, restructuring of key
forest administrations, anti-corruption programs and the implementation of
training programs, which are all designed to ensure the minimization of any
negative environmental impacts that may arise from road rehabilitation and
construction within forest areas. However the ERM EA team feel that these
mitigation measures can be strengthened through the development of a Best
Practice Manual (BPM) for forest road construction, as outlined in Section 7.6.1.
Itnpact 2: EnZi;'i0,1t t,enIzI ill1i,Uptt offelling L?CtiZ'itit'; (0t1Iilil S. 'n[Miinln ClIttil,z' etc)
Potential key impacts of felling activities include: damage of neighboring trees
and plants due to poor directional felling; felling of hollow trees; felling trees
below the required dbh (l) as stated in the sustainable forest management plan;
and over-extraction per hectare (i.e. extraction rate greater than Annual Allowable
Cut (AAC)).
Contributing Sub-Components         Mitigating Sub-Components
1.3   Pre-commercial thinnings and  1.1   Preparation of sustainable forest
thinning of pole stands in          management plans
naturally regenerated stands
1.4   Regeneration of over-mature,   2.1  Reform and adapt legal framework for
partially disintegrating stands     sustainable forest management,
through group selection fellings    biodiversity conservation and communal
and in applying low impact          involvement.
harvesting methods for the
purpose of demonstrating SFM
(1) dbh stands for diameter at breast height and is the method used to measure the size of a tree and to set minimum cutting
sizes for SFM
ENVIRONNIENTAL REsOL RCES MANAGEMENr        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRO N MENTAL PROGRAM
65



2.3  Restructure forest administration,
including separation of administrative and
commercial functions
2.6  Develop and implement training program
for key forest stakeholders including
participatory management and planning
methods
2.7  Develop Zikatar center for demonstration
and dissemination of environmental
education for foresters and students
The project aims to minimize these negative impacts through mitigation measures
such as: development of sustainable management plans, restructuring of key
forest institutions and the rehabilitation of the Zikatar training and demonstration
center.
Impact 3: Environmental impacts of illegal forest activities
A key potential risk identified as a negative impact under road construction and
rehabilitation activities would be the new or improved access to forest areas,
potentially resulting in increased illegal logging activities. Additionally, the
introduction of innovative marketing and pricing methods may also encourage
illegal forest activities. The Project, however, intends to launch a program against
illegal logging and corruption. This issue is further discussed in Section 7.7.1.
Contributing Sub-Components        Mitigating Sub-Components
1.5  Rehabilitation of degraded and  2.5  Launch program against illegal logging
construction of new forest roads   and corruption including strengthening of
for implementation of forest       inspection services
management plans
2.4  Introduce innovative marketing
and pricing methods
7.5.2         Secondary Negative Impacts
In addition to the key potential negative impacts outlined above, several other
secondary negative impacts have been identified. These are outlined in Box 7.3.
Box 7.3       Secondary negative impacts
Negative Impact
1 , ,Sitainableforest ne            t cdin suected pilet a L stte forest land - --
1 2 Reforestation of over-logged, scarcely stocked stands and afforestation of blanks"
Reduction in total grazing lands, leading to increased pressure on remaining pastures
1.3  Pre-comrnercial thinnmngs and thinning of pole stands in naturally regenerated stbnds
Over-extraction of timber in the upper timber-line area
1.4  Regenerabon of over-mature. partallv disintegrating stands through group select3on
fellings and in applying low impact harvesting methods for the purpose of demonstrating
SFM
Loss of biodiversity and wildlife habitat
ENVIRONMENTALRESOURCESMANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
66



Negative Impact
2.   Legal, institutional, policy and human capacities for sustainable forest management,
biodiversity conservation and poverty redaction established in Hyantar, FREC,
Ministry of Nature Protection and village councils
2 4  Introduce inrno'ah%e niarketing and pricing niethcds
2 7  De. elop Zikatar center for dernon,trahon and disseminatin ol en' irorarnental educanotn
[or tE'rec.tcrs and srudcnts
Construction impacts (air, water, noise, solid and liquid waste)
7.5.3         Positive Impacts
As outlined in the component description, the main objectives of the project are to
improve environmental and social conditions. However, there are two positive
impacts that are highlighted here below, as there is significant scope to enhance
these benefits.
hicorneQnet(  tr.ationF
Many of the activities in the forest management component provide opportunities
for employment of local village residents. For long term sustainability, it is
recommended that, where possible, community members be given long-term
employment through, for example, forest enterprises, instead of "cash for
planting trees". Additionally, it is essential that the employment procedure is
transparent and adequately addresses gender equality issues. As with the
Watershed Component, it is also recommended that employment opportunities
be expanded to include many of the activities required for environmental
monitoring and management.
Increased revenue to Ilie Stiet
The removal of market restrictions, for example price setting by and sale of forest
products, by Hyantar (and possibly the State Procurement Agency in the near
future), will provide an opportunity for the State to generate increased revenues.
The development of, for example, an effective taxation system to capture the
stumpage value of timber will greatly enhance the income received by the State
from forest production activities.
Additionally, the launching of a program to assist in the curtailment of illegal
forest activities provides an opportunity for the State to collect more revenues
from forest activity taxes that are currently being avoided.
7.6           ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The environmental management plan (EMP) can be found in Table 7.1. For all
impacts the management plan incorporates:
* institutional roles and responsibilities in relation to each of the mitigation and
monitoring measures;
ENVIRONMENTALRESOURCES MANACGEMENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRCESRAM
67



* provisional cost estimates and timing in relation to the main rehabilitation
schemes; and
* any additional training which will be required to successfully undertake the
measures described.
For the activities under each sub-component, both key and secondary negative
impacts are listed, and, where appropriate, the positive impacts to be enhanced
are also listed.
In order for the reader to be able to quickly identify the type of impacts referred
to, the key negative impacts are indicated by an N, the secondary negative
impacts by an n and positive impacts with enhancement measures by a P.
In the case of key environmental impacts and positive impacts, individual
management plans have been worked out in detail for each issue. These are
referenced in the body of the table and described in detail in the Notes section
found at the end of the table. In the case of secondary environmental impacts,
simple mitigation measures are described in the body of the table.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
68



#lTable 7.1 Forestry Comnponent Environmnental Management Plan
Impact                      Mitigation / Best Practice      Institutional    Monitoring          Training       Timing      Cost
Responsibility
I     Sustainable foresl management (SFMI) practiced in selected pilot areas on state forest land
1.1   Preparation of sustainable forest management plans
N/A
1.2   Reforestation of over-logged, scarcely stocked stands and afforestation of blanks
Increased pressure on  n    Through collaboration with the  Marz level PIU   Water quality and   N/A            Design/     Low
localized water resource    WMC, apply the water resources  Forest Enterprises quantity monitoring              Ongoing
as a result of tree water   management plan, see Sectioni 6.5.7.  WMBs
demand
Reduction in total    n     Selection of sites for rehabilitation  Marz level PIU  N/A           N/A            Design /    None
grazing lands, leading      should be carried out in concordance                                                ongoing
to increased pressure on    with the grazing management plan,
remaining pastures          see Sectiont 6.5.2.
1.3   Pre-commercial thinnings and thinning of pole stands in naturally regenerated stands
Environmental impacts  N    lImplement SFM plan, see Activity 1.1 I lyantar, Forest  Number of trees,  Training in  Design /  Low
of felling activities                                       Enterprises      wastage, felling    SFM techniques Ongoing
damage by FREC
Over extraction of    n     Implement SFM plan, see Activity 1.1 Hyantar, Forest  Location and number Training in  Ongoing  Low
timber in upper timber                                      Enterprises      of felling activities,  SFM techniques
line area.                                                                   thinnings etc by
FREC, Marz level
PIU
1.4   Regeneration of over-mature, partially disintegrating stands through group selection fellings and in applying low impact
harvesting methods for the purpose of demonstrating SFM
Environmental impacts  N    Implement SFM plan, see Activity 1.1 Ilyantar, Forest  FREC monitoring,  Training in  Design /  Low
of felling activities                                       Enterprises      Marz level PIU,     SFM            Ongoing
external auditor/   techniques.
certifying bodies
(national or
international)
Loss of biodiversity and n  Implement SFM plan, see Activity  Hyantar, Forest  Biodiversity      Training in    Design /    Low
wildlife habitats           1.1.                            Enterprises      inventory by FREC   biodiversitv   ongoing
conservation
and awareness.
FNV IK(\%%LN I AL RE9OUKCES NIA\AAEMEN I     WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINI ENVIRONMENIAL P'ROCRAM
69



Impact                     Mitigation / Best Practice      Institutional    Monitoring         Training       Timing      Cost
Responsibility
Income generation:    P     Ensure transparent recruitment, with Hyantar, Forest  Number of    N/A            Ongoing     None
employment                 gender equality, where possible  Enterprises, Marz employees of
ensure long-term jobs provided.  level PIU      Hyantar/ Forest
Enterprise from
community
Unemployment
statistics at
community
Increased revenue to  P    Remove market distortions see    PIU             Annual State revenue N/A          Ongoing     None
State                      Activity 2.4 under Output 3.     Ministry of     from forest taxes.
Implement innovative market and  Nature Protection Export revenues.
pricing schemes.                Hyantar
State Procurement
Agency
1.5   Rehabilitation of degraded and construction of new forest roads for implementation of forest management plans
Environmental and social impacts of road construction and rehabilitation, includes thefollowing specific impacts:
Increased erosion     N    Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest       Water and soil     Forest         Construction See Note
resulting from poor        Forest Road Construction, see Section Enterprises/  quality monitoring  managers, road Duration  below for
siting and construction     7.5.1.                         1-lyantar        by WMBs, FREC,     construction               costs of
of forest roads leading    Undertake an EA prior to new road                Marz level PIU     planners and               implementin
to siltation of water      construction.                                                       laborers to                g BPM
courses                                                                                        receive training           Medium
in application
of the Best
Practice
Manual
Increased soil        N    Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest       Water and soil     As above       Construction Medium
compaction, from            Forest Road Construction        Enterprises/    quality, run-off, re-             Duration
temporary road                                              Hyantar         growth of vegetation
activities
Disturbance to wildlife, N  Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest      Biodiversity       As above       Construction Medium
due to construction        Forest Road Construction, which  Enterprises/    monitoring/                       Duration /
noise and dust,            includes wild life corridors in road  Ilyantar   inventories by FREC,              ongoing
potential damage to        areas and logging activities                     Marz level PIU
wildlife habitat
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAAGFMENT          WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONMEN I AL PROGRAM
70



Impact                      Mitigation/ Best Practice       Institutional    Monitoring          Training       Timing      Cost
Responsibility
Increased pressure on  N    Develop and implement a hunting  Forest Enterprises Biodiversity     As above       Ongoing     Medium
biodiversity resulting      license and quota system.       / Hyantar        monitoring by FREC,
from increased access                                                        Marz level PIU
and tourism (e.g.
hunting)
Increased development N     Ensure co-ordination between forest Forest Enterprises Monitoring of new  N/A       Ongoing     Medium
along access roads, e.g.    activities and watershed        with WMBs, Marz settlements and
upper pasture               management plans/activities for  level PIU       population by Marz
temporary housing.          upper pasture management                         level PIU
Pollution due to      N     Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest       Water and soil      Forest         Construction Medium
inadequate                  Forest Road Construction.       Enterprises/     quality monitoring  managers, road Duration
management and                                              Hyantar                              construction
disposal of solid and                                                                            planners and
liquid wastes from road                                                                         laborers to
construction                                                                                     receive training
in application
of the Best
Practice
Manual
Alteration of         N     Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest Enterprises Water course  Training in Best Construction Medium
drainage/natural            Forest Road Construction.       / Hyantar        alterations monitored Practice     Duration /
hydrological regime         Watershed Component activities??                 by WMBs             Manual         ongoing
Water
training??
Slope instability and  N    Implement Best Practice Manual for  Forest Enterprises Visual evidence,  Training in Best Construction Medium
landslides                  Forest Road Construction, e.g.,  / I lyantar     erosion,            Practice       Duration /
regulation for construction on steep             sedimentation       Manual         Ongoing
slopes.
Increased noise,      N     Assessment of cumulative impacts of Forest       Noise pollution,    Driving skills  Construction Medium
disturbance and             roads on surrounding areas,     Enterprises,     number of accidents  training      Duration /
accidents from forestry     especially populated sites.     Hyantar                                             Ongoing
traffic on village          Consultation with local communities
roads/public roads          for siting of roads.
EN VISO\\1E\ IAL RESOURCEES NtA NAGENIE\I    WORLD BANK / TACSJ0lIN i EN\ IRPNM UN AL PROGRANI
71



Impact                      Mitigation / Best Practice     Institutional    Monitoring         Training       Timing      Cost
Responsibility
Visual impacts        N     Good site management.           Forest          N/A                N/A            Ongoing     Medium
Implement Best Practice Manual, e.g. Enterprise/
not to build roads less than X meters Hayantar
from main road, buffer zones around
water courses and lakes etc
Increased risk of illegal N  Enforce anti-illegal logging activities, Marz level PIU  Continual monitoring N/A  Ongoing   Medium
harvesting of wood and      empowerment of local forest staff  IIyantar     by spot checks,
non-wood forest             etc, see activities under Section 7.7.1.        enforcement of fines,
products from increased                                                     revenue collected
access.                                                                     from fines
Income generation:    P     Employment of local population  Forest Enterprise  Number employed,  Specific     Ongoing     Low
employment                 should be maximized, where       / Hlyantar      community          training
possible providing long-term jobs  Marx level PIU  unemployment     provided to
with training.                                  statistics          employees
1.6  Independent certification and auditing of the Zikatar experimental and demonstration forest
N/A
1.7  Innovative methods of biodiversity conservation applied in forest management on state, community, private and reserved forest
land
N/A
1.8   Restore and strengthen operational capacities of forest service (Hyantar), Ministry of Nature Protection and villages involved in project
operations
N/A
2.              toies jr susu.i bLe fare* i
,  eablsedln'hy          d   n   ff   y    n    3r     b   E    F,      i   iE,         A                                            '   -:
1    Retorm and adapt legal trnior k for sumta inble tore t manigement, brodiversit) con.er ation and conmmunal inol emennt
N/A
2.2   Develop national forest policy, strategy and program
N/A
2.3   Restructure forest administration, including separation of administrative and commercial functions
N/A
2.4  Introduce innovative marketing and pricing methods
Freeing-up the market  n    Ensure enforcement procedures in  Hyantar, Marz  Quantity of wood  N/A            Design /    Low
may result in an            place, legislation for private and  level PIU   products gathered                 ongoing
increase in felling        communal ownership                               from the forest.
activities in the short
term.
ENVIRON MN I ALRESOURC S MANAGEMENF         WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINI ENVIRONMEN I AL PROGRAM
72



Impact                     Mitigation/ Best Practice       Institutional    Monitoring         Training       Timing      Cost
Responsibility
Income generation:    P    Implement innovative market and  PIU, Ministry of  Annual State revenue N/A        Design /    None
revenue to                 pricing schemes, enhancement     Nature          from forest taxes.                Ongoing
communities, private       measures outlined below.         Protection,     Export revenues.
sector and to State                                         Hyantar,
2.5   Launch program against illegal logging and corruption including strengthening of inspection services
Increase revenue to the  P  Empowerment of I lyantar, State  PIU            Annual State revenue N/A          Design /    Low
State budget               Reserve staff and local communities. I lyantar   from forest taxes and             Ongoing
Link with the anti-corruption project.          activities.
2.6   Develop and implement training program for key forest stakeholders including participatory management and planning methods
N/A
2.7   Develop Zikatar center for demonstration and dissemination of environmental education for foresters and students
Construction impacts  n    See Construction Management Plan, FREC, Marz level Soil, air and water  Training in best Construction Medium
(air, water, noise, solid  in Watershed Component, Section  PIU             quality            practice for   Duration
and liquid waste)           6.5.1.                                                             construction.
Income generation:    P    Ensure transparent recruitment, with FREC, Marz level Number employed,  N/A        Design /    None
employment                 gender equality, where possible  PIU             community                         Ongoing
ensure long-term jobs provided.                  unemployment
statistics
Note: the cost of implementation of the Best Practice for Forest Road Construction, may have higher short-term costs compared
with current practices, but in the long term will reduce costs through efficient planning, lower maintenance costs etc.
Glossary:
Hayantar is the state-owned Closed Joint Stock Comiipany (ARMFOREST) currently responsiblefor the core part of tieforestfilnd land in
Armenia.
Kolkhoz is the nn7ame given to co-operativefarnms operating on conmmunity owned land during the Soviet era.
Marz is thie term usedfor a region of Arnmenia. Project is focusing on7 Tavoush and Gegharkuniik
Sovklioz is the name given to statefarrms during the Soviet era. Thley were even operating on non-state owned lands.
ENVIRRONM EN [AL RESOURCES MANACEMEN I       WVORLD BANK / lACIS JOI\ I EN%'IRONME\ I AL PROCRAM
73



7.6.1          Best Practice Manualfor Forest Road Construction, Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
issue/' nIpact Analksis
Environmental impacts of forest road construction and maintenance.
Best Practice, Mitigation
The FMC project description outlines mitigation measures, such as the undertaking of an
EA prior to road construction and the use of the EA Sourcebook Update on Biodiversity
and EA, and of the World Bank's web-based toolkit for the treatment of biodiversity in EA.
However, in addition to these mitigation measures, the ERM EA team recommend the
development and application of a Best Practice Manual (BPM) for Forest Road
Construction. The BPM can be developed based on the existing Road Construction manual
that exists for general road construction in Armenia available from Central Administration
and incorporate other BPMs developed in Europe and North America, for example the
BPM for Forest Roads in Romania (currently being devised for another World Bank
project), adjusted to reflect the situation in Armenia. The BPM will consider the
construction of roads in the following stages:
* planing and siting, and design (for example, review terrain, water courses, inventory of
tree extraction, soil type, rainfall, alternative routes, buffer zones, biodiversity and
wildlife corridors);
* construction (e.g. culverts, bridges, surface run-off, worker health and safety, cost);
* use and maintenance (number and size of vehicles, vehicle maintenance to minimize
fuel or oil spills, cost of and equipment/materials for maintenance); and
* closure (especially for skid trails, secondary forest roads, how to revert back - replanting
of trees etc).
One of the primary tasks in developing the BPM for forest road construction is to actually
define what constitutes a forest road, e.g. a primary road, secondary road and skid trail.
The implementation of the BPM will also take account of the long-term maintenance (cost,
procedures etc) of the roads constructed and rehabilitated.
In4Stuticnzal Responsiiility
The BPM should be devised by FREC with Hyantar and the Forest Enterprises. The PIU
should ensure, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Nature Protection, that the BPM
is recognized in the Forest Code.
MoLnitoring
Monitoring should be responsibility of the MoNP and Hyantar with the assistance of FREC.
Under SFM, the forest enterprises (state and private) will be required to produce
management plans, both long-term (5 to 10 years) and annual. It is recommended that no
forest activities be permitted to take place prior to the approval by MoNP/Hyantar, of a
SFM plan. The annual plans should only be approved if road construction in the current
year have been done in line with the BPM.
Incentive schemes can also be used whereby forest enterprises pay an annual bond which is
refundable if the SFM annual plan is achieved with minimal environmental and social
impacts.
Training
MoNP/Hyanatar staff need to be trained in best practice manual and monitoring.
ENV7RONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TAOS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
75



7.6.2          Independent certification and auditing of suistainableforest management
activities
I/ir, 7rl a I .- nali1  I
Environmental impacts of felling activities and unsustainable forest management practices
through illegal cutting activities.
Mitigation, Ft PraicI,;c
All State Forest Enterprises and private companies, should be subject to independent
certification and auditing by either national or international certifying bodies, such as the
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
The international certification process has a set of criteria and indicators used for
assessment and monitoring. These criteria and indicators can be adapted to the Armenian
conditions and applied.
An advantage of advocating the use of international criteria is that it enables the Armenian
industry to use the certification qualification in European markets, which are increasingly
demanding certified products. Certification requires the clarification and monitoring of
the chain of custody and can therefore be used to assist in curtailing and monitoring illegal
cutting activities.
Institutional RC-,p"sit'llt,J
The MoNP/Hyantar can encourage the application of certification and independent
auditing through the assessment of the annual SFM plans. The PIU can assist the forest
enterprises with accessing national and international certifying bodies.
Monitoring should be the responsibility of MoNP/ Hyantar in conjunction with the national
and international certifying bodies.
Training
National certifying bodies (if exist) can be trained in the international standards and staff of
Hyantar and MoNP can be trained in the international criteria and indicators used in the
certification process. These criteria and indicators can also be used in the design and
monitoring of SFM plans.
The following two management plans outline recommendations for
enhancing the positive impacts of the FMC.
7.6.3          Income Generation
I f 41, ,   ; ?I'JmI ;:   \I,lhll ,:.
Income generation through employment, access to non-wood and wood products etc.
Aa-,1'ahooltl S,,t P raail,,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCac MANAGEMENT            WORLD BANK / TACIS JoiNT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
76



Many of the activities in the forest management component provide opportunities for
r . I  .-A  1. A X1'.     -J i  Lr  I  Forlongtermsustainability, it is recormended that,
where possible, cemmornity mnembers be given tong-teri eznplovmnent through. for
example, forest enterprises, instead of 'cash for planting trees'. Additionally, it is essential
th,at the ernploymnet prtcedure i, transparent and adequately addresses genider equality
issues. As with thle Watetshed Component, it is also reeormnertded that employment
opportunities be expanded to include many of the activities required for environmental
rnonitoring and mastagernent,
To ensure that the poorest of the community tnembers are reached, employment
opportunities should he targeted towarts this group of the population.
Marz level PIU sholid monitor the employmerint procedures and number of jobs created.
It is recommended that the.se employment opporturities be created and advertised within
each watershed. Applicants should be short-listed and iiterviewed, following standard
procedures bv the central PIU.
All persons employed should be reviewed by the PIU initially afteY 3 rtonths, thert after 6
miionths and then on an annual basis, in conjunction with Ifyantar and the Forest Enterprise
management where appropriate. Where it is found that the work is etther not being carried
out or Is tiot of a sufficient standard, then the persons involved should be subject to
disciplinary proceedings ultimately leading to the withdrawal of their contract.
At the employerlevel, the employmentprocedures should be reviewed on a sirialar basis.
Incentives to provide local employment should be a zionditiooatity in thte annual SFPM pian.
Once the bestcandidate has been identified, an assessment of their individual training
needsi should be made by the PIU and forest enterprise (state anid privaite).
Training should also be provided to the employer orgariiation orn issues such as
employnient law atid conditions.
7f6.4          Increased Revenue to the State
I *w            -I! l
Currently the State forgoes revenue from loss of reveute from illegal forest activitiee,
ineffective taxation system etc.
The removal of market restriction!s, for example price setting by and sale of forest prodiucts,
by Hfyantar (anid possibly the State Procurement Agency in the near future). will provide
an opportunity for the State to generate increased tevenuers. The developnment of, for
enhance the income received bg the State from forest production activities.
Other incomze increasing measures include:
* auctioning of forest entezrprises
*  forest charges ased on sturnpage value
tsviscR,ic;MFsAL 5FOnSmcEMAtAtssMFst           iS OiZ.D 5;..ii/ rsstst,.vin E'e'ii.siNir,u.Pxocsv,n
77



* market and price innovations
* taxation payments from private logging companies
* curtailment of illegal logging
legislation and enforcement of tax payments
The MoNP/Hyantar, working with the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Forest
Economist in the PIU should work to implement the above recommendations. The key to
success will be the revision and enforcement of the legislation.
The State budget contribution by the forest sector will be the obvious source to see if the
revenue generation measures are being successfully implemented. Continual domestic
market analysis, monitoring of prices and production levels will provide an overview of
the market and price innovation measures introduced.
Training
The training requirements will vary depending on what measures are introduced.
7.7            IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT
In addition to highlighting the environmental and social impacts of the
project, it is however, felt that within the contexts of this project it is
important to additionally identify and mitigate a set of process based risks
which, in the opinion of the ERM team, have the potential to seriously
jeopardize the component's overall effectiveness. The FMC project design
has highlighted some key risks to the project, however, further process
based risks are discussed here below, with proposed mitigation measures.
To ease the reader's appraisal of these recommendations, they have been
provided in the same format as the stand-alone management plans in
Section 7.6.
7.7.1          Illegal cutting activities are not curtailed
I -imO "J,11%;iL I
Rapid depletion of Armenia's forest resources accelerated by extensive illegal cutting
activities.
Best I 'r,;L,C / l iLi\ 1zat.,/.
Activity 2.5 in the FMC project design involves the launching of a program against illegal
logging and corruption, which includes the strengthening of the inspection services. This
issue is critical to the successful implementation of the Project. Some recommendations for
mitigation measures are:
* Anti-corruption program s
* Statement of support from the Government
* Raise public sector salaries and benefits
* Monitoring and enforcement
* Empowerment of Hyantar and Forest Reserve Staff
ENpORONMIENTAL RESOURCES M ,NAC;FMENT       WORLD B \NK / TACS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PRCORAM
78



Community ownership of resource will assist in controlling illegal activities as the
communities will have a greater willingness to protect their forest resources.
In,ttiitio,nall Respontisibity
The responsibility for the resolution of the problem lies ultimately with the Government of
Armenia, who need to make a clear statement of support to the whole country.
Additionally, empowerment of Hyantar and the MoNP is essential.
7.7.2          Forest activities, e.g. thinnings and introduction of new technologies such
as cable cranes, takes place prior to the development & introduction of
SFM guidelines, training, appropriate legislation and market development
IF.,Ue /IMip7ct
The FMC project design discusses the introduction of logging operations into currently
unlogged areas and of new technologies such as cable cranes. There is a risk that these new
activities and practices will be introduced before adequate training, legislative and market
support exists. This will result in areas being logged by inadequately skilled personnel and
with limited legislative support and market opportunities.
Besl Prachce,'AMitl..dhon
Whilst the FMC is designed to enable the legislation, market development and training to
occur in the first one to two years, the ERM team feel that some recommendations for the
implementation of the project should be made. These are:
* develop and adopt forest code with supporting regulations;
* develop effective market and pricing system;
* improve through training and enforcement current forest production activities;
 ensure implementation of sustainable forest management techniques, especially the
requirement to undertake a forest inventory before determining extraction rates
(AACs);
* ensure the full involvement of communities and private companies; and
* if unable to meet demand, then introduce logging in new areas using low impact
technologies such as cable cranes.
Where possible it is suggested that conditionalities be placed on the procurement of new
technologies such as cable cranes. For example, procurement should only occur after
demonstrable improvements in the practice of sustainable forest management, reduction in
corruption and black market activities, innovative market and pricing initiatives have been
introduced and the necessary legislation (forest code) and regulations have been devised
and enforced.
Intisttuhtioial Re:-on4bihlity
The PIU should ensure that the implementation of various activities is coordinated and will
effectively support sustainable forest management and not lead to an acceleration in forest
resource degradation.
7.7.3          Markets and prices are not established prior to the introduction of new
and expansion offorest activities - loggingfor the sake of logging and not
to meet a demand
1;iie/ Impact
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACIS JOiNT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
79



At present Hyantar determine the prices for all forest products, such as fuel wood and
sawn wood. If introduced, the State Procurement Agency may become the sole buyer of all
forest products produced, which will introduce a monopoly situation in the market. This
will result in a more rigid market structure and counteracts the Project activity to develop
new and innovative pricing and marketing systems. As highlighted in the FMC project
design, the wood processing industry is weak and poorly developed, thus providing a
limited market for forest product producers and there is a recognized need for a market-
orientated sustainable management of State forests.
FE t Practice/ A fir ,t,riol
For successful development of the Armenian forest industry there is a need to develop a
new and innovative marketing and pricing system before the introduction of new and
expansion of existing forest activities and especially before the introduction of new
technologies such as cable cranes.
It is essential that forests are logged not just for the sake of logging, but to supply a real
demand (i.e., not "if we don't log then the forest will rot").
Alongside the development of the market and pricing systems, it is essential to develop the
taxation systems to ensure that the Government of Armenia receives a fair share of the
value of the forest resource.
There is a systematic risk which results from weak and inadequate pricing policies at the
national level. Therefore fixing wood pricing regimes is an issue across the board which
has to be addressed at the macro structural level.
Within the constraint of the need for macro-level structural change, the PIU should be
responsible as far as possible, for ensuring that the market and pricing innovation schemes
are developed and implemented prior to enhanced logging activities, especially the in new
areas. The MoNP and Hyantar should work in close co-operation with the PIU in
developing appropriate taxation schemes (based on stumpage value) and auctioning
procedures for forest enterprises.
ENVIRONMENT,AL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT          WORLD BANK/ TACISJOINT ENVIRONNMENTAL PROCRAM
80



8           PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION
8.1         INTRODUCTION
This chapter comprises the EA of the Protected Areas Management and
Biodiversity Conservation component of the NRMPR project in Armenia.
The chapter is organized as follows:
* Section 8.2 Component Description;
* Section 8.3 Intended Impacts of this Component;
* Section 8.4 Implementation Process;
* Section 8.5 Identification of Environmental and Social Impacts;
* Section 8.6 Environmental Management Plan (for component); and
* Section 8.7 Implementation Risk Assessment (for component).
8.2         COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
The protected areas management component proposes to:
* improve the role of two key protected areas (Lake Sevan National Park,
1,500 sq. km, and Dilijan State Reserve, 290 sq. km) in conserving the
region's rich biodiversity and in generating revenue for local
communities and park maintenance; and
* ensure effective linkages are achieved with the investments under the
Community Based Natural Resources Management Component and
the State Forest Management Component.
Implementation of modem park management programs for the two
protected areas was defined as a priority in both the Biodiversity Strategy
and Action Plan (1998) and National Environmental Action Plan (1999). In
addition, the project aims to establish basic eco-tourism infrastructure,
including cultural heritage sites, in the protected areas and buffer zones.
The component activities have been divided into four categories:
* Strengthening of institutional capacity at the national level to
administer the system of protected areas and public awareness for
biodiversity conservation;
* Strengthening the management of Dilijan State Reserve and Lake
Sevan National Park;
* Establish basic infrastructure for park management;
 Establish a small grants program for community based activities in the
protected areas and their buffer zones.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROCRAM
81



At the time of the development of this Environmental Assessment, the
preparation of the protected areas management component was ongoing.
Therefore, the activities to be implemented under each category were not
yet fully defined. The preliminary set of activities listed below is based
upon the component description in the November 1 Draft Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), and consultations in Armenia with the
consultants preparing the component. This set of activities is referred to as
the Suib-components and Elements (See Box 8.1). The final set of activities will
depend on the results of the finalized protected areas component
description and the protected areas management plans to be developed
during project implementation.
Box 8.1        Sub-coinponents and Elemnents
Sub-Components
I    Strengthen institutional capacity at the national level
1.1  Strengthening of institutional and human resources capacity of the MoNP including:
*   Improved capacity of the MoNP to implement project activities specifically and
national biodiversity conservation programs and policies in general;
*   Improved thematic mapping and monitoring capacity for national biodiversity
conservation and specific protected areas; and
*   Implementation of a nation wide public awareness campaign to build awareness and
support for protected areas management and to mainstream biodiversity
conservation goals into the GOA national policy planning process.
1.2  Improving the national legal, policy and regulatory framework for protected areas and
biodiversity conservation including:
*   Clarification of policy and regulatory roles and responsibilities of the MoNP over
protected areas and biodiversity conservation relative to other national bodies;
*   Changes in existing policy, legal and institutional framework that would contribute
to more efficient protection of Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan State Reserve
and other protected areas in the country;
*   Changes in the existing legal framework to capture the relevant use and non-use
values of biodiversity in protected areas and retain a portion of revenues to sustain
long-term biodiversity conservation programs and enhanced capacities; and
*   Improved legal and regulatory flexibility to change protected area boundaries and
zoning, consistent with evolving protected area management goals.
1.3  Grant funding for applied research to support implementation of protected areas
management. Eligible topics will include:
*   Species and ecosystem research to support more effective management planning,
zoning and monitoring consistent with protecting globally important biodiversity;
*   Studies to quantify the total economic value of biodiversity in the protected areas,
and to foster socio-economic development and poverty reduction through carefully
managed and low-impact uses of local natural resources;
*   Studies to facilitate local resource allocation and access, develop more efficient
policies for benefit-sharing to local communities, and increase revenues for
sustainable financing of protected areas.
1.4  Strengthening of regional transboundary co-operation with Georgia in protected areas
management
2    Strengthen the management of Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLD BANK / TACISCJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
82



Sub-Components
2.1  Preparation and implementation of new protected area management plans including:
*   Implementation of new management plans in consultation with local and national
stakeholders
*   Rationalized land zoning plan to accommodate multiple uses in protected areas
*   Development and implementation of carefully managed and low-impact economic
activities (i.e., eco-tourism) in certain zones within protected areas
*   Implementation of appropriate management interventions at the site level, in
consultation with local and national stakeholders
2.2  Improving protected areas management capacity including:
*   Improved law enforcement and resource use monitoring within the protected area;
*   Improved scientific research and biodiversity monitoring carried out by the
protected area staff; and
*   Improved communication with communities living within and adjacent to protected
areas.
2.3  Environmental education and public awareness including:
*   Development of appropriate approaches and education materials for community
participation and outreach and general awareness raising; and
*   Implementation of local environmental awareness programs.
43-   Eb     tfor.                   . -.              . !  4'rj
3.1  Rehabilitation of protected area/park administration offices at Dilijan and Lake Sevan
3.2  Rehabilitation of suitable structures at Dilijan and Lake Sevan to serve as modern visitor,
education and training centers
3.3  Provision of suitable infrastructure to facilitate low-impact tourism development in
appropriate zones in each protected area (e.g., kiosks, signage, recreation sites, toilets, etc)
3.4  Upgrading of roads associated with high value cultural heritage and low-impact
recreation sites
3.5  Construct and upgrade hiking trails in areas suitable for low-impact recreation
3.6  Provide fencing and gates to manage access to highly sensitive areas
The community projects financed by the grant program will be developed and
implemented by local communities, NGOs and individuals living around the two
protected areas. The program would finance model projects or provide seed funding for
sustainable activities that can develop an alternative income stream for local communities
while mitigating pressures in the natural resources base.
8.3           INTENDED IMPACTS OF THIS COMPONENT
The Protected Areas Management and Biodiversity Conservation
component is the most "environmental" component of the project and is
intended to create positive environmental and social impacts. In addition,
the majority of activities defined within the sub-components are either
institutional/regulatory or management planning related. Therefore, most
of the activities are conceived and being designed to have entirely positive
or neutral environmental and social impacts. Furthermore, the activities
incorporate mitigation measures for any anticipated potential minor
environmental or social impacts that some of the activities may cause.
In this sense, this component is quite different than the two previous
components. We have therefore chosen a different structure for this
chapter. After a listing of the intended positive impacts, we have identified
a number of potential minor environmental and social impacts which to a
large extent will be mitigated by the project design itself. Where necessary
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT          WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENMRONMENTAL PROGRAM
83



we have developed extra management plans and mitigating measures to
enhance this process. An EMP table for this component was not prepared
as potential negative or cumulative impacts of the activities defined in this
component should be inconsequential to non-existent.
The intended positive environmental and social impacts of the sub-
component activities are summarized in Box 8.2.
Box 8.2       Summnary of intended positive environmental and social impacts
I Strengthen institutional capacity at the national level
Improved legal and regulatory framework for protected area management.
Strategic planning and integration of biodiversity into sectoral policies.
Strengthened stakeholders institutional capacity.
Sustainable management practices developed.
Monitoring unit established and monitoring improved.
Better communication equipment and transport provided.
Environmental education implemented and environmental awareness raised.
Transboundary co-operation on protected areas with Georgia improved.
2 Strengthen the management of Dilijan State Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park
Protected areas at Lake Sevan National Park and Dilijan Nature Reserve with
management plans and new zoning under implementation.
Enhanced management of protected areas through public-private partnerships.
Equitable sharing of financial benefits with local communities.
Revenues for sustainable management and conservation program s generated.
Stabilization of key threatened ecosystems and critical habitats in the project area.
In -situ conservation of biological resources improved.
Monitoring of key endangered species as indicators for ecosystems regeneration.
Illegal hunting and logging decreased.
Public awareness raised and community involved in biodiversity conservation.
Increased protection of cultural and biodiversity values.
Short- and long-term income generation provided.
3 Establish basic infrastructure for park management
Short and long-term income generating opportunities provided.
Facilities for visitors, education and management improved.
In -situ conservation of biological resources improved.
Strictly protected areas better protected to reduced access.
Roads and trails improved.
Cultural heritage sites upgraded.
4  Community grant program (small grants program for community based activities in the
protected areas and their buffer zones)
Short and long-term income generating opportunities provided.
Equitable sharing of financial benefits with local comrnmunities.
Increase awareness of biodiversity values and involvement of communities in
biodiversity conservation.
Further degradation of resources (forest, arable and grazing lands) mitigated.
The project will also support a work fare program, which will pay poor
community members in cash for the labor necessary to support
investments in protected areas infrastructure, nature protection and
conservation.
ENDVIRONMENTAL. RF_OURCES MANAGEMENET       WORLD BANK / TACISJOCMNT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
84



All the work under this component is planned to be carried out in Dilijan
State Reserve and Sevan National Park. However, there might be
opportunities to extend the eco-tourism activities to certain areas outside
the protected areas during project implementation. In addition, the two
other project components also address biodiversity conservation issues
and aim to implement biodiversity related activities outside as well as
inside the protected areas.
8.4         IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
8.4.1       General Implementation of the Component
A particular implementation process for the protected areas management
component has not been designed yet. However, it is clear that the first
two years of project implementation will mainly focus on development of
the protected areas management plans, zoning, necessary legal and
institutional changes, development of a screening process for potential
economic activities and mitigation measures for any potential negative
environmental impacts, and extensive training to build implementation
capacity at all levels.
Implementation of economic activities is not expected to be started until
the zoning and management plans are in place.
8.4.2        Community Grants Program
The potential activities to be carried out under the Community Grants
Program sub-component will be defined during the first year of project
implementation working in close collaboration with NGOs and local
communities. It is expected that activities will include sustainable activities
that have the potential to develop an alternative income stream for local
communities and at the same time mitigate pressures on their natural
resources base. Examples are activities such as the development of model
or pilot projects for sustainable grazing and forestry practices with direct
incremental biodiversity benefits, or the provision of seed funding for
activities that have the potential to develop alternative livelihoods which
reduce pressure on protected areas and their biological resources. The
program will also finance biodiversity conservation initiatives (bird
counts, training hunters to avoid rare species etc).
8.5         IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
8.5.1        Potential Impacts
As mentioned above, the proposed activities in this component are all
intended to create positive environmental and social impacts. However,
some minor potential negative environmental and social impacts which
the project design will aim to address can be identified and are listed
below. These concern mainly minor potential impacts from increased
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOLRCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACaS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
85



usage and related economic activities, including eco-tourism, and the
construction and rehabilitation of buildings, roads and trails. The
cumulative effects of these activities can expected to be very low.
Furthermore, many of the project activities proposed will provide
mitigating measures for these potential impacts. In some cases these
activities provide opportunities to be enhanced by management plans
developed specifically for this component or by referring to management
plans developed for the other components (c.g., construction, road and
trail rehabilitation). These management plans are presented in Section 8.6.
The tables below list the component elements which might potentially
cause impacts. Other component elements which comprise effective
mitigation measures are listed in the right column of the tables.
Eiw;ironenlal X llfll 111',7  0S.fcon4ractrionDi
Contributing Elements               Mitigating Elements
3.1  Rehabilitation of protected        Strengthen the management of Dilijan State
area/park administration offices at  Reserve and Lake Sevan National Park
Dilijan and Lake Sevan
3.2 Rehabilitation of suitable structures
at Dilijan and Lake Sevan to serve
as modern visitor, education and
training centers
3.3  Provision of suitable infrastructure
to facilitate low-impact tourism
development in appropriate zones
in each protected area (e.g., kiosks,
signage, recreation sites, toilets,
etc)
3.4 Upgrading of roads associated
with high value cultural heritage
and low-impact recreation sites
3.5 Construct and upgrade hiking
trails in areas suitable for low-
impact recreation
3.6 Provide fencing and gates to
manage access to highly sensitive
areas
Potential environmental impacts of construction include: erosion and
sedimentation, water quality impacts, noise, dust and air pollution,
damage to existing installations, worker health and safety effects,
disruption of local residents, disruption of agricultural activities, and
wildlife disturbance. Where construction activities necessitate the setting-
up of temporary construction yards, there is risk of permanent alteration of
land caused by fuel spills and topsoil compaction from heavy vehicles. In
addition, construction may cause damage to biodiversity and cause
disruption of habitats of protected species where sites for new structures
are poorly chosen.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT        WORLD BANK / TACISTJOINT EN;VIRONTMENTAL PROGRAM
86



Inimpacts of increased presslLre onr environmental anZd cultural touirism sites and
services
Contributing Elements               Mitigating Elements
2.1  Preparation and implementation  1.1  Strengthening of institutional and human
of new protected area               resources capacity of the MoNP
management plans
3.1   Rehabilitation of protected   1.2  Improving the national legal, policy and
area/park administration offices at  regulatory framework for protected areas
Dilijan and Lake Sevan              and biodiversity conservation
3.2   Rehabilitation of suitable    1.3   Grant funding of applied research to
structures at Dilijan and Lake      support implementation of protected areas
Sevan to serve as modern visitor,   management
education and training centers
Construct Sevan visitor and
education facilities
3.3   Provision of suitable infrastructure  2.1  Preparation and implementation of new
to facilitate low-impact tourism    protected area management plans
development in appropriate zones
in each protected area (e.g., kiosks,
signage, recreation sites, toilets,
etc)
3.4  Upgrading of roads associated  2.2  Improving protected areas management
with high value cultural heritage   capacity
and low-impact recreation sites
3.5  Construct and upgrade hiking   2.3   Environmental education and public
trails in areas suitable for low-   awareness
impact recreation
3.6  Provide fencing and gates to   3.1   Establish basic infrastructure for park
manage access to highly sensitive  to  management
areas                          3.6
4    Community grant program (for   4     Community grant program (for community
community based activities in the   based activities in the
protected area and their buffer     protected area and their buffer
zones)                              zones)
Environmental impacts
The assistance provided with marketing, combined with increased access
to environmental and cultural tourism sites will potentially lead to an
increased number of visitors to these sites. The main negative impacts
likely to result from such increased pressure result from improper disposal
of solid wastes and sewage, changes in land use and damage to the
cultural sites. Improper disposal of waste can lead to spread of diseases,
affecting flora and fauna as well as the adjacent communities. The pressure
on habitats of wildlife will be increased and the improved access to remote
sites may increase the level of illegal activities in these areas (poaching,
logging etc.).
Social impacts
The generation of economic benefits to local communities may be limited if
the people employed in the tourism industry are employed are not from
the local community. There could also be an economic impact if the goods
ENVIRONM1ENTAL RESOUIRCES MANAGEMENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
87



used to service the tourists trade are entirely sourced from outside of the
local community.
There can be a degradation of the local cultural heritage and a loss of a
sense of cultural identity if there is undue commercialization and
modification of local arts, crafts and traditions. Tourism areas may become
unattractive because of inappropriate design of tourist facilities, garish
advertising signs and littering by tourists.
Mitigation
The sub-components also provide many activities providing mitigating
measures for the above listed potential negative impacts. When properly
implemented, the new protected areas management plans, stakeholder
consultation, improved human capacity etc. should all ensure that the
above listed impacts do not occur. In addition, an eco-tourism
management plan is suggested to enhance mitigation in Section 8.6.2.
EnviirOnlirtell i,7tnLacts of road rl'/rabllialbnl in andfieldI tradil dezvloplzirnt
Contributing Elements              Mitigating Elements
3.4  Upgrading of roads associated  2.1  Preparation, implementation and
with high value cultural heritage  monitoring of new protected area
and low-impact recreation sites    management plans
3.5  Construct and upgrade hiking   2.2  Improved protected areas management
trails in areas suitable for low-  capacity
impact recreation
Newly constructed trails may cause erosion and the increased human
pressure may effect water quality. In addition, improvement of existing
roads and trails and creation of new trails cause the potential risk for
easing the access to previously inaccessible areas for illegal uses (e.g.
cuttings, livestock pasturing, unsustainable collection of wild plants and
animal poaching). Soil erosion may occur through heavier use of the trails
and roads or through poor siting. New and rehabilitated field tracks may
cause disturbance to wildlife and an increased pressure on biodiversity in
general. Rural life may be disturbed by the increased visitation.
The proper design and implementation of the new protected area
management plan will provide mitigating measures and ensure proper
siting. To enhance this, further mitigating measures for road and trail
construction are described in Section 8.6.3.
En;'iroitueltnal i,n'pac5 o.f incrnaseel COLIOnIIC a17tiCiZ1L-
Contributing Elements              Mitigating Elements
2.1  Preparation and implementation  1.1  Strengthening of institutional and human
of new protected area              resources capacity of the MoNP
management plans
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT       WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL KROCRAM
88



4    Community grant program        1.2  Improving the national legal, policy and
regulatory framework for protected areas
and biodiversity conservation
1.3  Grant funding of applied research to
support implementation of protected areas
management
2.1. Preparation and implementation of new
protected area management plans
2.2  Improving protected areas management
capacity
2.3  Environmental education and public
awareness
3.3  Provision of suitable infrastructure to
facilitate low-impact tourism development
in appropriate zones in each protected area
(e.g., kiosks, signage, recreation sites,
toilets, etc)
3.6  Provide fencing and gates to manage
access to highly sensitive areas
Environmental impacts
Increased economic activities to be developed in the protected areas may
cause a number of potential negative environmental impacts. These
potentially include increased: grazing, harvesting of wood and non-wood
forest products, soil erosion and reduction of productive capacity, pressure
on and destruction of biodiversity, disturbance of wildlife, environmental
and human health impacts through use of fertilizers and pesticides,
adverse impacts due to bad siting etc. In general, increasing human
pressure on natural resources poses a continuous threat to biological
resources.
Mitigation
A large number of the activities proposed in the protected area component
should serve to mitigate the minor, potential negative impacts listed
above. Mitigating activities include the implementation of the new zoning
and protected areas management plans, enhanced capacity and public
awareness, community participation and studies which should define
which activities would provide the least impact. We suggest however, that
when and where impacts may occur from increased grazing or community
forestry activities etc., that best practices as defined in the other two
components and the additional best practices with a particular focus on
economic activities in protected areas, as listed in Section 8.6.4 will be
applied.
8.5.2         Positive Impacts to be Enhanced
As explained above, the main objectives of the protected areas
management component are environmental and social in nature. The
related intended positive impacts are listed in Section 8.5.1 above.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT         WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
89



However, the positive income generating impact has the potential to be
further developed as outlined below.
As in the two other components, the protected areas component offers
many activities which can be included in the workfare program. It is
recommended that these opportunities should be expanded to include not
only low-skilled labor for construction but also environmental monitoring
and management activities.
8.6            ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
8.6.1          Construction Management Plan
Environmental impacts of construction
B,o Pra   i te  !i c  ' tro;i
All sub-contractors should be subject to contractual clauses to manage the environmental
impacts. In addition, clauses should be entered into the contract to allow the PIU to
respond to the results of monitoring activities, as outlined below.
n-it -i,tl i.nal Rt pon;r  Pibilu
The PIU should, depending upon individual construction contractors' scope of work,
incorporate an appropriate set of clauses into each contract let.
The Marz level PIU should monitor the construction activities through random spot-checks
(at least monthly during long construction periods, or at least once during shorter
construction activities). Where violations of the contractual agreements are noted the
central PIU should be notified. The PIU should formally notify the contractors of the
violations, outline the necessary corrective measures and set a period for correction. Where
this is not adhered to, it is recommended that contractors be subject to contractual penalties
(i.e., payment with held) or in severe cases the contracts should be terminated.
It is also recommended that a final site inspection should be carried out before final
payment is made, and in cases where the sites have not been properly cleaned up and or
restored, final payment should be withheld until such time that this has been carried out
satisfactorily.
Training
In order to avoid the need for further training it is recommended that the Marz level PIU
include an individual with experience in environmental management and auditing as part
of the team, or engage an external contracted for a fixed term to undertake the activities
required to monitor construction contractors.
8.6.2          Eco-tourism Management Plan
l 'SiC IiUiti.v
Increased pressure on protected areas.
Best Prja itl  A I,e,i,n
ENvRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT            WORID BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMIENTAL PROGRAM
90



An eco-tourism management plan should be developed for each area where eco-tourism is
planned. Developments can only take place in the especially identified recreational zones in
the protected area management plans. The eco-tourism management plan should identify
all of those areas in the recreation zones of the protected areas which are closed for tourists
because of their particular importance as wildlife habitats or biodiversity value. In
addition, the areas that are available for development should be zoned according to the
maximum carrying capacity. Siting for construction of kiosk, camp sites, interpretation
boards, the Sevan visitor center and any other possible construction should be done aiming
at the lowest possible environmental impacts possible. Proper plans should be developed
for waste and sewage disposal.
The plan should include measures for the maintenance and up-keep of the eco-tourism
zones and assign responsibilities to park rangers for ensuring that the maintenance
measures are carried out.
Legal and institutional arrangements will need to be made for charging fees (multiple
pricing schemes for foreigners and nationals) for entrance to the parks, eco-tourism zones
and cultural sites. A fair percentage of the revenues should flow back to the protected area
management to cover operational costs as well as further investment for enhancement and
future development of the sites. Cash flow back to the protected areas management is
critical for the sustainability of the project. The level of the percentage that should flow
back is a policy decision. Ideally it should range from 50-80%.
A hub-system can be used linking the various sites with a central point/visitor center
where tourists can acquire information about acconmmodation, the sites themselves, hiking
routes, etc. The plan should build on already existing cultural sites and link these with
trails which aim to optimize the overall experience for the visitor. Any construction of
campsites or picnic places, etc. should be carried out by using natural materials and
environmentally friendly and aesthetically attractive designs.
There is a key need for marketing activities. The impediments for market access would
include:
*   Local community awareness and market information
*   Competition.
The project would facilitate market access activities through training. Comprehensive and
clear printed materials, guidebooks and maps should be developed. A professional website
should be developed and Armenian tourist officials and local tour operators should
participate in international tourist fairs.
In h tu thonal Respons;ibihtl't
The development of the plan will be organized through the PIU. In order to ensure the
long-term viability of an eco-tourism management plan, it is necessary that the plan be
developed in a wholly participatory manner. It should be presented as the response to the
increased poverty, under-developed tourism opportunities and lack of financial resources
for protected area management. The short- and long-term individual benefits (financial or
otherwise) should be clearly presented to the communities and park management. By
involving communities, they will understand tourism, be better able to cope with this
development and participate in its benefits.
Once support has been obtained for the scheme amongst tour operators and local
communities and the protected areas management, the protected areas management and
other key individuals should, with technical assistance from the PIU, develop the eco-
tourism management plan and appoint responsibilities to inspectors/park rangers.
ENVRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT             WORLD BANK / TACIS JOIN ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
91



The necessary legislation and institutional framework will have to be put into place at
central government level to ensure possibilities of flow back of revenues into park
management.
The park rangers would be responsible for monitoring of the tourism areas which should
take place monthly throughout the tourism season. Penalties should be imposed upon
those who violate the eco-tourism management plan. Violations include improper waste
disposal, destruction of sites, non-payment of park fees, etc.
Tren, n
It is recommended that all stakeholders including tour operators, park management local
communities, and key village personnel should be given extensive training in eco-tourism
management. Training topics would include marketing, training of guides, interpretation,
hospitality services, etc.
8.6.3          Road and Trail Rehabilitation and Construction Management Plan
f-.  1,,e /1 ./cf
Environmental impacts from trail and road construction.
% fit :ili.nl,
Section 7 of the EA which addresses the State Forest Management component proposes that
a key mitigation measure should be the development of a forest road construction and
maintenance best practice manual tailored to the Armenian conditions. Where roads and
trails in the protected areas will be rehabilitated or where new trails will be developed, the
works should be done according to the standards proposed in this manual. Siting of new
trails should be done on the basis of protected areas management plans and eco-tourism
management plans and should ensure the lowest possible impact on the protected areas.
This includes building on the network of existing trails and avoiding critical habitats of key
protected species. Siting should be based on a sound assessment of the biodiversity in the
areas identified. In addition, mitigation measures such as safeguards against illegal
logging, illegal pasture use and corruption are required to ensure that the increased access
caused by new trails or improved roads does not cause new problems or impacts.
Activities would include improvement of governance, awareness building amongst the
local population and strict law enforcement.
The protected areas management should oversee the rehabilitation of the roads and trails
and carry out the siting and supervision of new trail development in co-operation with the
PIU taking the road construction and maintenance best practice manual into account.
% 1t'i I , t ri',.^
The Marz level PIU should monitor the road and trail building activities and confirm that
siting is in accordance with the management plans. Where violations of the management
plans and road construction best practice manual are noted, the central PIU should be
notified.
Traininc
Protected areas management should receive training on implementation of the road
construction and maintenance best practice manual and sustainable trail development.
8.6.4          Econo,nic Activities Management Plan in Protected Areas
I/.,,,  JhtbI Lt .1 tt,1114;S
ENvIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT         WORLD BANK / TACISJOINI ENVIRONNIENTAL PROGRAM
92



Environmental impacts from economic activities
Alitigahon
The economic activities to be developed under the protected areas component will all be
aimed at small-scale local initiatives related to biodiversity conservation aiming to reduce
pressure on the protected areas and biological resources while at the same time improving
local livelihoods and enhancing socio-economic development. Therefore, the project design
in itself will provide mitigating measures for any potential negative impacts.
Economic activities to be introduced under the protected areas component, through the
Community Grants Program or otherwise should only be carried out in the designated
economic zones, laid out in the zoning and protected area management plans that will be
developed under the project.
In addition, we recommend the development of a screening process to select the economic
activities which will have the least negative environmental impacts. A number of factors
should be considered in this screening process. Proposed activities should, inter alia:
- be small scale and benefit local communities;
- promote sustainable solutions to income generation;
- not include the wide scale use of pesticides and fertilizers; and
- not include any major construction.
Where they are related to eco-tourism, the eco-tourism management plan should be
applied.
If and where the economic activities to be developed in the economic zones or the activities
supported by the Small Grants Program lead to the sustainable provision of wood and tree
products or to increased grazing, there are potential negative environmental impacts on the
protected areas. These will have to be managed in accordance with the sustainable
community forestry, and grazing management plans designed in Section 6.5.
Instiffhon1l responszInlity
The protected areas management in co-operation with the MoNP and the PIU will have the
responsibility for development of the new zoning and protected areas management plans.
The Community Grants Program and the screening process for eligible economic activities
should be developed by the Marz level PIU in co-operation with NGOs and local
communities.
.blonrJornng
The PIU should monitor the development of the screening process and in co-operation with
the Marz level PIU monitor the implementation of economic activities.
Training
Training for protected areas management and local communities on sustainable
development of economic activities.
8.6.5          Expansion of workfare program
Isue l'n pacl
Increase direct income generation.
Best Practicel/Mitigation
Implementation of the protected areas management plans, the eco-tourism management
plan and the improved infrastructure development should make use of the local
communities living within the protected areas. This will improve the local community's
understanding of biodiversity and community values and will improve implementation
and enforcement of the plans and activities. In fact implementation of the protected areas
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOLRcEs MANAGEMENT           WORLD BANK / TACS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
93



management plan, the eco-tourism management plan and the Community Grant Program
offers wide opportunities to involve local communities in direct biodiversity conservation
activities (monitoring, guiding, up-keeping of sites, control etc.).
hi,littit/  . ioral Pczp,on;*ibJt. ,
The protected areas management will have to establish close links with local communities
and involve them in biodiversity conservation activities where possible. It is recommended
that certain posts will be created and advertised within each protected area. Applicants
should be short-listed and interviewed, following standard procedures by the central PIU.
All persons employed should be reviewed by the PIU initially after 3 months, then after 6
months and then on an annual basis. Where it is found that the work is either not being
carried out or is not of a sufficient standard, then the persons involved should be subject to
disciplinary proceedings ultimately leading to the withdrawal of their contract.
Traitivlll,
Once the best candidates have been identified, an assessment of their individual training
need should be made by the PIU.
8.7           IMPLEMENTATION RISK ASSESSMENT
As in the other component chapters, process based risks and
accompanying mitigation measures can be identified for the Protected
Area Management and Biodiversity Conservation component. These are
listed below.
8.7.1         Zoning and developmnent of the protected areas management plans are not
finalized prior to new construction or new economic activities which
might impact the protected areas.
Under the protected areas management component, a new zoning and development of
protected area management plans are foreseen. This process could take up to two years
before being ready for implementation. However, the project proposes a set of activities
whiclh might impact the protected areas before the zoning has been finalized and before
precise definitions have been developed of what type of activities can be developed, to
which extent and in which areas.
Best Practice/ A. lm,r,at.cl i
No new economic activities or construction planned within the protected area component
(eco-tourism, community grants program) should be initiated prior to finalization of the
new zoning and protected areas management plans. Activities planned in villages within
the protected areas under the Community Based Natural Resource Management
Component should be carried out in full consultation with protected areas management
and the people involved in development of the new zoning and protected areas
management plans.
The protected areas management plans themselves should be developed in full
consultation and with participation of all stakeholders. They should take account of
watershed management plans and forestry management plans to be developed under the
other components.
IThe new zoning plans should be based on new mapping, monitoring, data and scientific
information gathering to be supported through the project. The protected area management
plans should define all activities allowed or prohibited to be undertaken in certain zones
ENVIRONMENTAL RESCOURCE5 MANAGEMVENT        WORLD BANK / TACIS IOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
94



including economic activities, road and trail construction, construction in general, use of
fertilizers and pesticides or other harmful substances, hunting and fishing, etc. The plans
should distribute responsibilities for implementation and enforcement, including options
for community management, as well as costing of necessary activities (training, equipment,
human resources development etc.). A system for funding of the implementation of the
plan will have to be developed as well with all necessary institutional or legal changes.
When the plans are ready, a broad public awareness raising exercise will have to be carried
out and, where possible, local communities should be involved in its implementation.
Jn4ibitunal Responsibility
The central PIU in co-operation with the MoNP, and especially its Department of Protected
Areas and its regional departments, scientific institutions and all other stakeholders are
responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the protected area
management plans.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT             WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
95



9            ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION RISK MANA GEMENT
9.1          INTRODUCTION
In addition to the specific project implementation risks listed under the
three components in chapters 6, 7 and 8, two more general project
implementation risks have been identified. This chapter proposes
recommendations to effectively manage these risks and ensure a successful
project implementation.
9.2        INTEGRATION AND CO-ORDINATION OF PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Successfully integrating the management structures of the three project
components and their relationships with the relevant agencies and
stakeholders at all levels will be a major challenge. A strong and
committed coordinating structure between all relevant agencies will need
to be developed.
In this respect, it is of great importance that besides the MoNP, other
ministries and agencies, especially the Ministry of Agriculture and
Hyantar, develop a sense of ownership of the project. The importance of
the agricultural and forestry authorities becomes evident through the
potential involvement of Agricultural Support Centers, FREC and Hyantar
itself in the implementation of the project. Also, legislative and
institutional changes will be required by the project for which their
support is needed. Strong day-to-day co-operation between the agencies
and the PIU has to be established to ensure sustainability of the project.
Box 9.1      Recommnendation
Currently the relevant agencies are represented in the PMB which will meet only 4 times a year.
To ensure a better day to day integration and co-ordination, a technical advisory board to the
PIU, consisting of representatives from all relevant ministries and agencies, should be
established.
In addition, a co-operation structure to ensure co-ordination between the different project
implementation support groups for each component should be established and could take the
form of bi-weekly meetings.
9.3          ENSURING EFFECTIVE INVOLVEMENTAT THE LOCAL LEVEL IN PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
The project aims to introduce community based management of common
natural resources by community organizations representing users and
authorities charged with these functions. Involvement of local
communities is essential in the planning and management process.
However, the level of public awareness and experience in community
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOLJRCES MANAGEMENr     WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT EVIRONMNIENTAL PRCXGRAM
96



involvement in natural resources management as well as technical and
implementation capacity at the community level is currently limited.
In addition, a number of different governing structures are already active
at the local level at present (village councils, village elders, mayors) and
several new additional structures have been planned (user group
associations, water management boards). There is a concern that the
project would introduce these new structures without building on what is
already in place and a concern that the different existing structures have
not all been involved to the same extent in project preparation process,
thereby creating opportunities for misunderstanding, lack of commitment
and missing valuable capacity. In general, it can be said that institutional
development proposals should be based on the principle to capitalize on
what has already been achieved in institutional development and further
strengthen these existing institutions, enabling them to become self-reliant
development agencies.
Last, there is a general poor feedback from the local to central level and
little respect for and trust in the central government. There is also some
misunderstanding at the local community level as to the project activities
that will be implemented and a possible lack of interest on their side. The
current institutional structure for project implementation does not address
this properly. There are no direct linkages between the central PIU and the
local level, neither is the local level represented in the PMB. This creates a
risk of local level priorities and issues not being reflected at the central
level. However, having 19 communities represented in the PMB would not
be feasible. The Marz level PIUs will be the institutional unit with the most
direct linkages with the local level and could possibly fulfil this role.
Box 9.2       Recommendations
Before any new institutional structures at the local level are set up, a clear analysis of existing
institutions and capacity should be carried out in each village. New structures should build on
what is already there and should aim at involving and integrating the capacity at hand
(possibly coming from both village councils and village elders) to maximize efficiency and
ensure a successful implementation at the local level. In addition, training, awareness raising
and demonstration projects at the local level will be key for successful implementation and
should be carried out before any new institutional structures at local level are set up.
Marz level PIU representation within the PMB, in addition to the Marzpetaran governors,
should be proposed to ensure better linkages between local and central levels of project
implementation.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOURCES MANAGEMENT         WORLD BANK / TACS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
97



I



Annex A
Members of the EA Team



Al           INTERNATIONAL AND ARMENIAN TEAM MEMBERS
International Experts
Eamonn Barrett          Category I: Study Manager/EA Specialist
Reed Huppman            Category I: Study Manager (Scoping Mission only)
Emily Fripp             Category II: Forestry Specialist
Sabine Hoefnagel        Category II: Institutional Specialist
Joanna Cochrane         Category II: EA Expert
Sara Browning           Category III: Watershed Specialist / Engineer
Arnenian Local Experts
Karen Ter-Chazaryan     Forester
Julietta Glichyan       Institutional Specialist
Vardges Kurkchyan      Agricultural Specialist / Engineer
Lusine Tadevosyan      EA Specialist / Coordinator
Ruzanna Martirosyan     Administrator / Coordinator
Anahit Maryanyan        Interpreter, Translator
ENVIRONMENTAL REuOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
Al



Annex B
Legal and Regulatory
Framework for
Environmental
Management in Armenia



LAWS AND             Promu      Main provisions and issues
REGULATIONS Igation
dates
FRAMEWORK
LAW
1991       Establishes obligation of State to care for environment, prescribes institutional framework for environmental management, and
lays down principles, approaches and instruments for environmental protection. The Law has a minimum normative value - it
Law on                          has been used as an environmental policy document.
Environmental
Principles, the                 The aims of nature protection are:
Green Constitution              .    ensure a right to a clean environment
protection of the natural resources, support to improving flora and fauna
protection of ecological balance of the natural systems and land diversity
protection and effective use of natural minerals recourses
protection of special natural ecosystems and national properties etc.
article 25
Protection of       updated     The article ainms to protect the plants and animals which are includes in Red Book.
uncommon and         02.04.199
disappearing flora   6
and fauna
CODES, LAWS
Land Code            1991       Divides land of Armenia into categories based on planned use. Presents the conditions for ownerslhip or lease of land of land in these
updated    categories, how these rights may be transferred, end stipulates the requirements to conserve land and protect it from degradation or
in 2000    contamination.
Deprivation of ownership if an owner fails to protect the land, is far too strict. Lack of developed land sale mechanisms and absence of an
information base prevents the establishment of a proper land market. The centrally driven land categorization system is often in conflict



with the system of land master plans executed by regional and local govemments.
Water Code            1992       The Water Code aims at (I ) guaranteeing the water supply for the residential and industrial needs; (2) preventing contamination and
exhaustion of the water resources; (3) improving water facilities; (4) protecting the rights of local self-governing authorities and citizen; (5)
strengthening legal protection of water. The water legal framework is struggling with the same difficulties as the rest of environmental
legislation: unrealistic policy goals, obsolete standards, insufficient economic instruments, legislative failure to consider capacity of the
administrative structure and difficulties with enforcement.
Law on Specially      1991       The Law distinguishes three types of zones -protected, recreational and economic ones, and four types of specially protected areas: "state
Protected Areas                  reserves" (no economic activities allowed), "national parks" (an area which comprises natural systems and units of special ecological,
cultural or scientific significance), "state reservations" (no economic activities allowed which can threaten or damage ecosystems) and
"natural monuments". Currently protected areas suffer from illegal economic activities, weak institutional capacity and inefficient
management of the related governmental agencies, as well as undeveloped legislation and lack of enforcement.
The following tasks are listed:
* protection and reproduction of the ecosystems
. protection of natural monuments
* preservation of the biodiversity
*   scientific research of natural phenomena
.   regulation of the state of the environment
* ecological education
* etc.



Forest Code          1994        The Code guarantees protection of forests. The objectives of forestry protection are threefold: (1) to protect forest natural
resources, (2) to increase forest regeneration rates, and (3) to define the role of the state in forest protection. The Forestry Code
is based on the presumption that forests in Armenia do not have a productive function, thus it ignores the reality of timber
harvesting and fuelwood collection. Besides, the Code does not address the compatibility of forests' land use and grazing.
Law on               1995        Establishes a framework to define impacts of intended activities on environment, assess feasible altematives, minimize negative
Environmental                    consequences and ensure public involvement. Contains a list of activities subjected to the expertise process. The State Agency for
Expertise                        Environmental Expertise, subordinate to the Ministry of Nature Protection, is responsible for carrying out the relevant procedures.
The main aim of the expertise is foresee, prevent and minimize the negative impacts of plannin-g activity to human health,
environment, economic and social normal development.
The tasks of the expertise are:
o   Analysis of the alternatives and usefulness of the planning activity
o   Assessment of environmental impacts of planning activity or that's alternatives
o   Checking of the possible consequences of the planning activity, and what activities they planning to do for
mitigation of negative impacts, are those realistic or not
o   Ensure the effective use of natural resources
o   Stop activities which have negative environmental impacts
o   ensure public participation and information on expertise.
The list of activities which require expertise include:
.   Wood and paper production,(if the production exceeds certain limits)
*   Community (city) building (construction)
*   Buildings, constructions and complexes which exceed certain limits



.   Waste water stations
*   Improving and restoring of natural eco-systems, which are damaged by anthropogenic affect
*   Introduction of new sorts of flora and fauna
.   Agricultural
*   Land improving, construction of irrigation or drainage networks (systems), land protection from erosion and
other affects, these activities are beyond to expertise, if are exceed the limits
*   Restoring of forest and improving of quality of the forest
*   Construction of water tanks and other constructions
*   Extraction of underground water
*   Substructure
*   Roads, tunnel, bridge, underground, railway, airport construction exceeding certain limits
*   Services
.   markets and supermarkets, which volume more than limit
*   hotels and tourist complexes -more than limit (MTL)
*   every petrol station
.   restaurants, cafes, etc MTL
*   railway and car stations
*   morgues and cemeteries.
The expertise must forecast, describe and assess the:
* direct and indirect impacts of planning activity
* alternative variants, including the zero-impact variant, and choose which one is more effective
* the mitigating activities for the negative environmental impacts
* the assessment of environmental impacts of socio-economic development when zero-impact variant is chosen
. the local properties of each area during the expertise (cultural, socio-economic and environmental )
However, in reality, the legal procedure is not being followed. Especially public hearings are not being carried out.
Regulation on the    30.03.199   Sets out the limits to decide whether activities need to be expertised.
limits of the activities  9
which must be
expertised
Law on               Under       Will pursue such principles as general protection of all species and commercial utilization of nature based on licensing. It should be said that
Conservation and     parliame    nature protection legislation fails to comply with declared goals.
Use of the Fauna     nt



hearings
Law on Protection   1998      The Law on Flora outlines the GOA's policies for the conservation, protection, use, regeneration and management of natural
of Flora                      populations of plants and for regulating the human impacts on biodiversity. The law on Flora and Draft Law on Fauna aim to
ensure sustainable conservation of plants and animals, natural habitats and biodiversity, to develop scientific assessments of
levels for sustainable use of natural populations, and to protect the rights of those involved in conservationi and management,
The implementation of this law will be overseen by the Ministry of Nature Protection, and by local government and other
agencies. The law provides for: inventory, study and monitoring of flora and fauna populations; development of their State
listing and their use; further elaboration of the Red Data Book; investigation of issues relating to flora amd fauna conservation;
conservation of rare and threatened species; use of plants and animals; measures for dealing with disputes over use of plants
and animals; and international agreements relating to conservation issues.
Code on mineral     1992,     Establishes rights and conditions of exploitation of underground resources, defines terms of contract, licensing responsibility,
resources,          93,94,97  and schedule of fines for infringements.
amended by
Cabinet decisions
374 (1993) and 504
(1993), 221 (1997)
sub-act on natural
resource extraction.
Law on Land tax     1994      Describes the principles on which land taxation is based, the rates of taxation, privileges and exemptions, and procedures for
(draft    collection and payment.
revision
Sept.
1997)
Law on Real Estate  Jan. 1996  Establishes rights to possess, use, alter, exclude access to, dispose of, and mortgage land and immovable property, the
of the Republic of            eligibility to such rights and the conditions under which they may be applied. Specifies that court proceedings are required for
Armenia                       the State to alienate land against wishes of right holder. Establishes registration and cadastre system.
Law on the          1998      This law provides the basis for the protection and use of monuments in Armenia and regulates the relations among protection
Protection and Use            and use activities. Article 15 of the Law describes procedures for the discovery and state registration of monuments, the
of Fixed Cultural             assessment of protection zones around them, and the creation of historic-cultural reserves. Article 22 requires the approval of
and Historic                  the authorized body before land can be allocated for construction, agricultural and other types of activities in areas containing
Monuments and                 monuments.
Environment



Presidential Decree  May 1997  Defines the powers of the provincial government (marzpet)
on Provincial
(Marz)
Government.
Law on Local Self   July, 1996  Defines conditions for appointment, service and dismissal of the Chief of Community and the Community Council, and
Government                     describes their powers and responsibilities.
DECREES,
RESOLUTIONS
and DECISIONS
Decree on the rate  1995???
of fines for illegal
logging
The Resolution of   Adopted    stipulates that the term of lease should be agreed between the lessor and the lessee and confirmed by the relevant authorities.
the Government on   on April   The Regulation also states the right of the lessor to demand from the lessee implementation of nature protection activities on
Provision and       12, 2001   the leased land.
Alienation of State-
owned Lands
Cabinet Decision on  June 1997  Establishes RPSUCD and defines responsibilities for land cadastre and registration.
the Creation of a
Real Property State
Unified Cadastral
Department
(RPSUCD) of the
Republic of
Armenia.
OTHER
RELEVANT
LEGISLATION
Civil Code          1998       All legislation, adopted prior to 1999, should be revised in conformity with the Civil Code by the end of 2001. However, nothing seems to
have been done so far.
The situation changed with the introduction of a new Civil Code and a complementary Civil Code Enforcement Act. According to that Act
farms and collective farms registered prior to January 1, 2001 are subject to reorganization and re-registration. However, up to now these



organizations have neither reorganized nor re-registered. Villagers are reluctant to register. Consequently, the legal status of farms is not
clear, which appears to be an impediment for farms to participate in civil and legal activities, e.g. signing contracts and receiving loans.
The new Civil Code does not envisage any legal status for farms. According to the Code the only legal entities in the sphere of
agriculture are agricultural co-operatives. However, there is no legislation on agricultural co-operatives. Creation of co-
operatives is also hampered by tax legislation, as Acts on Profit Tax, Income Tax and Value Added Tax have incentives for
stand-alone farms, which are not liable to pay either profit or value added taxes. Co-operatives as legal entities will have to pay
those taxes.
Law on Rental        2000        The Law on Rental Payment and Regulations on Utilization of Natural Pastures, Hay Meadows and Other Land Types, and the
Payment                          Resolution on Renting State Pastures Placed out of Administrative Borders of a Community regulate renting of remote
pastures on a short-term (up to 3 years) and on a medium-term (from 3 to 10 years).
Privatization Law    1990        Lays down conditions for transfer of state assets to private individuals and groups
Law on Farms and     1991        Establishes conditions for ownership of farms by individuals, and lays downi principles for management of farms by individuals and
Collective Farms                 collectives. detemiines the economic, organizational and social conditions and legal framework of farms and collective farms. According to
that Law and the Law on Enterprises and Entrepreneurial Activities the farms have not had a status of a legal body, however, they have
enjoyed all the rights and respective responsibilities assigned to a legal body. A collective farm is considered to have a status of a lcgal body
from the moment of its registration.
OTHER
SECTORAL
LEGISLATION
1992
Law on Sanitary-
Epidemiological
Safety
Law on Energy        1997
Law on State         1997
Statistics
Law on               1998
Standartization and
Certification



Code on              1999
Administrative
Infrimgements
Law on Lake Sevan    2001        This law includes all the buffer zones within the national park area. Special measures for the short and long term have been
identified. Different regimes are proposed for a strictly protected zone, immediate impact zone and an indirect impact zone.
Law on Protection    1999        "Law on protection of selection achievements" regulates relationships related to the creation of new plant breeds, their legal protection and
of Selection                     use. The Law is consistent with the requirements of UPOV, as presented at the 1997 intemational Geneva conference on the protection of
Achievements                     new breeds of plants. The law regulates questions connected with the rights of the patent holder, the rights of the author of the new plant
breed and entitlement to use of the new plant breed. However, Armenia does not have a National system of intellectual property right
protection.
Law on Plant         2001        "Law on plant protection and plant quarantine" addresses issues of diagnosis and prevention of virus-caused and parasite
Protection and Plant             diseases of plants as well as defines the stakeholder institution responsible for control of norms of quarantine.
Quarantine



Annex C
Structure of Key
Organisations



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE CENTRAL STAFF
OF THE MINISTRY OF NATURE PROTECTION
M I N I S T E R
MINISTER'S OFFICE
COLLEGIUM
I____ _  DEPUTI      {           DEPUTY                    DEPUTYI
PUBLIC RELATIONS              NMINISTER                  MINISTER                 NMINISTER
DEPARTMENT       ei
DEPARTMENT   -    ~~~~--------------------~----~ --------------------  r---------------   -----~------------------------.
LEGAL                   FLORA and FAUNA
UNEGOUDPOTCINATMOSPHERE PROTECTION
DEPARTMENYT         i  PROTECTION AND SPECIAL    UNDERGROUND PROTECTION
__ __   iPROTECTED NATURAL AREAS      DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
_ _ _ _ _ _DEPARTMENT        i                 -
ECONOMICS
DEPARTMENT                                      f i  i ji  MINERAL RESOURCES  WATER RESOURCES
__________________ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND           DEPARTMENT                PROTECTION
INTERNATIONAL CO-     g | SCIENTIFIC EDUCATIONAL | _____DEPARTMENT_  i_    i      DEPARTMENT
STRATEGY DEPARTMENT                                     DPRMN
OPERATION DEPARTMENT
I REPUBLICAN
________________  I                    ~~NORMATIVE-METODO-
SPECIAL DIVISION            LAND PROTECTION                                  LOGYGEOLOGICAL FUND  L   DOCUMENTS
|___   DEPARTMENT                                    DEPARTMENT
ACCOUNTING DEPARTMENT
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
AND WASTES MANAGEMENT
DEPARTMENT
PERSONNEL
DEPARTMENT             ____        __|
-- - - - -- - - - - --   .- - -- - - - -- - -   - -- - I- -



VlNgW'dV JO NOIJD3,LO'dd 3qNLVN AO A'diSININ ]HI JO I'dVHD NOIIVZINVD'd0



Structure of "Hayantar" State Closed Joint-Stock Company
(Central staff)
I~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
l~N STER                                      Legzal Department
FrstDeprtnent           |~
First Deputy Minist                   Deputy Minister                 Deputy |inister
Science and Education                  Agrarian Policy             Financial and Budgeting
No  Department                  00      Departnient             10      Department
External Relations                Licensing and Qualit)           Agricultural Ser ices
Department t                    Control Department                  Department
Ground Construction                 Agricultural Products          Agrobusiness Support
Department                     Development Principal                Department
Directorate
Slale.4grarnnl Invpec lio__
on .4gric illiala Equipm&"al        State .4grian Inspection        Srate Vereninary
on A,d,rnedrr             / Inspec"ion
Food and Processing Industry
De%elopment Pnncipal
Directorate



STATE WATER COMMITTEE
ENCY  1DRAINA&GE, IRRIGATION
MANAGEMENT AGENCY (DIMA), -
.te r R =a i       _
g Stadolu (160)~- |Pumping Siations nii
w,tetgiytaIEiziked for-
.......'.- -...t..



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF NATURE PROTECTION
MARZ ADMINISTRATION
Staff of the Marzpet (Govemor)                                  Chancellery
Legal Division                                         B   k   eingz
Department of Finance .nd Econi.iro  ]                 Department it Lithrn Dtvelopment
De0paftme"t of Coocundon of
Acivides oaRegionalAgencies wider                        Div-sirjr, of Information and Publc
Nadb*7a1JDrmt#vv Aughontes and  *0 *|Relations
LocalselfGvmneAutbodes.
Department of Educaumon, Culture and                  Departrmnc no Public Hcialth and Socal
Sport                                                 ecurity
Departnent of Transport and Road                           Gener Service Di. isicn
Development            *                 *
r Deparwwieni of.4griculture. and Nature                         Pcr%.ir,ncl Di'.1,itrn
Protection                              No



Annex D
NRMPR EA Public
Consultation and Disclosure
Minutes



INTRODUCTION
This annex presents the results of the public consultation and disclosure
program (PCDP) undertaken for the Natural Resource Management and
Poverty Reduction environmental assessment (EA) process. For each public
meeting, the persons in attendance and the questions and answers are
provided. The draft Executive Summary, translated into Armenian, served as
the basis for each meeting, though the presenters were also able to add
additional detail based on their in depth knowledge of the project. The PCDP
is described in greater detail in Section 5 of the EA report.
Four meetings were scheduled to take place during November and December
2001. However, due to first the Christmas holidays and then winter weather
conditions, only three of the four meetings had taken place as of 30 January
when the final EA report had to be submitted. The fourth meeting will be
carried out as soon as conditions permit, and the results will be included in a
revised annex to be attached to the EA report.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
Dl



PCD MEETING 3
26.12.2001                              Tavoush Marz, Village Koghb
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Public Consultations
Participants
Delegation members
Georgi Arzumanyan        PIU participation expert
Lusine Tedevosyan        Environmental impact assessment expert
Community representatives
1.  Abovyan           Aramayis      (head of village)
2.  Abovyan           Pavel          ("Verelk"(Uprise) NGO)
3.  Ananyan           Sedrak        (peasant)
Karapet       (village council, head of agricultural
4.  Aghababyan                       deprtmnt
department)
5.  Abovyan           Jemma          (village council, accountant)
6.  Khasikyan         Armik         (village council, utilities engineer)
7.  Yerknapeshyan     Albert        (unemployed)
8.  Ghulijanyan       Armen         (member of the village council)
9.  Gharagiozyan      Marine         (teacher)
10. Hairapetyan       Lida          (director of kindergarten)
11. Barseghyan        Emma           (school headmaster)
12. Khasikyan         Armen         (unemployed)
13. Khasikyan         Haik           (head of village, secretary)
14. Gharakhanyan      Vahram         (teacher)
15. Abovyan           Suren         (director of the museum)
16. Ghulijanyan       Andranik       (Director  of  the  forest  research
experimental center /FREC/)
Agenda items
1. Introduction of the list of the project goals and measures (Georgi
Arzumanyan)
2. Introduction of the environmental impacts (Lusine Tedevosyan)
The opening of the meeting was announced by Georgi Arzumanyan who
introduced the members of the delegation to the community population. He
introduced the purpose of the meeting convened to the community members,
i.e. the introduction of several changes made in the list of actions. The detailed
description of the changes in the list of the actions of the program was
presented in detail, and particularly it was emphasized what would those
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
Dl



actions give to the communities, what global benefits they would gain, what
opportunities would be opened for them...
Lusine Tadevosyan introduced the environmental impact assessment results
to the community representatives, referring to the negative and positive
impacts, by presenting the contents of the "Non-technical executive
summary" in the brief provided to the locals prior to the meeting.
A possibility was provided to the participants after the presentations for
questions and answers.
The matters of concern to tile commnuinity members were:
V Emma Barseghyan, a headmaster of one of the schools, raised the
question on if the school that was currently in hard financial conditions would
have a possibility to construct a drying facility and bee-hive in the area under
the scopes of the project. In the opinion of the headmaster the incomes
generated from the activity would significantly improve the financial status of
the school.
Answering to the question, Georgi Arzumanyan stated that this or that
solution of the mentioned question would mostly depend on the decision of
the community representatives. Once found to be a rational solution, it would
be possible to undertake that action.
V  Mrs. Barseghyan was also interested whether the global nature of
the project is actually realistic.
Georgi Arzumanyan answered that the resolution of most of the problems
depended on the community members, and on the fact to what extent they
would collaborate, and how conscientiously they would undertake the
measures planned under the project. The PIU would be in charge of the
preparation of the project, but the main implementation activities of the
project would be the duty of the community representatives.
V Pavel Abovyan ("Verelk" NGO) was interested in how much
would the daily remuneration rate for each worker would be.
Mr. Arzumanyan clarified the matter by stating that the pay per day would
amount to US$2 equivalent drams.
V After the clarification Pavel Abovyan asked if the social security
payments and income tax would be deducted from that salary and whether
there are certain tax privileges planned for the local population.
That question was followed by an answer that the details were not clear yet
(Georgi Arzumanyan), however, in any case, that would be within the
framework of the RoA legislation.
V Khasikyan Haik (village council, secretary) was interested in
whether it would be possible to start the project implementation in 2002.
ENVIRONMENTAL RE50URCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TAC15 JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D2



The implementation process would most probably start from March 2002
(Georgi Arzumanyan).
V Mr. Pavel Abovyan a representative of "Verelk" NGO was
interested in who would carry out the conservation of the field protection
forest cover.
Mr. Arzumanyan answered that, according to the project, those
responsibilities will fall on the community representatives.
V Pavel Abovyan asked what resources would be available after the
completion of the project, to protect the trees planted.
As explained by Mr. Arzumanyan, as a result of the project actions there
would be additional incomes generated for the community, e.g. from the use
of those newly established tree nurseries, at the expense of which it would be
possible to conserve them in the future.
v Mr. Haik Khasikyan was interested in what the project budget
was and how many communities it would be shared between and what was
the procedure for distribution.
Georgi Arzumanyan answered that the overall project budget would amount
to about US$16 million and roughly US$5 million would be planned for this
component for 6 years of duration, and the total number of the communities
involved will be 100. An important factor for the selection of the communities
and the distribution of the funds would be the willingness of the communities
to participate in the project implementation process.
V Mr. Khasikyan asked what was the responsibility of the
community representatives in the current stage of the project preparation.
In this stage the community representatives should present their
recommendations and comments on the package introduced to them, and
should actively participate in the meetings held (Georgi Arzumanyan).
V Haik Khasikyan was interested in what the role of the
Marzpetaran would be in the project implementation process.
Georgi Arzumanyan clarified the matter that the Marzpetaran's objective was
to coordinate and to some extent to also monitor the actions implemented in
the Marz area within the scopes of the project, to participate in the drafting of
the management plans and in the selection process of the new communities
etc.
V The next problem that was a matter of concern for Mr. Khasikyan,
was whether the monitoring planned under the project would be undertaken
by the Marzpetaran or not.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D3



The Marzpetaran would naturally on its part, ndertake a monitoring of the
project. That obligation is mostly set on the PIU (Georgi Arumnanyan).
There were opinions stated that:
* In reality this project is a well-developed and mature project and
that the population of the neighboring Koti and other villages would also
benefit from this project (Andranik Ghulijanyan).
* Even if one hundred jobs are planned to be opened within the
scopes of the project, the community population would be highly satisfied
("Verelk" NGO, PavelAbovyan).
At the end of the meeting the head of the village (Aramayis Abovyan)
expressed his appreciation to the delegation members and the community
representatives. In his speech he also emphasized the significant importance
of this project and stressed that the community is ready to support and
participate in its implementation.
Words of gratitude were also stated on behalf of the delegation by Georgi
Arzumnanyan.
ENNIRONMEN-rAL RETOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BAN1K / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROC.RAM
D4



PCD MEETING 2
26.11.2001                     Gegharkunik Marz, village Dprabak
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
Results of Public Consultation and Disclosure Meeting
Participants
Delegation members
Gayane Minasyan         The World Bank, Armenia Resident Mission
Gohar Ghazinyan         PIU Director
Georgi Arzumanyan       PIU participation expert
Lusine Tedevosyan        Environmental impact assessment expert
Community representatives
Last Name           First Name     Last Name           First Name
1. Mkrtumyan        Vova           13. Zakharyan       Kamo
2. Hovsepyan        Aramayis       14. Lazaryan        Hambartsum
3. Arzumanyan       Viktor         15. Safaryan        Hrachik
4. Hovsepyan        Sergo          16. Aghajanyan      Nikolay
5. Vardanyan        Aghavard       17. Nazlukhanyan    Hovhannes (head
of the village)
6. Vardanyan        Gurgen         18. Aghasaryan      Piotr
7. Hovsepyan        Makich         19. Khondrakyan     Makich
8. Shahnazaryan     Valer          20. Poghosyan       Iurik
9. Yeritsyan        Jora           21.Dallakyan        Aram
10. Tavartsyan      Viktor         22. Balayan         Ararat (deputy
head of village)
11. Poghosyan       Shushanik      23. Nazlukhanyan    Vasil
12. Mnatsakanyan    Elmira         24. Julhakyan       Tolla
Agenda items were:
1. Introduction of the list of the project goals and measures (Georgi
Arzumanyan)
2. Introduction of the environmental impacts (Georgi Arzumanyan)
Georgi Arzumanyan announced the opening of the session by the
introduction of the delegation members to the community representatives.
They mentioned that the main goal of the session convened, was to introduce
the community members several changes made in the list of the project
measures and the Project environmental impact assessment outcomes, with
the reference to the negative and positive factors. The changes made in the list
of the project measures were presented in detail and emphasizing in particular
what those actions will give to the communities, what would their universal
benefits be, and what possibilities will be opened in front of them. Also, the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D5



possible environmental impacts of the actions planned in the program were
presented.
After Mr. Arzumanyan's speech, there was a question and discussion period.
The questionsfrorn the communiity members were:
V When will the project implementation start?
In answering to this question Mr. Georgi Arzurnanyan stated, that the project
implementation will possibly start in spring of the next year and will continue
for 5-6 years. The community representatives were interested in which of the
listed actions planned would start first. Gayane Minsayan clarified the issue,
stating that for the implementation of any action, a corresponding institutional
ground should be prepared. For example, to undertake the action related with
the livestock production sector development, it is first of all necessary to
improve the pastures, for the necessary feed base to be provided prior to
increasing the number of the livestock in the future.
However, the peasants objected to that sequence, stating the fact that their
community, at present, utilizes only 1/4 of the total pastures, and the pastures
that are left idle are mostly a major cause of the fire outbreaks in the summer
months. Also there was an opinion stated that if the number of the livestock
increases in the first priority manner, then the unused 3/4 of pastures could be
used to meet the feed requirements of those additional heads of livestock, and
the utilization of those pastures will have another positive impact (e.g., if the
animals graze in those pastures in spring months, then in the summer months
the incidence for the fire outbreaks will decrease).
V Gohar Ghazinyan asked, whether they would like to get joined
into collective farms.
There was an answer following this question, that the locals are not favoring
the recovery of the collective farms of the Soviet period, while as far as the
collective organization of the agricultural practices is concerned, then there is
already such experience applied in the following way: the individual
privatized land parcels are cultivated with joint efforts, and the yield is
distributed among the members at the amount of each one's contribution.
V   The concerns of the peasants were mnostly relating to thefollowing:
* The corresponding markets for the sale of the agricultural products by the
peasants themselves are inaccessible, as a result of which they tend to
produce less than the potential that they have, while if they had access to
the markets, then they could produce more agricultural products with the
same resources.
* Under the development of the milk processing activities in the
community, the resulting whey from that activity may serve as a feed for
the pigs. The availability of such additional feed resources also will create
conditions for the reduction of the pressures on the forests.
ENV'IRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D6



* In the event the livestock numbers grow, the animals in the grazing period
will not return home every day from the pasture, they will instead stay in
the remote pastures during the whole grazing period, which will also
leave comprehensive positive impacts on that.
* There was a recommendation made to increase the numbers of the
livestock in the coming years, based on the existing natural pastures, after
which only to think about the creation of planted grasslands, and their
crop rotations.
* One part of the community houses is located in the land-sliding zone.
* One of the priority objectives of the peasants is, that the generation of cash
revenues locally is very insignificant and the community representatives
in the priority manner require implementation of such actions, that will
allow them create ways for the generation of cash revenues.
* The main livestock product at the moment is the meat, and in the event
there are possibilities for milk processing and corresponding storage and
transportation, dairy products production could add value to the livestock
farmers.
* One of the issues of concerns to the peasants is also what financial
mechanisms will be applied and when will their specific forms and
conditions become clear?
* One of the wishes was, that the timings for the preparation activities were
to the possible extent reduced, and immediate actions for the
implementation of the core activities launched.
* Of course, there was the desire of the community representatives to
resolve all the matters of their concern within the scopes of this single
project, however, Gayane Minasyan clarified that it is not possible to
resolve all the matters of concern to the peasants within this single
environmental project, but this project will create prerequisites for the
future resolution of those unresolved issues: linkages will be established,
information exchange will be provided, demonstration of new experience
will be undertaken.
* The community population has some mistrust towards this project, which
is attributed to the results of the former projects they have experienced.
ENVIRONMFNTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D7



PCD MEETING 1
26.11.2001                              Tavotushl Marz, Village Gosh
Natural Resources Management and Poverty Reduction Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
Public Consultations
Participants
Delegation members
Gayane Minasyan          The World Bank Armenia Resident Mission
Gohar Ghlazinyan         PIlU Director
Georgi Arzumanyan        PIU participation expert
Lusine Tedevosyan         Environmental impact assessment expert
Community representatives
1. Sargsvan       Norair         12. Grigoryan     Manvel
2. Grigoryan      Levon          13. Grigoryan     Shushanik
3. Zakaryan       Robert         14. Ghazaryan     Liza
4. Amirkhanyan    Martik         15. Grigoryan     Khandut
5. Amiryan        Aramayis       16. Zakaryan     Rafael
6. Grigoryan      Aghamayis      17. Davtyan      Derenik
7. Sargsyan       Misha          18. Arzumanyan    Lena
8. Grigoryan      Suren          19. Amirkhanyan   Sanasar
9. Amirkhanyan    Serioja        20. Arzumanyan    Nver (head of village)
10. Arzumanyan    Movses         21. Arzumanyan    Garnik
11. Grigoryan     Vardan
Agenda items
1. Introduction of the list of the project goals and measures (Georgi Arzumnnyan)
2. Introduction of tlze environmental impacts (Georgi Arzumanyan)
The opening of the meeting was announced by Gayane Minasyan. She
presented the purpose of the meeting and introduced the members of the
delegation to the community population. Afterwards, the floor was given to
Georgi Arzumanyan. The latter introduced the participants to several changes
made in the list of the Project measures and the Project environmental impact
assessment outcomes, with the reference to the negative and positive factors.
During and after the presentation, the peasants expressed the following
opinions, recommendations and issues:
ENVIRONMIENTAL RESOURCFS MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D8



/         The only road for taking the livestock to the pasture passes
through the forest. When talking about the establishment of certain protection
hedges around the paths for the animals not to cause any damages when
passing through the forest, there was a recommendation made to establish
those hedges by planting dewberry bushes, which could also be used by the
population.
/         When speaking about the fuel, some of the people expressed their
opinion on the fact that they would prefer to have some other type of fuel for
use, e.g. liquid fuel. Today there are significant difficulties to procure
firewood, since the only source is the area of the state reserve, and in most
cases, the acquisition of the wood in legal manner is impossible. Recognizing
that fact, the population when having excess cash, will be able to buy other
fuel, thus also facilitating their problems in acquiring fuel, meanwhile
avoiding causing any damages to the forest.
V/    There are serious problemns in relation to the access to pastures. The
peasants unintentionally are forced to violate the border of the State Reserve
on their way of taking the livestock to the pasture (since there are no other
roads available), for which they are penalized.
/         Gayane Minasyan asked the community representatives whether
there had ever been any irrigation system in the village. The locals answered
that they never had such a system in place while under the availability of the
latter the process of erosion would have been significantly prevented.
/         There was a robust reaction by the peasants to the question raised
about the sanitary cuttings of the forest.
vz        To Gayane Minasyan's question on what would the community
members do, if the forest area of their village belonging to the Dilijan SR is
given on some conditions to the community, the peasants answered, that (1)
first of all, the money generating from the wood procurement of that forest
may address numerous problems faced by the community, (2) as well as, it is
most likely that the forest will be cut with more care, by undertaking sanitary
cuttings.
v         To Georgy Arzumanyan's question on whether they knew what
techniques should be applied when undertaking sanitary cuttings, the
peasants gave a positive feedback. However, they found it difficult to
specifically explain how would the selection of the trees, subject to cutting, be
made.
V/        When during his speech Mr. Arzumanyan mentioned about the
agricultural machinery, the community representatives stated that the village
needed new agricultural machinery. The existing ones are obsolete and they
do not meet the present needs of the village.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TAGISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM
D9



V          At the end of his presentation Mr. Arzumanyan spoke about the
small grants that planned to be provided, within the scopes of the project. In
this regard, the community members raised a question about how, whom and
how much would these grants be provided. Gayane Minasyan, replied that
these questions could be more specifically answered in late winter-early
spring. But at this point, we can state that those grants will be provided for the
performance of those actions, which are primarily targeted at the reduction of
any type of pressure on the biodiversity, and its conservation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT       WORLD BANK / TACISIOINT ENVIRONMIENTAL PROGRAM
D10



Annex E
Environmental
Management Guidelines for
Contractors



PREFACE
The recommendations that are presented in this annex are fully
comprehensive having been designed to cover all possible construction
considerations. It is recognised that not all of these recommendations will be
relevant to individual construction contracts. It is, however, suggested that
these guidelines be supplied in their entirety to contractors who will then be
responsible for devising appropriate environmental management plans in
accordance with the scope of their individual contracts.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES FOR CONTRACTORS
Introduction
Pu rpose
The purpose of these environmental management guidelines (EMG) for
contractors are to define minimum standards of construction practice
acceptable to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Applicable Codes, Standards and Legislation
There are various environmental regulations and standards which cover
environmental and related matters and these are referred to as applicable in
this EMG. Notwithstanding those references, compliance with them shall not
discharge the Contractor from complying with any other legislative
requirements applicable at the time of construction activities.
Thle Site
The Site, for the purposes of these EMG, is defined is any land which has been
included in the construction area, as defined on the PIU plans which will be
provided to the contractor.
Site Environmnental Managemnent Plan (SEMP)
Prior to the start of construction activities, the Contractor should, on the basis
of these guidelines, draw up a Site Environmental Management Plan (SEMP),
which must be approved by the PIU before construction or rehabilitation
activities can commence. This plan should include or address all the
components of these guidelines, with the caveat that the SEMP must justify or
explain if and when certain guideline components are not relevant to a
specific, individual project and any variance(s) agreed with the PIU.
When the SEMP has been prepared, the Contractor should also undertake
appropriate training of their workforce to ensure that every member of the
ENNIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT  WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
El



workforce is aware of the SEMP prior to going on site, and will adhere to the
SEMP at all times. The PIU will advise and assist the contractor as necessary.
Roads and Footpaths
Temporary and Permanent Closures and Diversions
In order to carry out some works, it may be necessary to close or divert certain
specified highways and footpaths, either permanently or temporarily during
the construction period. It is the Contractor's responsibility to finalise the
arrangements for these closures and diversions with the PIU.
After breaking up, closing or otherwise interfering with any street or footpath
to which the public has access, the Contractor shall make such arrangements
with the PIU as may be reasonably necessary so as to cause as little
interference with the traffic in that street or footpath during construction of
the Works as shall be reasonably practicable. This includes consideration of
the agricultural timetables (e.g., livestock movements, access to fields for
tilling or harvest).
Wherever the works interfere with existing public or private roads or other
ways over which there is a public or private right of way for any traffic, the
Contractor shall construct diversion ways wherever possible. The standard of
construction and lighting shall be suitable in all respects for the class or classes
of traffic using the existing ways, and the widths of the diversions shall not be
less than that of the existing way unless otherwise agreed with the PIU.
Diversion ways shall be constructed in advance of any interference with the
existing ways and shall be maintained to provide adequately for the traffic
flows.
The Contractor shall be responsible for supplying, erecting and maintaining
for the requisite periods all statutory and public information notices. The
nature and location of such notices shall also comply with the requirements of
the PIU.
The provisions of this Clause shall not apply to any temporary access or
accommodation works, which the Contractor may construct for his sole use in
the execution of the works.
Pedestrian Routes
The Contractor shall ensure that reasonable pedestrian routes are provided
throughout the construction period, where those routes are interrupted by the
works.
Maintenance and Repair of the Highway
The Contractor shall take every possible precaution to prevent its operations,
whether by carting or otherwise, from damaging the roads and footpaths in
the vicinity of works.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E2



The Contractor shall carry out all such maintenance works as are necessary to
maintain the roads and footpaths in the vicinity of the works in a serviceable
condition to the approval of the PIU.
Lorry Movements
The Contractor, its sub-contractors and suppliers moving large and/or heavy
loads, construction plant, materials and spoil (including vehicles used for
carrying such when running empty) shall limit the use of public highways as
far as is reasonably practicable.
Routes will be agreed with the PIU in advance. Vehicles arriving or leaving
the Site shall do so during normal working hours, unless otherwise agreed
with the PIU.
The Contractor shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that delivery
vehicles do not park on the highways prior to entering the Site.
The Contractor when entering into any sub-contract for the execution of any
part of the works or the supply or transport of heavy loads, construction plant,
materials or spoil shall incorporate in any such sub-contract provisions
requiring the sub-contractor or supplier to comply with the requirements of
this Clause.
Mud on Roads
The Contractor shall take strict measures to minimise the spillage of mud on
roads arising from excavation works.
These may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
1. The provision of wheel washing facilities.
2. Regular cleaning to remove any mud or debris deposited by site vehicles
on roads, footpaths, gullies or drains in the vicinity of the site.
3. The complete sheeting of the sides and tops of all vehicles carrying mud or
debris.
4. The Contractor shall ensure that vehicles are loaded in such a manner as to
prevent spoil falling off during their journey.
The Contractor shall also comply with the requirements regarding dust
outlined in this EMG.
Traffic Safety and Control (Traffic Safety Measures)
The Contractor shall provide, erect and maintain such traffic signs, road
markings, lamps, barriers and traffic control signals and such other measures
as may be necessitated by the construction of the Works to the approval of the
PIU.
The Contractor shall not commence any work that affects the public highway
until all traffic safety measures necessitated by the work are fully operational.
ENVIRON'MENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT EVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E3



The Contractor shall keep clean and legible at all times all traffic signs, road
markings, lamps, barriers and traffic control signals and he shall position,
reposition, cover or remove them as required by the progress of the works and
to the approval of the PIU.
Site Access
All access from the Site onto the highway shall be of sufficient width to
accommodate two-way traffic wherever practicable. Traffic signs shall be
provided for each access as follows:
1. As advance warning of the approach.
2. "Give Way" signs for control of traffic leaving the Site.
The precise location of each sign shall be determined by the Contractor to the
satisfaction of the PIU.
Access Across Site and to Frontages
In carrying out the Works, the Contractor shall take all reasonable precautions
to prevent or reduce any disturbance or inconvenience to the owners, tenants
or occupiers of adjacent properties, and to the public generally.
Subject to the provisions of these guidelines, the Contractor shall maintain any
existing right of way across the whole or part of the Site and public and
private access to adjoining frontages in a safe condition and to a standard not
less than that pertaining at the commencement of the contract.
Alternatively, the Contractor shall provide acceptable alternative means of
passage or access to the satisfaction of the persons affected. The Contractor
shall provide and maintain any guard rails, fences, gates, lights, bridges,
pavings, steps etc. needed and they shall be of such size, strength and
construction as will be adequate for their purpose.
In carrying out the work immediately adjacent to occupied premises outside
the Site, the Contractor shall proceed with minimum inconvenience and
disturbance to occupiers and users. Access to and from such premises shall be
maintained at all times, except as may be essential.
The Contractor shall render every assistance to occupiers of premises affected
by the works to enable them to get materials or goods into or out of their
premises.
Access to Agricultural Lands
The Contractor must liaise with local farmers to ensure that construction plans
are scheduled to minimise disturbance (eg through reducing access or
interrupting irrigation water supply) to existing agricultural lands during key
periods in the crop timetable, such as sewing and harvest. These schedules
must be agreed with the PIU as part of the SEMP before construction
commences.
ENWRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT    WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENwRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E4



Water and Soil Protection
Waste Water and Groundwater
Provisions for construction site drainage along the route of the Works will be
achieved via the development and implementation of an appropriate site
drainage plan. The plan will include measures to ensure that surface water
runoff is contained and managed appropriately, as described below. Such
provisions will also prevent washout from temporary construction laydown
and storage areas into local watercourses.
All waste water and site discharges shall only be permitted where the effluent
quality and discharge location is acceptable to the PIU. Any effluent produced
will pass through treatment facilities such as sediment traps and/or
settlement lagoons, as appropriate, before being discharged. The Contractor
will ensure that all treatment facilities are regularly inspected and maintained.
The Contractor shall make provisions to ensure that oil drums and containers
or other potential contaminants stored on the Site are properly isolated and
bunded and that no oil or other contaminants are allowed to reach
watercourses or groundwater, including aquifers. In particular, soil bunds
should be constructed around fuel or chemical storage areas to isolate
spillages (110% volume of stored chemicals); covers should be used to prevent
erosion from exposed heaps, which should themselves be positioned away
from watercourses; and adequate sanitation facilities (eg latrines) should be in
place for the workforce. In addition, an appropriate fuel and chemical
handling protocol and contingency planning to prevent and limit impact from
spills should be in place prior to any construction taking place.
The Contractor will also have due regard for underlying aquifers, and
wherever appropriate, measures to prevent groundwater contamination will
be agreed with the PIU.
Control and Managemnent of Foul Drainage
Any foul water and sewage effluents produced by the construction workforce
will be contained by temporary foul drainage facilities to be installed. All foul
water will be disposed of properly in accordance with local regulations and
off-site.
Water Supply Conflicts
The Contractor must ensure that the workforce have adequate access to a safe
water supply, which is not provided to the detriment of services to the local
population. If there is a risk of competition for limited water resources, then
the Contractor must ensure that the local supply is not affected, and that
workforce is provided with an alternative source if necessary (eg tankered and
stored water).
ENvIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E5



Soil Protection
The Contractor must also take every precaution to avoid unnecessary soil
compaction, (e.g., by minimising the use of heavy equipment, use of wooden
matting to spread weight in soft soils).
Noise and Working Hours
Working Hours
The normal working hours shall be 0700 - 1900.
These hours of work do not apply to equipment which is required to operate
continuously (e.g. for safety reasons).
At certain sites, different working hours shall apply. These will be as agreed
between the Contractor and the PIU.
In general, night-time working shall be kept to a minimum. However, for
some sites where night-time working is required it shall be agreed with the
PIU.
Additional or alternative working hours needed for emergency reasons shall
be advised to the PIU.
Noise Control
The Contractor shall have a general duty to take all practicable measures to
minimise nuisance from noise. This includes:
1. Respecting normal working hours in or close to residential areas.
2. Maintaining equipment in good working order so that extraneous noises
from mechanical vibration, creaking and squeaking are reduced to a
minimum.
3. Shutting down equipment when it is not directly in use (except where the
equipment is required to run continuously).
Dust and Air Pollution
Dust
The Contractor shall take all necessary measures to avoid creating a dust
nuisance during both construction and demolition works.
Measurers to prevent dust shall include the following practices:
1. The enclosure of material stockpiles at all times and damping down of
dusty materials using water sprays during dry weather.
2. Control of cutting or grinding of materials on site.
3. The complete sheeting of the sides and top of all vehicles carrying spoil and
other dusty materials.
4. Watering of unpaved surfaces and roads.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E6



5. Limit vehicle speeds on unpaved surfaces to 35 kph.
Air Pollution
The Contractor shall take precautions to prevent the occurrence of smoke
emissions or fumes from site plant or stored fuel oils. Plant shall be well
maintained and measures shall be taken to ensure that it is not left running for
long periods when not directly in use.
Disposal of Waste and Contaminated Materials
Waste
As part of the SEMP, the Contractor will develop a management plan which
will identify:
* the waste category and quantities of materials generated;
* opportunities for recycling and/or re-use; and
* disposal routes and licensing requirements.
Spoil arising from the works which is classed as "acceptable fill" will
wherever practicable be used in construction works.
Disposal sites will be identified by the Contractor in consultation with the
PIU.
Ecology
Encroaclhment into Wildlife Areas
The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of relevant nature
conservation legislation. The following general principles will be applied
where practicable:
1. Standards of dust, noise and air pollution control, as set out in previous
sections shall be applied to protect adjacent wildlife habitats.
2. Habitat loss will be minimised by restricting the working width to a
necessary minimum.
3. Suitable precautions shall be taken to prevent the entry of pollutants into
any bodies of water - adjacent habitat will be fenced off and staff given
awareness training, where appropriate.
4. Any unauthorised felling or trees, clearance of fauna, or trapping or killing
of any wildlife (excepting vermin) in the vicinity of the Site by members of
the workforce is strictly prohibited, and could lead to termination of
contract if not controlled. The Contractor must make sure that the
workforce have adequate resources and fuel supplies on site at all times to
prevent such an occurrence
Protection of Mature Trees
Loss of trees will be avoided wherever possible. Adverse effects on all trees
within or in the vicinity of the Site shall be minimised by the adoption of
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENMENT    WORLD BANK / TACIS JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E7



suitable mitigation measures, including, but not limited to the following
(where appropriate):
1. selective removal of lower branches in an approved manner, to reduce
mechanical damage by construction equipment;
2. the use of matting around the root zone to prevent excess soil compaction;
3. the use of paling around the trunk to prevent damage; and
4. notwithstanding (ii) above, construction activities shall be controlled in the
vicinity of all trees so as to minimise excessive compaction of the ground
beneath the entire canopy of the tree. No heavy materials or plant shall be
stored, and construction traffic movements shall be controlled, within the
areas.
Tree Replacement
Any tree that is damaged or cut down without approval or dies as a
consequence of the construction shall be treated or be replaced by a suitably
sized transplant to the approval of the PIU.
Site Boundaries/Hoardings
The Contractor shall liaise with the PIU to decide upon which (if any) areas of
the site should be fenced from public ingress.
Site Activities
Good Housekeeping
The Contractor shall follow a "good housekeeping" policy at all times. This
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following requirements:
* Open fires will be prohibited at all times;
* Rubbish will be removed at frequent intervals and the site kept clean and
tidy;
* Hoardings shall be frequently inspected, repaired and re-painted as
necessary;
* Adequate toilet facilities shall be provided for all site staff. Toilets shall be
kept clean;
* Food waste shall be removed frequently;
* The wheel washing facilities area shall be brushed clean frequently.
* Lorries shall enter and exit the Site in a forward direction.
* All loading and unloading of vehicles shall take place off the public
highway wherever this is practicable
Living Accommodation
No living accommodation will be permitted on the Site except with the
approval of the PIU.
Clearance of Site on Completion
The Contractor shall clear up all working areas both within and outside the
Site and accesses as work proceeds and when no longer required for the
carrying out of the Works.
ENVTRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT   WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E8



All surplus soil and materials, temporary roads, plant, sheds, offices and
temporary fencing shall be removed, post holes filled and the surface of the
ground restored as near as practicable to its original condition.
Pest Control
The Contractor shall ensure that the risk of infestation by pests or vermin is
minimised by adequate arrangements for the disposal of food waste or other
material attractive to pests. If infestation occurs he shall take the necessary
action to deal with it.
Use of Existing Structutres
The Contractor shall not locate stockpiles for materials, stores, plant or
temporary works upon or adjacent to or under existing structures such as
bridges, viaducts, towpaths, walls and embankments in such a way as to
endanger these structures.
Safety
Emergency Contacts and Procedures
The Contractor shall prepare and maintain an Emergency Contacts Set of
Procedures for each work site which shall be displayed prominently at each
site. These Procedures shall be followed in any site emergency.
They shall contain emergency phone numbers and the method of notifying
local authorities/services for action by the Contractor and the PIU. Copies of
the Procedures will be issued to the PIU and the Police.
Emergency telephone numbers for the Contractor's key personnel shall also be
included for the PIU's use in an emergency.
Use of Explosives
The use of explosives shall not be permitted except in exceptional
circumstances. Prior approval from the PIU shall be obtained.
Protection of Existing Installations
Informnation
The Contractor will be required to make his own investigations and to take all
appropriate actions concerning existing foundations, buildings, structures,
walls, roadways, sewers cables and other services, apparatus and installations.
Safeguarding
The Contractor shall properly safeguard all buildings, structures, works,
services or installations from harm, disturbance or deterioration during the
concession period. The Contractor shall take all necessary measures required
for the support and protection of all buildings, structures, pipes, cables,
sewers, railways and other apparatus during the concession period.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT     WORLD BANK / TACISJOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME
E9



