ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorid Fr:c ol rovcy
InfoShop
Report No AC20
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated. 04/07/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country. ETHIOPIA                                 Project ID P0446 13
Project: ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT         Task Team Leader: John D Riverson
PROGRAM 11 (RSDSP 11) - APL I
Authlorized to Appraise Date: March 28, 2003      3IBRD Amount ($m).
Bank Approval: June 17, 2003                     IDA Amounlt ($in).
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE- 126 74
Managing Unit AFTTR                               Sector Roads and highways (90%); Central
Lendinig Instrumilenit: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  governmienit administrationl (10%)
Status: Lending                                   Themile: Rural services and infrastructure (P), Other
environment and natural resources management (S);
Infrastructure services for private sector development
(S)
I.A.2 Project Objectives:
The development objective of the RSDP 2 Stage 1 (APLI) (the Project) is to
(a)    construct, rehabilitate, upgrade and preserve priority federal road network
(b)    strengthieni ERA reform program with a focus on: (i) creating a more commercially oriented ERA
throughi upgrading systems and procedures (contract management, planning, procuremenit and
administrationi); (ii) creating commercially oriented District Maintenance Organizationis (DMOs)
delivering cost effective maintenlanice services; (iii) separating client (ERA) and contractor roles (DMOs)
at district levels, (iv) supporting rational provision of mailiteniaiec equipment; (v) strengtiheiling Regional
Road Organizationis (RROs); (vi) developing a cohelenit planning and programming approach based on
network stabilization program, in whicih federal and regional agencies formulate common methodologies
of allocation of available resources
(c)    improve resource mobilization, allocation and use for road maintenanlce and strengthenl the Road
Fund Administration
(d)    develop capacity in program implementation with a specific focus on: (i) enhanicing the capacity
in road constructionl and mainitenlance by creating an enabling enviroiinmenit for participation of domestic
private contractors and exploring feasibility and options for private sector participation (PSP), (ii)
reducing adverse effects of road works on road safety and the environmienit by iicorporatinlg mitigating
measures durinig design and implementation stages, (iii) promoting use of labor-intensive techinology and
ensurinig CommuLnity participatioi in buiilding and maintaining regionial and commiilty roads; (iv)



2
ISDS
planning for the effective provision of community-based integrated village travel and transport
infrastructure and services; and (v) conducting monitoring and evaluationi studies of the impact of
investments in the sector on poverty alleviation and enviroiinmenital upgrading
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project components are.
(i)  Upgrading of the Nekempt-Mekenajo road (127 kin) to bitumen standard
(i i)  Rehabilitation/upgrading of the Nazareth-Assela road section (79 kni) of the Nazareth -
Assela - Dodola and Shashemene Goba road.
(iii) Upgrading to bitumen standard the Woreta-Gob Gob road section (99 km) of the Woreta -
Woldiya road.
(iv) Upgrading of the Adigrat-Adwa/AdiAbunl road section (108 kin) of the Adigrat-Shire road
(v)  Constructioni of the Dera-Magna section (1 19 kin) of the Dera-Mechara road.
The 5 roads to be rehabilitated in the first year's program are: Nekempt - Mekenajo road, Nazareth -
Assela road, Woreta - Gob Gob road, Adigrat - Adwa/AdiAbun road, and Dera - Magna road.
2.     Ethiopia Rural Travel and Transport Program (ERTTP) preparatory activities
(i)  Program Set up Support (Ongoing with lrish Aid funding and Bank-Rural Travel and
Transport Program (RTTP) support). The main activity is the provision of Consultancy
Services for the preparation of a Source Book covering administrative procedures, work
methods, and operational guidelines for the effective and efficient implementation of the
ERTTP.
(i i) Pilot Woredas Stdcly. The Study will involve the preparation of Woreda Travel and
Transport Plans (WTTP) for up to 100 Woredas, as part of Woreda Integrated Development
Plans (WIDPs), for implementation at a later stage, (b) the establishment of ERRTP
institutionial arrangemenits, and (c) capacity building activities for ERTTP structures at the
Regional and Woreda levels. The plans would also include comprehensive set of specific
demand-led multi-sectoral interventionis to improve access througil the siting of social and
economic infrastructure and services.
3.    Implementation of extended transport sector IHIV/AIDS prevention program  HIV/AIDS
prevention action plan is now being implemented by ERA. Starting in Stage I and in the follow on
operations, it is proposed to extend the scope of the HIV/AIDS preventioni program to cover contract
provisions and prevention activities during each new road contract implementation. Technical advisory
services and support of selected NGOs will be sought for implementation along with contractors and
supervising consultanits and ERA.
4.     Techinical Advisory Services to ERA  The TA will also focus on project planniniig and
implementation in order to achieve (a) an extended social inclusion of local comIullllities and local
governments in various project phases to better address road construction/tranisport related poverty
issues, (b) a continluous moniitorinlg of poverty impact of road construction and transport operations
through the establishmllenit of transport-poverty observatories at local commurnity aiid houselhold levels,
(c) the further enilanicemenit of ERA's capacity in the areas of Contract Adminlistration, Review and
approval of Engineering Designs, Enviroiinmental and Social Impact monitoring and Right-of-Way
(ROW) Management, so as to avoid Claims and facilitate dispute resolutioll.



3
ISDS
5.     Road Financing Study and Techinical Audits. This component consists of providing support to
RF to establish finanicial and technical audit services.
6.     Preparatory Activities to Support APL2 and 3 This component provides services to carry out
feasibility and EIA stidies, as well as design review for road projects to be included ulider follow-up
operations; and preparation of an urban transport strategy and policy documenit, witli a long term vision
to address mobility constrainits, and developmenlt of a pilot project.
I.A 4 Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and populationi likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Program and project cover the entire country. Environmenital and social impacts includinig: populations
to be affected, proximity to any protected areas, sites or critical natural habitats, and other culturally and
socially sensitive areas will be identified and assessed through the environimental and social assessment
processes according to national laws and regulations as well as Bank's safeguard policies
B. Clheck Enviroiniental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments Environmllenital Category A The project will require land acquisition inducing involuntary
resettlement, which triggers OD 4.12 Involtntary Resettlement Policy.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered_
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4 01)                     0 Yes CJ No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                                Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                         3) Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4 09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                * Yes G No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4 20)                                 C Yes * No
Involunltary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes C, No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   3 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          C Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                   C Yes * No
*By supportlng the proposed project. the Bank does not intend to prejuidice the final deternnnation of the parties' clailms
on the dispu1ted areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safegutard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain? necessary data.
11 D la Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significanit and/or irreversible impacts.
The potential negative impacts include soil erosion, permanent and temporary loss of land and property,
disturbances in the water quality, noise and dust are presumed to induce adverse physical environmental
impacts during road construction work Concerning Cultural Property the EA takes a systematic
identification of cultural property including graveyards, palaces, churches, natural sites such as waterfalls,
etc and mitigation measures are proposed for each site identified Construction and rehabilitation of the
five roads will have an impact on people living and working along these roads For the purpose of



4
ISDS
resettling and compensation of the affected people, five individual Resettlement Action Plans have been
prepared and approved The number of households affected can be summarized as follows
Total number of households affected by resettlement and/or compensation  1,763
Of the 1, 763, a total number of households which will be resettled and
on their own land or will otherwise be affected in any way          1,536
Of the 1, 763, a total number of households which will be resettled
on land other than their own                                  227
lI.D. I b Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more thani one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project componenit.
No cumulative impacts are anticipated at this point Flowever, the depth and breadth of the EMPs prepared
take into consideration any mitigation related to longer-term impacts. The resettlement action plans that
have been prepared will also take a longer-term perspective towards mitigation The Project will
undertake continuous monitorinig of the environmental and social aspects to ensure that changes can be
made, as needed.
11 D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The anticipated future activities do not seem to have any long term negative impacts on the environmenit
II.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Il.D 3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Under RSDP 1, the borrower has laid the foundation for sound environmeiital and social management
within the roads sector in Ethiopia. As part of the RSDP I EA recommenidations, an environmental
monitoring branci (EMB) was established under the ERA It consists of an ecologist, sociologist and an
engineer. The EMB has been mainly engaged in reviewing environimiienital assessments reports prepared
by design and EA consultants. Environilimenltal monitoring activities are also being undertakeni by the
EMB. EMB operations are supported by an Environmenital Procedures Manual and a
Resettlement/Rehabilitationl Policy Framework prepared under RSDP 1. Both documents have been
reviewed and cleared by ASPEN.
Individual Environmiental Assessments (EA) for the first year's road program (5 roads) have been
prepared These have been cleared by ASPEN and have been disclosed. Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) for the first year's road program have been prepared by the government and reviewed and
approved by ASPEN The RAPs will be disclosed before appraisal
RSDP 2 will continiue to support EMB to implement Environmental Managemenlt Plans prepared for each
of the proposed road projects. The program will also strengtheni manlagemenit capacity of the unit
throughi training and logistical support.
The mitigation of adverse environimenltal and social impacts identified will be incorporated into the credit
agreement EMPs and RAPs will be established for all affected subprojects prior to commenlcement of
civil works. Supervisioni of project operations will include a social scientist and environment specialists.
Project progress reports shall include social development outcomes.
Il.D 4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultationi and disclosure on
safeguard policies, wvith an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The SA included consultations with stakeholders; local govermiients and administrations, NGOs,



5
ISDS
regional governmenits, sectoral adminiistrationis and federal authorities The consultationis focused on
assessing the viability of the project, identifying potential areas of conflict betweeni stakeholders and
define areas of collaboration
All safeguards documenits will be disclosed in country and at the InfoShop as per the schedule in Section
F of the ISDS
E. Safeguards Classifi-cation Category is determined by the higlhest imipact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply
] S 1. - Significanit, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant techniical and institutionial risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionially manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF - Financial intermediary projects, social developmenit funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safegtiard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/An?alysis/MIaMiagement Plan-       Expected      Act7al
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              3/29/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/20/2003     2/19/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             2/10/2003     2/21/2003
Date of distributinig the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED              2/20/2003
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Fraineivork                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                3/14/2003     2/13/2003
Date of "in-counltry" disclosure                           3/28/2003     3/24/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             3/28/2003     4/3/2003
Indigenous Peoples Developmlent Plan/Framework              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of sibmissioni to InfoSlhop                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                       Date



6
ISDS
Task Team Leader.             John D. Riverson                             04/07/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists I  Nina Chee/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2  Antoine V. Lema/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3
Approved bv:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator Charlotte S. Bingham                       04/07/2003
Sector Manager/Director.       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                 04/07/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
' SeARcH     v FrLEDaAcK  _   sI~ ~ S] AP  _ J.SHOWCASE



