PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    A World Free ol Poverty
lInfoShop
Report No AB26
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                ETHIOPIA- ROAD SECTOR DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROGRAM II
(RSDSP II) - APL I
Region                      Africa Regional Office
Sector                      Roads and highways (90%); Central government administration (10%)
Project ID                  P044613
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 THE GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency         ETI-IIOPIAN ROADS AUTHORITY
Address                     Ethiopian Roads Authority
Address P 0 Box 1770, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person Ato Tesfamichael Nahusenay, General Manager
Tel 251-1-525392     Fax 251-1-514866      Email eral@telecom net et
Regional Roads Authorities - Selected as per project proposal
Address C/o P 0 Box 1770, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person
Tel      Fax        Email
Ministry of Capacity Building
Address P 0 Box 1082, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person Ato Wondwossen Kiflu
Tel 251-9-202459   Fax 251-1-542472     Email
Ministry of Infrastructure,
Address P 0 Box 1238, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person H E Haile Assegidie, State Minister
Tel 251-1-539029     Fax 251-1-515665      Email
Environment Category        A
Date P1D Prepared           April 9, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date          Junle 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
1 1. The Transport System. The transport infrastructure in Ethiopia comprises a road network
estimated at 33,000 km (of which about 16,000 km are federal roads and 1 7,000 km regional roads); a
780 km railway Inae from Addis Ababa to Djibouti (about 709 km withinl Ethiopia), a nationial merclanit
marine; and air transport facilities includinlg two international airports, seven major domestic airports,
and over 30 other domestic runways and airstrips. Ethiopia is a land-locked counltry and almost 98
percent of the country's export and import needs are presently served thIougIl the Djibouti port



2
PID
1.2   The Government Program for Road Sector Development. Recognizing the relative
importance of the road transport In supportinlg social and economliic growth and meeting poverty
alleviation objectives, GOE has given priority to improvinig the quality and quantity of the road
infrastructure. This priority is reflected in Government's Sustainable Development and Poverty
Reduction Program (SDPRP). To address the constrainits in the road sector related to restricted road
netwvork coverage and low standards, GOE formLilated a 1 0-year Road Sector Development Program
(RSDP, 1997-2007). The first five-year phase of the program (RSDP 1), 1997-2002, was officially
launched in September 1997, and ended in June 2002 Under RSDP 1, Government and donor-funded
projects have been implemented to rehabilitate the most essential core network. The World Bank,
European Commission, African Development Bank, OPEC Fund, Bank of Arab for Economic
Development in Africa, Nordic Development Fulid, and the Governments of Japan, Germany, Italy,
Ireland, Sweden and U.K., have provided external financinig to the Program to supplement the
contribution from GOE. Overall commitments to the RSDP 1 amounted to US$81 7.9 million compared
to the US$1607.4 million estimated by Government as needed at the Mid-Term review of the
IDA-financed RSDPSP in 2001. The level of commitments defined the final scope of the RSDP I and
about 81% of the expenditure target had been met by the end of RSDP 1.
1.3   IDA Support Program to RSDP Phase 1. IDA's support to RSDP was envisaged to be
provided in successive but overlapping road sector projects. As a start, the IDA Board approved the
Road Sector Developmenit Program Support Project (RSDPSP) on January 15, 1998 The Credit (Cr
3032-ET) for an amouL1t of SDR224 million (US$ 309 2 million equivalenit) was signed betveen the
Governimien1t and IDA on January 25, 1998 together with a Project Agreement signed between IDA and
the Ethiopian Roads Authority, for implementing the Project. The RSDPSP was the first of a phased
participation In a Sector Investment Program (SIP) designed to ilmplement the 1 0-Year RSDP. The
Credit proceeds for RSDPSP mainly supported. (i) rehabilitationi and upgrading of four major roads
(1,380 km); (ii) capacity building support to ERA for monitorinig and evaluating overall performance of
RSDP, as well as for finanicial management, environimiental and social impact monitoring.
The RSDPSP was complemented by other ongoing IDA-finaniced projects - Road Rehabilitation Project
(RRP- Cr 2438-ET) and the Roads Component of the Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP-Cr.
3438-ET), as well as special policy and strategy development studies finaniced with Japanese PHRD
Grant administered by the Bank, and funids from Europeani Commission, Nordic Development Fund,
GTZ, ADB and UK, all of whicih have been implemented under RSDP I
1 4   Sector Issues
The SDPRP and RSDPSP have identified a nuLimber of key issues:
Quality and Quantity of the Road Network. The road network is limited in both quality and coverage.
More than half of the road network in the country needs to be rehabilitated or reconstructed, and most of
the remaining network is either in, or rapidly falling into, a state In wlhichi routine and periodic
maintenance may soon be insufficient Much of the country does not have access to all-weather roads.
Estimates show that only 25 percent of Ethiopia's area is served by the modem road transport system.
Moreover, because the existing pattern of roads radiates from the capital, Addis Ababa, to major towns,
adjacent regions often lack links between them. Such inter-regional roads, if they existed, would
facilitate the growthi of trade between regions and promote nationial unity. Project planning has been
Im1lited to the application of selection criteria to individual roads or groups of roads; there has been
inadequate netvork plaininiig and programming procedures.



3
Institulional Refortm and Coln7erciaclzattion of ERA operation ERA's capacity was enh1aniced througl
TA support and training duli-ng implementation of the RSDP I in the areas of planninig, procurement,
contract administration and imlplemiienitation and network management. However, with intensificatioll of
the work program as proposed Llider RSDP 2, much more needs to be done to strengtlheni the critical
areas of review and approval of road designs, interinal regulations, project monitoring, evaluationi and
technical reporting.
Regional Road Authorities (RRAs). Tlle responsibility for constructioni and mainitenlanice of regional road
network has been handed over from ERA to RRAs since February 1993. However, the equipmenit and
workshop facilities handed over to RRAs were not sufficient to carry out road mainiteniance/ construction
In addition, the formation of efficient RRAs requires a well-trained manpower. During implementation
of the RSDP 1, a number of initiatives were undertaken by different donors to develop the capacity of the
RRAs especially with regard to planning and contract administrationi There is a need to further
strengthen the role of RRAs to more effectively plan, program, mobilize and administer finance and other
resources for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of regional roads. They also need to be
strengthened in their ability to discharge their responsibilities with regard to rural transport
Adequacy of road maintenance andfinancing arrangemients. The Road Fund (RF) has contributed to
providing resources for road maintenance. The contributions to the Road Fund have increased gradually
over the past three years with an increase in dedicated fuel levy and sales and mullicipality tax. The
RFA now appears to be in charge of its mandate to address routine maintenance financinig needs of the
road network and improvinig efficiency in the use of resources.
However, while routinle maintenance needs of the federal road network are being met, the requirements
of regional road networ-k as well as periodic maintenianice still need to be fully addressed. Of critical
importance is the ability to meet the requirements to maintaini roads in a passable condition especially
with further improvement and possible expansion of the network during RSDP 2. The needs could rise to
a substantial cost to the economy and make the current dedicated maintenance resources insufficient in
the long run. Hence, mechanisms to meet the shortfalls are required to ensure sustainability of road
maintenance, including a need to diversify the sources of fundinig for the Road Fund. In this regard, the
Road Fund Administrationi is expected to finalize arrangemiients and carry out maintenance performance
audits to ensure prompt and appropriate mainiteniance and to best use the mainltenance resources within
the targets set ulider the ERA Maintenance Action Plan (2002-2007).
DomestIc Construction Industry (DClI). One of the stated objectives of the 1997 Governmenit Letter of
Sector Policy was to strengthen the private contracting industry, including enhancing the capacity of
local contractors and consultants. The objective was to gradually increase the share of contractor
executed works from 11 percent in 1998/99 to 41 percent in 2001. Achievemenits to-date fall short of the
targets agreed in the Letter, mainly due to lack of capacity in the local industry as well as access to
finance. The DCI in Ethiopia is characterized by an inadequate capital base, old, limited and poorly
managed equipment fleets, and deficiencies in techinical, managerial, financial, and entreprenieurial skills,
as a result of previous policies that were not favorable to its development. The immediate requirement is
to strengthenl the capacity of DCI and increase their participation in road work contracts.
Equipment Constraints. The shortage of equipment and the inadequacy of its supporting arrangements
have been recognized as major constraints to effective road mainteniance. The shortage results from
inheriting equipment without a stock of spares and with a limited ability to both maintain what exists and
procure replacements. As a result, much of the equipmenit is not suited to mainteniance tasks, the age
profile is high and the equipimienit maintenianice load becomes progressively more difficult to meet with a
consistent decline in equipment availability. The ERA objective of devolutioni, decentralizationi and



4
PID
commercialization can only be effectively met when issues related to purchiase, preventive maintenance,
acquisitionl of spare parts, routille maintenance, major componenit overhaul have been resolved
Rzural Travel and Transport. The key issues identified in RRTPS are (a) absence of soulid
organizationial structures to cater for the characteristics and levels of travel and transport requirements at
the houselhold and comimluniity levels; (b) absence of planninig and programming methodologies to
consider the nature and size of transport demanid in improvinig access to economic and social services at
the local level; (c) lack of coordinationl and popular participation in the identification and prioritization of
rural roads; (d) lack of correspondence between design standards and travel and transport demanid
requirements; (e) shortcomings in the expansion of labor-based techniology in tihe context of generating
employment opportunity and promoting effective utilization of local resources In accordance with the
government's overall strategy.
Need to focus on social a.spects of transport and the broader development related issze.s. The focus in
the past has been on road network expansioni, rehabilitationi and maintenanice. The performance wvas
measuired by reduction in road rougililess index, quality of roads, vehicle operating costs, lengthi of roads
constructed, etc However, with a renewed focus on sustainability of investimients, poverty alleviation,
gender equality, participation and inclusioni, social and environmenital mitigation, there is a need to
design interventions to ensure that the quality of life is improved and sustainied for all the population in
the project areas. This requires monitoring and evaluating the impact of road investments (in addition to
improving the engineerinig standards) on improvinlg access for all, increasing employment (vith a special
focus on female labor force), iicreasing capacity of domestic contractors, improving safety standards,
and mitigating HIV/AIDS impact There is also the need to address travel and transport needs at the
village level and the federal road network. The need to include environimenital and social impact
considerations durinig the planning and implementation phase of road works has also become a pressing
issue Of particular focus is the sustainability of the sector In terms of financial, institutionlal,
environmenital, operational and regulatory aspects.
1.5 Government Strategy
The Government has prepared RSDP 11 program documnlieit includinig lessons learned from RSDP I
policies, proposed actions and scheduled wlhicih was presented to national and external stakeholders on
March 14, 2003. The program documlient and other supportinig documenits, viz., Policy and Capacity
Building of the Road Sector, December 2002, and Maintenance Action Plan (2002 - 2007), February
2003, provide the basis for the draft Letter of Sector Policy, wlich will be finalized and submitted to the
Bank for discussion durinig Negotiations. Key areas for strengtheninig the reforimi program and
investmenit allocation priorities have been identified, includinlg
*   Set up a mlore commercially oriented ERA organization
*   Commercialization and decentralization of ERA 's District Maintenance Offices (DMOsA )
*   Strengthen? the capacity of the RRAs and Woredas for decentralized delivery of improvements lo
ru7lral travel ca7d transport
*   Strengthen capacity of Local Private Contractors and Increase their Participation in Contracts
*   Strengthen the dotmiestic conistructioni industry. T
*   Strengthen Resoutrce Mobilization and Road Financing.
*   Maintenance Action Plan?
*   Network Planning
*   Road scafety and axle load reguilation and compliance.
*   Enhancedfocus on social and other development r elated impact of transport investments.



5
PID
2. Objectives
2.1    The Program Development Objectives.
The primary objective of the Road Program is to restore and expand Ethiopia's road netwvork to reduce
poverty and increase employment throughi promoting growth and access in a socially and
environmentally sustainable manner. The Program (APL) would support GOE's
Agriculture-Development Led Industrializationl (ADLI) and Sustainable Development and Poverty
Reduction Program (SDPRP) with the objective to realizing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
and contributing to govermiaent's decentralization efforts Thle main focus of the program is on (a)
construction and rehabilitationi of key links to remove constrainits to growth and access and expedite
exploitation of the vast natural resources, integrate the country, provide access to marginal and droughit
prone areas and reduce transportationi cost; (b) strengthening the road management and financinig reform
program to ensure sustainability; (c) developing the capacity and increasing the participation of domestic
consultants and contractors in the implemilenitationi of road contracts; and (d) developing a network based
approach and addressing social, environimenltal and development issues in a comprehensive manner.
2 2    Project Development Objectives (the Project APL 1)
The development objective of the RSDSP 11 Stage I (APL I) (the Project) is to.
(a)    construct, rehabilitate, upgrade and preserve the priority federal road network
(b)    strengtheni ERA reform program with a focus on (i) creating a more commercially oriented ERA
throughi upgrading systems and procedures (contract management, planning, procurement and
administration), (ii) creating commercially oriented District Maintenianice Organizationis (DMOs)
delivering cost effective maintenance services; (lii) supporting rational provision of maintenance
equipmenit; (iv) strengtheniing Regional Road Organizations (RROs); (v) developing a coherent planning
and programming approach based on network stabilization program, in whiicl federal and regional
agencies formulate common methodologies of allocation of available resources
(c)    improve resource mobilization, allocation and use for road maintenance and strengthen the Road
Fund Administrationi
(d)    develop capacity in program implementationi.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
An importanlt source of value added by Bank support is its comparative worldwide experience in the
preparation and implementation of major capital expenditure programs. The donor- comImIunLity active in
Ethiopia has acknowledged and recognized the Bank's leadershiip role during preparation of the RSDP
The Bank also benefits from the experience gained in implementing comprehenisive road sector
development programs with institutional reformis in other African countries. Anotiler source of
advantage is the Bank's experience in road sector reform in the region gained over the last ten years
througih the steerilg of the Road Management Initiative (RMI) and the Rural Travel and Transport
Program (RTTP) both of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP). This has provided
the Bank with the goodwill of beneficiaries and donors in creating a cooperative framework whiere sector
reforn has gradually been shaped, implemenited and monitored. The APL istfrument has been confirmed
to provide greater flexibility in adapting project design and financinig to client needs as they evolve. For
this, the Bank team has already gained the experience in developing transport project using the APL
instrumenit through the second stage in Uganda. The Bank's participation thus provides for better
continuity for the implementationi of the long-term national program for which an initial support is under
implementation.



6
PID
4. Description
The prioritized componenits for finanicing under Stage I (APLI) were revised to respond to the chanige
from the original IDA credit allocation to an IDA Grant allocation of US$127 million The components
and the costs were finalized after consultationi with ERA/GOE and confirmed during appraisal in April
2003. They comprise.
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Federal Roads
Upgrading and construction of Federal /Link Road
Construction Supervision
Rural Travel and Transport Program
HIV/AIDS Control and Preventioni, TA support services for ERA
Road Financinlg Study and Technical Auditing
Urban Transport Study
Preparatory Activities
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT          $64.44
IBRD
IDA
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK $1.37
LOCAL COMMUNITIES           $4.02
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR 1NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID)                 $5.03
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY - WORLD BANK $0.88
IRELAND, GOV. OF            $5 03
GERMANY: GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION (GTZ) $1.25
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE            $126 80
JAPAN: MINISTRY OF FINANCE - PHRD GRANTS $0 68
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND            $9.77
Total Project Cost          $219 27
6. Implementation
6.1    Administrative The overall program coordinationi will be the responsibility of the Ethiopian
Roads Authority (ERA), the legally autonomous Federal Governimlent Road Agency. ERA will also
manage and adminiister the Trunk and Major Link Roads Program, and initially, the ERTTP. ERA is
organized into three main departments as follows (A) Regulatory and Engineering Services
Departnment, (B) Operations Department, and (C) Humani Resouirce and Financial Managenment
Departineiit whichi carries out it responsibility throughl three Divisions Fiianice, Human Resources
Development and Personnel Administrationi. Under its Planiniig and Programminig Division of
Departmenit (A), ERA has six Branches responsible for Planning and Program Management,
Programming and Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation, Management Information Systems (MIS),
Environimental Managemenit, and Rural Roads Technical Support As part of this broad organizational
setup for implementinig the RSDP, ERA has set up a Program Advisory Office (PAO) under the General
Manager. Staff of the PAO have been supported by techilical assistance (TA), comprising an RSDP
Advisor (a senior highiway engineer/civil works contract administrationi specialist) funded by the EC,
who is on the second thiee-year term of his assignmienit The PAO advise the General Manager on matters
related to program coordination, includinig the coordinationi of TA and the related multi-donior support
and interests. In addition, a Road Inspectorate has been established whicih is accoulitable to ERA Board
to provide independenit inspectionl and monitorinig reports on the performanlce of the road sector
operations.



7
PID
The Regional Roads Autilorities (RRAs), whichi have been set up as legally autonomous Regional
Governments Road Agencies, are responsible for managinig and administering the Regional Roads
Program. Village Development Associations (VDAs) whose activities would be organized and
coordinated by Woreda Developmenit Councils (WDCs) and the Woreda Rural Development Office will
implement the Ethiopiani Rural Travel and Transport Program (ERTTP). The WDCs will be supported
by Regional Program Coordiniation Boards (RPCBs), and a Central Program Coordinating Board
(CPCB).
With the establishment of the new Cabinet of Ministers, in October 2001, a Ministry of Infrastructure has
been formed with the responsibility of developing the infrastructtire of the nationi This new ministry has
taken over all the duties of the previous Ministry of Transport and Communlications, the electric power
function of the previous Ministry of Mines and Energy, and partially the duties (the works part) of the
previous Ministry of Works and Urban Development. Under this new arrangemilent there are a numilber of
executive agencies that are accountable to the Ministry of Infrastrmcture. Amonig them are the Ethiopian
Road Authority, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Roads Transpor-t Authority, and the Ethiopianl Road
Fund Havying these key authorities that are involved with the different aspects of the transport sector
under the same umbrella is expected to facilitate efficient resolution of the key crosscutting sectoral
issues, without compromising the autollomy of the ERA
The administrationi of the Road Fund is presently the responsibility of the Road Fund Administration
(RFA) under the Road Fund Board comprising representatives of the Federal Government, Regional
States, ERA and local stakeholders. This arrangemenlt is to continue.
6.2    Procurement Procurement will be implemented by the Ethiopiani Roads AutIlority ulider its
Contract Administrationi Division or other divisions designated by the General Manager or the Deputy
General Manager, Engineerinig and Regulation, with the approval of the ERA Board. Institutional
Support to ERA for planning and procuremenit of projects, design review and approval, contract
admniistration, claims avoidance and management will also be provided under this project. The
IDA-finiance under APLI and financinlg by other donor partner-s - AfDB, DflD, EC, would further equip
ERA to implement the full scope of the procurement and contr-act administrationi responsibilities required
for the RSDP 2 implementation.
Civil works will be awarded to prequalified contractors througil international and/or nationial competitive
bidding procedures as appropriate in accordance with IDA Guidelinesfor Prociurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank with latest revision on January 1999. Goods will be
procured in accordance with the same guidelines. All associated supervision, as well as TA and other
consultant services, will be awarded to qualifying consultling firms (interniationial and locally reputable
and qualified firmas) in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrower-s (January 1997, lastly revised January 1999 and May 2002). Maintenance will be
carried out both by the District Maintenance Offices of ERA, whichi Is currently in the process of
commercialization, and by private contractors, in accordance with the agreed Maintenanice Action Plan.
6 3    Finanicial Management and Auditing. The overall program and project managenmenit and
coordination is the responsibility of the Ethiopian Roads Autilolrity (ERA). ERA will manage all the
components of the project in APL 1, but in APL I, the Regional Roads Autilorities (RRAs) and Ethiopian
Rural Travel and Transport Programii (ERTTP) Offices at all levels will be involved in the
implementationl. Currently, Ireland Aid and DFID are financinig the pilot implementationi of ERTTP
physical activities in 8 woredas, and their experience will be taken into account in designing the



8
PID
implementationi and funid flow arrangements in the second and subsequent phases of the APL
ERA is currently imiplemilenting two active projects financed by the World Bank, the Road Sector
Development Program Support Project (RSDPSP, Cr. 3032-ET) and componielits from Emergency
Recovery Project (Cr. 3438-ET). ERA had implemenlted various donor-financed projects in the past
successfully, including the RRP (Cr 2438-ET), whlichi was closed in December 2002. In the existing
active projects and the already closed ones, managemilent and administrationi of funids are done at a central
level by ERA and there has been no problem in disbursements and accountilng of funds
ERA will open a Special Account (SA) at the National Bank of Ethiopia IDA will transfer the initial
advance and subsequent deposits to the created SA ERA will then pay contractors and suppijers from the
SA.
Currently, the Audit Services Corporation is the external auditor of ERA This arrangement will continiue
for the future. The anilual audited financial statements, along withi the maniagemenlt letter, will be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
6 4    Disbursement of IDA Fulids There are two ways in disbursing funds from the Bank. The first is
the traditional-disbursemenit method, whicil uses SA, SOE and direct payment procedures The second is
the report-based methiod, in which regular Finalcial Monitorinig Reports (FMR) plus additional
statements will be the basis for disbursement ERA has selected the traditional way of disbursement
using SA, SOE and direct payment procedures.
6.5    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitorinig aiid Evaluation (M & E) will be the overall
responsibility of the M & E Branch of the Planninlg and Programmilig Division Under the RSDP Phase
1, special arrangements for collecting data annually on the agreed 19 program indicators were carried out
by a local consultant financed withi EC support. It is agreed with ERA and donor partners that M & E
data collection under RSDP2 will be continued ulider the same arrangements with EC finanicinig ERA
will report on these indicators as part of the annual reviews of project performance. Indicators were also
agreed for monitoring sector outcomes related to the various MDGs, as well as sector specific outputs
Baseline measurements will be made as part of the Corridor Development and Poverty Impact
Assessment studies being financed under a PHRD Grant
7. Sustainability
The critical factor required for sustainability of the program and project benefits is continued
Government commitmenit at the highiest level to sector and institLtionlal reform. Strengtilening the
institutional and organizationial capacity of road agenicies is essential for sustainable implemenitatioln of
the RSDP and thle up-keep of the road network. In addition, without fostering local contracting capacity
to carry out maintenance and rehabilitation works, the coulitry will continue to face capacity constrainits
to execute road program. Without greater resource mobilization, Governmenlt will continlue to face
budgetary constraints in funiding the required level of maintenanice. Actions to be undertaken durinig
RSDP 11 to address these issues are.
(a)    ERA's capacity to plan, procure and administer civil construction and service contracts, contract
administration, engineering design review and financial managemiient will be strengthened,
(b)    by involving key stakeholders, includinig direct beneficiaries and project affected peoples,
lawmakers and the civil society includinlg local leaders and citizens in project preparation and design, the
framework has been set for sustained mobilization of Govermiienit and local support essential for
successful imiplemenltation;
(c)    public-private partner ships in the delivery and management of transport services will be



9
PID
enhanced Term mainatenance contracts wlhich wvill lead to performance based mainteniance program is
also being developed as part of the commercialization of ERA's district maintenance offices operations,
and local contractor participation will be encouraged so as to improve efficiency in the use of resources,
(d)    major road works executioni capacity will be enhanced througil promotion and use of domestic
contractors,
(e)    resource mobilization and allocation to improve maintenanice of the road network will continue
to be improved. In addition, representation of the private sector on the Road Fund Board ensures
transparenlcy and accountability in the use of funds,
(f)   the participating regions/communities will finance up to 40 percent of the cost of low-level rural
travel and transport infrastructur-e and services development to ensuLe ownership of the proposed
program; and
(g)    a specific focus of the project will be on addressing social aspects of transport and broader
development related issues.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The importance of a realistic planning and programminig xvithini achievable goals is one of the key lessons
that has been drawn from implemenitation of the RSDP I. T'he targets set for RSDP I have not been fully
realized partly because of inadequate funidinig and lack of capacity The program objectives and targets
therefore were reviewed and re-assessed taking into account the actual and projected progress in
implementation, and how that could affect planinilg and programminig for RSDP II both in terms of the
realism of proposed targets and the implementation capacity and budgetary requirements. The early
capacity building provided to ERA in conitract administration, finanicial managemenit and planning served
as the bedrock for the effective procuremenlt processing and contract maniacemiient on the program, as
well as the reconciliation and bringinig up to date, the ERA entity accounts. The experience gained in
RSDP I further shows the importance of maintaininig support to ERA for the continued establishment and
implementation of effective functions for contract administration, financial management, planning and
programming and review and approval of road designs identified for RSDPII. ERA's proactive
consultationi and coordinationi of support from all agencies of Governmenit - includinig customs and
regulatory agencies, greatly improved the iimiplementation of the civil works program as compared to
works executed prior to the start of RSDP. The experience gained would be further improved and
extended in RSDP II. In this connectioni, the importanice of ensuring finishied designs and finisied
contract processing, as well as thorough pre-screening of contractors at prequalificationi stage have been
essential prerequisites for successful implementationi of the ongoing road improvemlient contracts The
association of local professionals and technicians with interinationial firms have provided the ingredienit
for essential capacity building in the domestic private conisultinig industry, and for effective
implementation of consultanicy services withini the country. Additional lessons drawn from RSDP I and
reflected in RSDP II project design include the need to:
*   recognize the sequence of operations and mutual inter-depenidenice of critical activities
*   recognize seasonal and other constraints on implemenltationi and therefore the contractual provisions
such as completion period
*   observe proper maintenanice cycle and include in the plan
*   strengtheni design review capacity in ERA and other implemenitinig agencies
*   integrate right of way managemenit and adverse social impact mitigation xvitih contract
implementation
*   consider other donor requirements, procedures and policies and coordinate and harmonize themil for
effective imiplementationl
*   qualify management and control for all aspects of project activities
*   delegate more powers to supervising engineers for decisions related to contract implemenltation
*   strengthien domestic construction capacity



10
PID
*   need to inforimi and ensure inclusion of all stakeholders in the preparation and implementationi of the
program and address their social needs.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The potential negative impacts include: soil erosion, temporary loss of strips farmland
along the road alignmenit, disturbances in the water quality, noise and dust are presumed to induce
adverse physical environmental imipacts durinig road constructioln work. The total number of houselholds
to be affected by the project operations of the five roads has been estimated in the Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs) to 1,763 households of which 429 houselholds will be involunltarily displaced by the 5 road
projects, i e., about 86 involuntary displaced households per road The final nulimber of households to be
affected will be determined at the completion of the detailed designs
The 5 road sections to be rehabilitated in the first year's program are
Nazareth - Assela road section, Dera - Magna road section, Nekempt - Mekenajo road, Woreta-Gob
Gob road section, and Adigrat - Adwa road section.
Under RSDP 1, the borrower has laid the foundation for sound environimienital and social managemiielnt
within the roads sector in Ethiopia. As part of the RSDP T, EA recommenidations, an Environmenltal
Monitoring and Safety Branclh (EMB) was established under the ERA  It consists of an ecologist, a
sociologist and an engineer The EMB has been mainily engaged in reviewing environmental assessmenits
reports prepared by design and EA consultants Environimienital monitoring activities are also being
undertakeni by the EMB  EMB operations are supported by an Environmilental Procedures Manial and a
Resettlement/Relhabilitation Policy Framework prepared under RSDP I. Both documents have been
reviewed and cleared by ASPEN. In year 2003, the EMB changed name in order to include safety Issues.
The Branch is now called, the Environmental Monitoring and Safety Branch (EMSB).
Individual Environmenital Assessments (EA) including Environimental Monitorinig Plans (EMPs) for the
first year's road program (5 roads) have been prepared These have been approved and cleared by
ASPEN and disclosed in Ethiopia as wvell as at the Infoshop. Likewise, Resettlement Action Plans (RAP)
for the first year's road program have been prepared, approved and cleared by ASPEN and disclosed in
Ethiopia and at linfosliop.
RSDP 2 will contiuie to support EMSB to implement EMPs prepared for each of the proposed road
projects. The program will also strengthen the analytical and maniagemiienit capacity of the ulnit through
training and logistical support.
10. List of factual technical documents:
Environmenital Assessmenlt
Resettlement Action Plans for the 5 roads to be rehabilitated/constructed under APLI
(i)    Upgrading of the Nekempt-Mekenajo road (127 kim) to bitumen standard.
(ii)   Rehabilitation/upgrading of the Nazareth-Assela road section (79 km) of the Nazareth -
Assela - Dodola and Shashemene Goba road.
(mii)  Upgrading to bitumen standard the Woreta-Gob Gob road section (99 km) of the Woreta
- Woldiya road.
(iv)   Upgrading of the Adigrat-Adwa/AdiAbun road section (108 kin) of the Adigrat-Shire
road.
(v)    Constructioni of the Dera-Magna section (I 19 km) of the Dera-Mechara road.



t11
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
John D. Riverson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 251-1-627700
Fax: 251-1-627717
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  11/20/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEACH         FEEDOACK   I    FTE MAP



