Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4086 
Operation Name 
MALAWI  POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Agricultural marketing 
and trade (20%); General industry and trade sector (10%); Law 
and justice (10%); Petrochemicals and fertilizers (10%) 
Project ID 
P107303 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 13, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 5, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Malawi’s strong macroeconomic performance continues. Improved macroeconomic management has 
been reflected in good performance under the IMF programs since June 2004. The sixth and final review 
of the PRGF was approved by the Board of the IMF on July 14, 2008. A new program has been prepared 
and submission to the IMF Board is awaiting approval of Malawi’s national budget by parliament. As a 
result of strong macroeconomic performance, domestic debt continues to decline. As of June 2008, it 
was at 11.6 percent of GDP, down from 25 percent of GDP in 2004. Inflation has been declining, 
reaching single digits in January 2007. Interest rates have also been on a downward trend, with average 
prime lending rates currently around 15 percent, from close to 40 percent in 2004. Improved 
macroeconomic conditions have seen credit to the private sector increase. Between May 2007 and July, 
credit to the private sector increased by 20 percent. Growth over the past three years has also been 
strong, at above 7 percent every year since 2006.    
The Government is in the second year of implementing its overarching development strategy, the 
Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS). The strategy outlines the Government’s economic 
growth and development priorities for the five years between 2006/07 and 2010/11. The MGDS 
recognizes that strong and sustainable economic growth is key to reducing poverty.  The strategy seeks 
to achieve high growth rates by creating a conducive environment for the private sector to increase 
production for the export market. In this regard, it sees the agriculture and agro-processing sectors as 
key drivers.  
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy envisages a series of DPLs for supporting the Government in 
its implementation of the MGDS. Therefore, through PRSCs, the Bank is supporting policy and 
institutional reforms that are aimed at helping the Government achieve its medium-term policy 
objectives as outlined in the MGDS. The PRSC therefore complements existing and planned investment 
projects. Further, recent increases in global fuel and fertilizer prices could reverse the gains outlined 
above, as they open a fiscal and balance of payments gaps that need to be filled if macroeconomic 
performance is to be sustained. The CAS envisages use of DPLs to help the Government respond to any 
shocks that may threaten the Government’s medium-term program. 
 
Page  2
2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The PRSC series in general aims at 
contributing towards increased economic growth and poverty reduction 
by supporting implementation of policy and institutional reforms that will lead to the following medium-term 
outcomes: (i) increased agricultural productivity, (ii) increased private sector investment, and (iii) sustained 
improvements in fiscal management.
 
Within this framework, the proposed PRSC-2 seeks to achieve three main objectives.  Firstly, it builds 
on progress achieved in the reform program started under PRSC-1, and lays a basis for further progress 
under PRSC-3.
 
Secondly,
 
it continues to provide a framework for harmonizing Bank support for policy 
and institutional changes with other development partners.  Lastly, it will be 
the Bank’s instrument for 
augmenting financial support to help the Government cope with negative fiscal and balance of payments 
effects created by increasing global prices of fertilizer and fuel.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) to the Republic of Malawi is the 
second in a series of three annual development policy lending (DPL) operations to assist the 
Government’s reform program in support of the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS).   
 
The credit selectively supports the reform efforts by the Government in the following areas: (i) 
improved functioning of agricultural markets with a focus on the establishment of a warehouse and 
trading company, and taking steps that will form the basis of increased participation of the private sector 
in the fertilizer subsidy program; (ii) improved business environment through a reduction in the length 
of time it takes to enforce commercial contracts; (iii) improved economic governance with a focus on 
four areas: improved payroll management through a review of the Human Resource Management 
Information System (HRMIS) and the carrying out of a Personnel Audit; improved budget process 
through the introduction of a calendar that incorporates all budget related activities; improved timeliness 
in external financial accountability through the submission of a delayed audit report to Parliament; and 
improved debt management through Cabinet approval of a debt management policy.  
4. Environment Aspects 
During the preparation of PRSC-1, the Bank reviewed the possible impact of PRSC-supported reforms 
in agricultural marketing, increased fertilizer use, and improving the environment for doing business, but 
found that the negative environmental impacts of these reforms is likely to be minimal. Since reforms 
being supported under PRSC-2 are a continuation of reforms started under PRSC-1, there are no 
significant negative environmental impacts expected under the proposed credit.
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
Page  3
3
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Khwima Nthara 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5394+3222 
Fax: +265 1 773 908 
Email: knthara@worldbank.org 
Location: Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD) 
 
