Document of     MICROyFIqME Cot-Y
The World I
6c port, No.   S 4g"AJ   Type: (. 5AR)
Goi!:i, CARL,/ X32'5bm      l4:~    M
FOR OFFICIAL USIS
GaJ    3                                            Report No 8952-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SAHARA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 4, 1991
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
fThis doument ks a resicbd dis o ad may be nsed by r s        only in tae peromance of
ti offkid dutes. its co_tns may not othrWi be dsle        Wod Ran  antholtMn



C_URRUEY  EGVALENTS
(March 1991)
Currency Unit     -  Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00              DA 16.60
DA 1.00           - US$0.60
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACV         -    Agent Communal de Vulgarisation
AGID        -    Agence  Nationale  de  Realisation  et  de  Gestion  des
Infrastructures Hydrauliques pour l'Irrigation et le Drainage
ANRH        -    Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques
ANRH-DRS    -    Direction Regionale du Sud de 1'ANRH
APFA        -    Accession a la Propriete Fonciere Agricole
cDARS       -    Commissariat au Developpement de l'Agriculture des Regions
Sahariennes
CFVA        -    Centre de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole
CI          -    Continental Intercalaire
CT          -    Complexe Terminal
CTHE        -    Commission Technique Tuniso/Algerienne de l'Hydraulique et de
1' Environnement
DAD         -    De1lgu6 de l'Agriculture de Daira
DAS         -    Domaine Agricole Socialiste
DDAHA       -    Division pour le Developpement des Activit6s Hydrauliques et
Agricoles
DP          -    Direction de la Planification (Ministry of Agriculture)
EAC         -    Exploitation Agricole Collective
ERESS       -    Etude des Ressources en Eau du Sahara Septentrional
INRA        -     Institut National de la Recherche Agricole d'Algerie
IDCN        -    Institut pour le D6veloppement des Cultures Maraicheres
INPV        -    Institut de la Protection des V4gdtaux
ITAS        -     Institut de Technologie de l'Agriculture Saharienne
ITDAS       -     Institut Technique de Developpement de l'Agronomie Saharienne
OAMVOR      -    Office d'Amenagement et de Mise en Valeur du Perimbtre de
l'Oued R'hir
ORD         -    Office Nationale des Dattes
OPIOR       -    Office des Perimetres Irrigu6s de l'Oued R'Hir
PCU         -    Project Coordination Unit
SONELGAZ    -    Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFICIAL WI ONLY
STA1F APPASAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AD POPA REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SAAR  REGIONAL DMELOMT  M
Loan and Prgiect Summary
BgXWrrov:               Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
US$57 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
Interest will be at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Proiect Oblectives:     The  proposed  Project  would:        (a)  support  an
environmentally sound development program for the Sahara;
(b) assist Government in the definition of a strategy
for agricultural development within the constraints
determined by that program; (c) strengthen institutions
dealing with management, monitoring, and control of water
resources; and (d) test the technical, organizational
and managerial aspects included in the Project in a first
phase of renovation of oases.
--^ecmuting Agent:      "Commissariat au Ddveloppement de l'Agriculture des
R6gions Sahariennes"
Ptrject Description:    The  proposed  Project  consists  of  the  following
components: (a) Institutional Development -provision
of the means to plan and monitor agricultural development
in the region, including establishment of a monitoring
system for water resource use and water and soil quality,
strengthening of the applied research, training
institutions and extension services, and creation of an
agency for O&M of the drainage infrastructure, and of
a Project Management Unit to coordinate Project
implementation; (b) Rehabilitation of Oases -drilling
of wells, provision of pumping equipment and construction
of irrigation and drainage networks; (c) On-farm
Development -agriculture improvement and supply of
inputs; (d) Studies, Technical Assistance and Training -
preparation of development plans, feasibility and
environmental assessments for future investments in the
sector, provision of technical assistance and training.
Benefits and Rlsks:     Establishment of the basis for a comprehensive and
controlled use of the ground water resources to support
a balanced and environmentally sound development in the
Algerian Sahara; setting up procedures for an adequate
operation of the hydro-agricultural infrastructure;
increase in revenues of the farming community, presently
suffering from shortage of water, decreasing yields and
physical degradation of the irrigation and drainage
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- ii 
networks. The risks concern primarily (a) Government's
commitment to restrain the on-going land distribution
in the region, which if allowed to continue at the same
pace as in the past would jeopardize the sustainable use
of the water resources, and (b) the lack of farmers'
participation in maintaining the farm drainage system,
complementing the Government's investment effort.
nIronMental Issues:   The proposed Project has been reviewed in accordance with
the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A,
and placed in environmental screening category B. The
proposed Project would not require preparation of an
environmental assessment and would support improved
environmental management in the Project area through
incorporation of environmental issues into planning
studies and improvements in water management, soil use
and crop protection by rehabilitation, demonstration,
and research activities.
Kstima$ed Pro ec2t Costs                   Local        Foreign     Total
-US$ million -------
Institutional Development                   3.8           5.2        9.0
Rehabilitation of Oases                    24.1          33.1        57.2
Studies/Tecb.Assist./Train.                 0.7           1.7        2.4
On-Farm Development                        6.1            6.5        7.6
Total Base Costs               29.7         46.5        76.2
Physical Contingencies          4.3          6.3        10.6
Price Contingencies             3.1          4.5 7L6
Total Project Costs            37.1/ii      57.3        94.4
/g Including US$17.5 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Local       Foreign      Total
-,US$ million -------
World Bank                                 -        57.0         57.0
Government                             17.0          0.3         17.3
Beneficiaries                           2.6L_                     2.6
Net Project Cost                 19.6         57.3        76.9
Taxes and   Duties               1L.S            - *.5
Total Project Costs       37.1         57.3         94.4
Note: We understand that, under an already-signed loan agreement, EIB is expected
to assist Government in financing its contribution.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank PY            1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998
------------------ US$ Million----------
AnuUal              5.0    7.0   12.0   12.0    8.0    8.0        5.0
Cumulative          5.0   12.0   24.0   36.0   44.0   52.0    57.0
Economic Rate of Return: 17 percent
NaO: IBRD 22329



STAFF APOUSLUPR
DE1OCRATIC AND PQPULAR REPUALIC OF AQlGRIA
Table of Contents
I.   INTRODUCTION    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.   Place of Agriculture in the Economy . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.   Recent Developments in the Agricultural Sector  . . . . .      3
C. Agriculture in the Sahara.                                       4
D.   Sector and Regional Issues Relevant to the Project  . . .      5
III. BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERPORMANCE  . . . . . . .      7
IV. THE PROJECT AREA..8
A. Introduction ..                                                  8
B.   Physical Characteristics  .... .  .    .   .                   9
C.   Water Resources .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D.   Population .             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
E.   Land Tenure and Cropping Systems .       . . . . . . . . . . .  11
F.   Agriculture Support Services .        . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
G.  Infrastructure .... . . . . . .                                17
V.   TilE PROJECT .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  19
A.   Rationale for Bank Involveent .    .  .  . .......  .   .     19
B.   Concept and Objectives .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
C.   Components .             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
D.   Detailed Features .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
E.   Status of Design .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
P.   Costs .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
G.   Financing .....  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
H.   Procurement . . .. ................... .                      28
I.   Disbursements ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
This report is based on findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited Algeria
in March 1990, composed of Mr. Carlos Gois (Task Manager), Ms. L. Effron
(Economist), Messrs W. Van Tuijl (Sr. Irrigation Engineer), S. Lintner (Sr.
Environment Specialist), P. Van Der Veen (Consultant Agriculturalist), and N.
Saadoun (Consultant Engineer).



- ii -
Table of Contents cont'd  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page ng,
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
A.   Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
B.   Execution and Maintenance of Project Works. Purchase of Goods  34
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     35
D.   Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .     36
VII.  BENFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......  .   .......  ..  .   .          36
A.   General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
B.   Land Use, Yields, and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . .     37
C.   Marketing and Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     40
D.   Farm  Incomes    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
E. Cost Recovery .43
F. Economic Analysis .45
G.   Risk and Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     46
H. Sustainability .47
I. Environmental Aspects .48
VIII. AGREMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .49
In-text Tables
Table 4.1 - Water Resources .11
Table 5.1 - Project Cost Summary .26
Table 5.2 - Price Contingency Rates .27
Table 5.3  - Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Table 5.4 - Procurement Arrangements .30
Table 5.5  - Disbursement Categories  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Table 7.1  - Cropping Patterns and Crop Yields  . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Table 7.2  - Increases of Arnual Production from the Project Area . .    39
Table 7.3  - Financial Budgets and Returns to Family Labor  . . . . .    43
Table 7.4 - Cost and Rent Recovery .45
Sugporting Tables
Table 1.   Project Componants by Year  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  51
Table 2.   ProJect Cost Summary  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    52/3
Table 3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan   . . .      54
Table 4.   Total Budget Allocation Estimates by Agency . . . . . . .     55
Table 5.   Major Procurement Packages .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     56
Table 6.   Vehicles  .57. .  .  .  .    i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  57
Table 7.   List of Oases - Characteristics-Costs . . . . . . . . . .     58
Table 8.   Ground Water Balance in Oued R'hir-Project Scenario  . .      59
Table 9.   Ground Water Balance in Oued R'hir-Full Rehabilitation  .     60
Table 10.  Land Tenure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     61
Table 11.  Supervision Plan  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  62
Table 12.  Cost Recovery ....                   .                        63
Table 13.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File     64



iii.-
1.   Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      65
2.   Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      66
NU: IBRD 22329 - Project Area
LIST OF ANNEXES IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUHE
Annex 1    - Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 2    - Guidelines for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 3    - Prices and Conversion Factors used in Economic Analysis
Annex 4    - Farm Models
Annex 5    - Technical Assistance, Training, and Studies
Annex 6    - Environment Review
Annex 7    - Extension and Applied Research
Annex 8    - Irrigation and Drainage Requirements



STff   RAISAL RPOT
DEMOCRATI£CAND AOPULAR REPUBLIC OP ALAERIA
MHARLREGNAL DEVELOPEN  PRO
I. - TODUCTION
1.01        In the early 1960s, Algeria was a net exporter of food.  During the
next 30 years, the trade balance in agriculture deteriorated steadily so that
Algeria now imports some 60 to 70 percent of its basic food requirements.
Agricultural exports are negligible and overall Algeria's food imports account
for about 20 percent of total merchandise imports.   In the early 1980s,
Government placed increasing emphasis on the agricultural sector especially on
the rehabilitation and development of new irrigated areas with a view to reverse
the deterioration in the trade balance. These developments benefited mainly the
northern plains where the bulk of the population lives.   With the growing
awareness of the untapped land and water resources in the Sahara, and of the
need, for social reasons, to develop neglected areas, Government has more
recently given consideration to development efforts in the South. At the same
time, however, Government is aware of the fragile nature of these resources and
the need to develop a coherent strategy and plan for developing them in this
region.
1.02        The project was identified by a joint World Bank-FAO/CP mission
which evaluated a number of Government proposals for development in southern
Algeria. A report was prepared in February 1988 proposing an investment project
for the renovation of 6,500 ha of oases and expansion of 1,000 ha of new
plantations in the Oued R'hir Valley, as the most important and representative
area for the production of date palm trees.  The high cost of the proposed
project was identified as an issue; however, the need to develop both lower cost
alternatives and an adequate institutional framework for development of such a
potentially fragile area, led to an alternative approach, proposed in a
preparation report of FAO/CP in September 1989. This included limiting direct
investments during the first phase to about 1,600 ha of the lowest cost
investments and strengthening the planning and monitoring infrastructure in the
region.   The pre-appraisal mission recommended increasing the support for
planning to cover the five major wilayate (provinces) to be developed in the
medium term, and opted for selecting oases in the area for rehabilitation and
further development on the basis of water deficiency, which led to the present
proposed component for the rehabilitation of about 3,500 ha of date palm
plantations.
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Place of Agriculture in_the Economy
2.01        Out of a total area of 238 million hectares in Algeria, only three
percent, or 7.5 million hectares are arable. Fallow occupies, on average, more
than 40 percent of arable land.  Between 1985 and 1987, cereals covered an
average of some 2.9 million ha or 60 percent of cultivated area. Fodder crops



- 2 -
occupied roughly 750,000 ha or 15 percent of the total, tree crops 400,000 ha
or 8 to 9 percent, and vegetable crops 250,000 ha or 5 to 6 percent. Between
300-400,000 ha are irrigated, but there is potential to expand this to somewhere
between 750-800,000 ha. The irrigated area represents about 10 percent of the
total cropped area nd generates between 30 and 40 percent of the sector value-
added.
2.02        Agricultural development has his- orically been concentrated in the
north of the country, where the best land is found and where farming conditions
(climate, infrastructure and markets) are the most favorable for the majority
of crops. Until very recently, most of the best land was farmed by the state
farm sector. These farms were formed immediately after independence in 1962 on
the narrow coastal strip in the north that had been cultivated by the Europeans.
The creation of state farms involved the consolidation of old European farms,
averaging 120 ha each, into larger units of almost 1,000 ha each. The Government
then added some 6,000 collective farms in the 1970s, built on state, communal
and expropriated land.
2.03        The traditional private sector operated just south of the coastal
strip covered by the state farms.   These traditional small and medium-sized
private farms covered almost two-thirds of arable land (some five million ha)
but they were highly fragmented and few were larger than three ha.
2.04        Following independence, partly due to the rapid development of oil
and industry, the share of agriculture in Algeria's GDP declined significantly
over two decades, falling from around 13 percent in the early 1960s to around
7 percent in the mid-1970s, and remaining between 6 to 9 percent (in constant
1980 terms) ever since. Moreover, rural-urban migration has been high with rural
population growth averaging only 1.2 percent p.a., compared to a national average
of 3.1 percent p.a.   Nonetheless, the rural areas remain important in the
national picture, as about half of tVe population of 24 million people still
live in the countryside, and one-quarter of the labor force remains employed in
the agricultural sector.
2.05        During the 1960s and 1970s, most of the Government's investments in
agriculture were directed at the state farm sector, and the private sector,
which still retained some 65 percent of the land, was virtually neglected. The
state also dominated marketing activities through monopoly agencies for
distribution of inputs and collection of outputs. From these agencies, state
farms received some 65 percent of total fertilizer distribution and 75 percent
of tractors, while they covered only 35 percent of the land. Despite better
access to resources and inputs, the state farms performed only marginally better
than private farms for the cereals crops and had consistently worse yields for
other crops.
2.06        In general, crop yields in Algeria are low in comparison with
neighboring countries with similar climatic conditions, and have generally been
stagnant during the last twenty-five years. Wheat yields, for example, have
averaged 60 to 80 percent of those of Morocco and Tunisia over the past 15 years.
This has occurred despite the fact that input and equipment use has been more
intensive than in neighboring countries. Nonetheless, agricultural growth has



been fairly high, averaging 5.5 percent p.a. since 1980. This is due primarily
to a shift into higher value, higher yielding fruits and vegetables, and an
increase in livestock production.   It is noteworthy that this growth is not
attributable to increases in productivity.
B. Regent Developments in thl Aurgcultnral Sector
2.07        In the early 1980s, the Government decided to improve the performance
of the sector by introducing measures to liberalize agricultural markets. Prices
for most fruits and vegetables were freed in 1982.   Starting in 1983, the
Government raised the prices of inputs, and streamlined a number of official
marketing agencies. Access to inputs, equipment and general credit was gradually
extended to private producers.
2.08        In 1987, the Government decided to dissolve the socialist sector by
converting existing state farms into autonomous private management units. Some
3,400 state farms, averaging about 700 ha, were broken up into groups of about
6-7 private farmers, each group with about 80 ha. This reform represented a
shift from a system characterized by centralized control of investment allocation
decisions, production planning and fixed prices, to one based on decentralized
market forces. The weather has been poor in the three crop years following this
reform, resulting in disappointing average harvests, but with sufficient water,
yields and production leve,.s have increased. In general, farmers appear to be
working harder than ever before and the expectation is that this reform will have
a positive impact on agricultural productivity.
2.09        The new orientation for agricultural development, as defined in
Government's 1990-1994 medium term strategy, seeks to decrease dependence on the
highly variable climate, to increase productive potential, and to ensure a more
rational use of water resources, notably by the development of small and medium-
scale irrigation and the use of supplemental irrigation for cereals. Emphasis
is put on the establishment of economically and technically viable conditions
for improving productivity and better extension and input delivery services for
the sector. Outstanding issues in the sector relate to the need for reforms in
marketing inputs and output, to establishing a coherent system of price
incentives that send signals for efficient resource use, and to putting in place
a means of screening public investments for their economic contribution to
meeting Government's objectives.
2.10        In an effort to increase total agricultural production, reduce
regional differences, and stem migration to the north, Government has also been
giving increasing priority to development of the arid and semi-arid regions,
south of the Atlas Mountains traditionally named as "Sahara Region". To this
end, the Five-Year Plan of 1985-89 included: (a) distributing land in the most
mountainous regions of the country and in the Sahara to private farmers and
providing them with means to develop irrigation on their land under a program
called Accession a la Propridt6 Fonci&re (APFA); (b) rehabilitating existing
irrigation infrastructure and repairing drainage structures on date palm oases;
(c) deep well drilling for large-scale cereal production in the Sahara; and (d)
renovating aging palm plantations. For development of the South in the medium
term, 1990-94, Government plans to continue the APFA program of land distribution



4-
to private farmers, as well as to encourage large-scale wheat production in the
Sahara (although on a limited area). The rehabilitation of oases for date palm
tree production is also an important objective.   Given that some of these
activities uill compete for the same sources of water, and given the dangers of
overuse and ultimate deterioration in the water resources (which for the most
part are non-renewable), these development activities should be carried out in
a carefully planned context, with well-defined criteria for selection of
investment, and with appropriate monitoring of the impact of the development on
the soil and water quality and quantity. One of the objectives of the proposed
Project Is to help ensure that this is achieved.
C. A"rLculture in thS &kara
2.11        The Sahara regions of Algeria contain between 7 to 8 percent of the
total population. Population density is approximately one person per square
kilometer, with vast zones practically uninhabited. One-thirci of the country's
nomadic population is found in this region.
2.12        Only one percent of the land area in this region is currently arable
(234,000 ha), of which half is usually in fallow and one quarter irrigated. The
region i8 characterized by extremely dry climatic conditions which have primarily
led to oasis agriculture, mostly small traditional palm tree plantations centered
around the rare sources of water.
2.13        Historically, development of these water sources was carried out in
a manner which preserved the fragile equilibrium and sustainability of resources.
More recently, however, with new drilling techniques, large-scale production with
irrigation networks has been developed, with the potential to upset the
equilibrium of resources, and causing problems of drainage and soil salinity.
2.14        Some 70,000 ha are cultivated under irrigation with annual crops,
including winter cereals, forage crops, winter and summer vegetables. Mosc of
those are grown as inter-crops in the traditional oases and in the modern date
plantations. In recent years, cultivation of field crops (cereals and forage
crops) is being developed outside the date plantations through pivot irrigation
using water from deep aquifers (para. 2.22).
2.15        Date palms are the dominant crop in the Saharan region, but have
been neglected for several reasons. In the first place, deteriorating irrigation
and drainage infrastructure has resulted in either salinization of soils and
asphyxiation of palm roots, or in the withering of the trees due to lack of
water. In addition, the strong migration toward the north has reduced manpower
svailsble for seasonal maintenance of crops and infrastructure.   moreover,
mechanization remains limited because of the small size of the farms (most have
less than two hectares) and to the irregular alignment of trees in the
traditional plantations. Finally, some oases of southwest Algeria have been
contaminated by the bayoud (Fusarium oxysporum) disease caused by a soil-born
fungus, which causes the tree to wilt and subsequently to die. Since there is
no known method to eradicate it, this malady has the potential of continuing
toward the palm plantations in the East. Eastward progression of the disease
has been stopped for the last ten years.   However, strict sanitary control



X - -
measures are always in place to try to prevent its spread. These deteriorating
crop conditions and the lack of renovation activities have resulted in an aging
of the palm population. It is estimated that more than half of the date palms
are past their productive age.
2.16        Livestock raising is of little significance in the region, compared
to other parts of the country.   However, it has an important role for home
consumption. Many families in the oases, even urban residents, raise a few goats
and sheep for meat and milk to be consumed at special occasions. Most of the
forage produced in the oases is used for this small scale livestock production.
In the northern part of the Sahara Region, migrant flocks of sheep, goats and
camels, mainly owned by semi-nomadic herders, are raised on the sparse range
vegetation. Cattle are less suited to the region and their number is limited
to some 7,000 head. The goat population increased from 324,000 head in 1979 to
785,000 in 1987. Sheep and goat numbers fluctuate with availability of range
vegetation in the northern fringe of the region, and with the prices and
availability of concentrated feed, baled straw, and hay imported from the North
(feed concentrates are subsidized). Commercial poultry production (both layers
and broilers) was promoted on the collective farms and is expanding by private
investors during the cool season (October through April). While there is an
important local market, its profitability depends largely on the quality of
management, on the feed prices, and on a secure source of feed.
2.17        The application of the law on access to property ownership (APFA)
issued in 1983 will have an important impact on the future development of the
region. This law defines the rules by which anyone of Algerian nationality can
acquire agricultural property or publicly owned property in the saharan regions
which could be used for agricultural purposes if irrigated. Irrigation is a
condition for the transfer of the property. The recipient has five years in
which to install an irrigation system. If not installed, the land reverts back
to the State.
2.18        By the end of 1989, a little over 200,000 hectares had been allocated
in the nine wilayate of the Sahara region, with close to 50,000 participants
(including family members, this would mean over 300,000 people potentially
benefitting from the program). To date, only about 60,000 ha are actually being
cultivated, and of this, only about 8,000 ha had been planted to date palm trees.
In some cases, the slow pace of development is due to the high cost of the
infrastructure required, and for both Government and privately initiated
development (with the help of the agricultural credit bank), funds have been in
short supply. The full development of the 200,000 ha of land already allocated
has important implications for the future use and availability of the groundwater
resources for some of the existing oases; the ability to monitor and control this
development is therefore a critical aspect of future planning and investment in
the region, and an important objective of the proposed project.
D. Sector and Ltgional Issues Relevan to the Projegt
2.19        Because it possesses significant available land and water resources,
the Sahara region can be developed agriculturally through increased irrigation.



- 6 -
Pursuit of this objective, however, raises a number of sector and regional
issues.
2.20        Water Resources.  The southern region contains a significant amount
of ground water resources which can be tapped for irrigation development.
However, the rate at which they can be exploited on a sustainable basis is
limited. A large part of the water available is non-renewable. As discusse
in para. 2.18, more than 200,000 ha have already been distributed in the SoutlA
to farmers under the AFFA. Full development of this area alone would exceed the
estimated potential water resources in certain zones. Clearly over-exploitation
of water resources can lead, in addition to premature depletion, to serious
problems including higher pumping costs, salinization of aquifers, and
unfavorable impact on existing or future development projects in neighboring
countries (para. 2.22). The Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques (ANRH)
is responsible for the inventory, monitoring, mapping, control of the
exploitation, use, preservation of the quality and quantity of the ground water
resources. However, its means of intervention are limited and insufficient to
accomplish its mandate. Careful planning and execution are necessary to ensure
that the land put under irrigation is consistent with the water resources
available and that the pursuit of near-term growth does not jeopardize
development.   The proposed Project would address these issues by assisting
Government (a) in establishing regional development plans where environmental
concerns and water resources potential would be paramount; (b) in setting up a
monitoring system to control and curb the use of these water resources; (c) in
strengthening the ANRH; and (d) in revitalizing the dialogue with the neighboring
countries for the exploitation of the common aquifers.
2.21        Saltnization.  Inadequately planned and managed exploitation of the
aquifers in the Sahara region can have adverse effects on the water and soil
quality. Certain areas are already threatened by salinity problems. Because
of a lack of natural outlets or deterioration of drainage networks, the level
of surface water tables has increased and resulted in degradation of existing
palm plantations due to adverse salinity conditions.   In addition,  badly
maintained wells can lead to intrusion from salt contaminated layers;
uncontrolled extraction may result in destruction of aquifer interfaces and
consequent pollution. The proposed Project would improve the overall drainage
system and would set up a system to monitor the levels of water and soil salinity
in the Oued R'hir valley. Government has also established a program to close
about 500 wells in bad condition in the Oued R'hir valley (para. 4.31).
2.22        International  Implications.    The  Sahara water  resources  come
essentially from two large systems: (a) the Continental Intercalaire (CI), an
aquifer of considerable thickness (200 m to 1,000 m), very deep ( down to -
2,000 m); its water has relatively low mineral content, is artesian, and warm
(>50 OC); this aquifer extends over 1 million kin' in Algeria, and continues to
Tunisia; and (b) the Complexe Terminal (CT), a more recent aquifer, less thick
and deep, also extends into the two countries; its potential derives from
Quaternary deposits and current recharges from the humid areas in the west and
northwest; its water has a fairly high degree of salinization (3 to 9 g/1). Based
on pre-established criteria, the potential water resources of these large systems
were studied by UNESCO and later by the UNDP with the help of simulation models,



- 7 -
and the development production levels were estimated to ensure a balanced water
extraction which could guarantee sustainability of their use within and between
Algeria and Tunisia. Whereas these criteria could be adjusted with time and with
better knowledge of the individual sub-aquifers, the adherence to the overall
conclusions of the ERESS (Etude des Ressources en Eau du Sahara Septentrional)
studies and a continuous monitoring of the water use and behavior of the aquifer
are essential conditions for the best use of the resources common to Algeria and
Tunisia. Both countries subscribe generally to the conclusions of the ERESS
studies and have established an ad-hoc bilateral commission (the Commission
Technique Tuniso-Alg6rienne de 1'Hydraulique et de lEnvironnement, or CTHE)
for purposes, inter alia, of exchanging data on the common aquifers.
2.23        Institutional Capacitv. Algeria's development has been hampered by
the general lack of implementation capacity witnin its principal executing
agencies. They often suffer from a lack of coordination, and from a shortage
of trained staff and essential materials.   These problems have limited the
region's ability to carry out specific projects, and have had an impact on the
performance of agencies that support economic activities such as marketing,
input distribution and credit. The proposed Project would deal with this issue
through support of a comprehensive program providing training, technical
assistance, and equipment to those institutions involved in the agricultural
development of the region.
2.24        Environmental Issues.  The Sahara region is ecologically fragile,
the soil is short in organic matter, and the agricultural lands need to be
protected from sand intrusion, especially during the sandstorm season. Leaching
of irrigated lands into the groundwater table may also pose problems.  More
intensive use of fertilizer and pesticides to increase productivity can lead to
long-term hazards for the groundwater.   In addition, because of the non-
renewable nature of the water supply, the fact that the resource is shared by
other countries, and the potential for overpumping, the water resource must also
be exploited with considerable care. Because of this fragility, agricultural
practices must be monitored to protect the quantity of water available (to ensure
proper pumping practices), the quality of drainage and groundwater, and the
health of the workers, consumers and residents in the area. In addition, in the
area of the Project, the principal drain used by the oases is also used by the
few industries in the area and by the urban areas. It will be important to
establish adequate monitoring capacity for the quantity and quality of the
irrigation water and the quality of the water found in the main drainage canal,
as well as the quality of the soil in the agricultural areas.  The proposed
Project would ensure that environmental assessments are included in the
development plans; assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would set up a monitoring system to control water quality in the main drainage
collector by June 30, 1993.   In addition, the establishment of an overall
drainage system would improve the salinity and health conditions in the valley.
III. BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE
3.01        Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1974, and
nine projects have since been approved for a total of US$395 million (net of



cancellations). Performance under the first three projects which were financed
In the sector (Technical AsslstanceaRural Development Project -- Loan 1159-AL,
the Meat Industy Project -- LoaU 1739-AL, and the Ball Chezliff Irrigation Proiect
-. Lon 1802-AL) was mixed, reflecting institutional constraints in the sector.
Project Performance Audit Reports have been done on the first two and a Project
Completion Report on the Bas Cheliff Project. The main lessons learned from the
implementation of these projects are to proceed with caution in project design,
to ensure the full commitment of Government at each stage of preparation, to
complete as much as possible of the design process and bidding documents prior
to negotiations to avoid implementation delays, and to ensure that bidding
procedures are cost-effective.
3.02        On-going projects cover a range of activities designed to support
infrastructure and institutional development across a number of sub-sectors.
In the irrigation sub-sector, these include the Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan
2i09-AL), the Irrigation Engineering Proiect (Loan 2978-AL) and the Mitidja
Irrigation Project (Loan 3076-AL), designed to rehabilitate and extend existing
large-scale irrigation schemes in the northern part of the country, to support
the development of an investment program of small-scale irrigation and to prepare
a ten-year irrigation development program for small and medium scale irrigation
schemes. These irrigation projects are progressing satisfactorily, albeit with
some delays because of shortages of certain construction materials (concrete
pipes). These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
Project.
3.03        Other on-going projects include the Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 3002-AL), approved in December 1988 and declared effective only in March
1990 because of delays in finalizing co-financing arrangements; the project is
designed to strengthen the agricultural credit bank and to support the medium
and long-term lending program of the bank by financing on-farm agricultural and
agro-industrial equipment. The Desert Locust Control Project (Loan 3017-AL),
approved in January 1989, was designed as an emergency loan in the context of
the 1988 locust plague to support the control program and to reinforce the
permanent surveillance and warning systems to monitor the locust activity while
the required improvements were made. Locust activity was negligible in 1989,
was reduced even further in 1990, and forecasts indicate that the plague is over.
As a result, about 602 of the loan has been cancelled. Finally, the Research
and Extension Pro1ect (Loan 3216-AL), approved in June 1990, is designed to
strengthen research services and introduce pilot extension programs in five
wilayate in the North of the country.
IV. THE PROJECT ARA
A. Introductin
4.01        The proposed project area is the Oued R'hir valley, a broad low
relief depression situated some 400 km inland from the coast, which runs
approximately 150 kilometers in a south to north direction.   Currently some
15,300 ha of date palm plantations exist in the valley but they are threatened
by lack of water and salinity. In addition to this main crop, which accounts



for about 20 percent of the national date palm production, vegetables and fodder
crops are intercropped. In the past ten to twenty years, production has been
increasingly affected by problems of drainage and salinity, which now jeopardize
the future survival of the plantations. In the 1980s, an effort was made to
improve the natural drainage in the valley. A 150 km long main drainage canal
and the corresponding network of primary collectors were constructed, which has
already had a clear beneficial impact. However, a large part of the planted area
suffers from lack of water and the drainage network still needs to be expanded.
Plans have been prepared to correct the situation and improve the agriculture
development of the valley.
4.02        Irrigation in the Oued R'hir valley has been practiced for millennia
At first, natural springs were the only water source   but gradually the
construction of surface wells gave rise to a substantial expansion of the
irrigated areas. The first tube well was constructed in 1856 and their number
increased rapidly, replacing almost entirely all the other water extraction
methods. Since then, the artesian flow has gradually disappeared and pumping
has to be used to exploit the aquifers. 'Presently, artesian flow remains only
in a limited area in the North of the valley. In 1956, the identification of
a rich deep aquifer with good quality water (the Continental Intercalaire)
permitted the expansion and creation of new irrigated perimeters. The area has
internal drainage and all surface water is conveyed northward to Chott Merouane,
a large depression with an elevation of - 20 meters, which is a large brackish
seasonal evaporative basin. Local drainage is poorly developed and the area
has a series of natural depressions in which underground water rises to the
surface creating densely vegetated areas. Historically, where the water and soil
quality have been suitable, these areas have been developed for traditional oasis
agriculture by the use of shallow wells.   Outside the watered areas, the
landscape consists of an arid plain sparsely vegetated by low brush with limited
areas of low sand dunes. Wildlife habitat is provided by undeveloped seasonal
brackish water areas, especially a marsh at the south end of Chott Merouane and
a series of flooded depressions known as the 'zone des lacs", and on a permanent
basis by the oases themselves.
B. Physical Characteristics
4.03        The oases are located at elevations decreasing from +90 m at El Goug
in the South to -10 m at M'Ghaier/Ourir in the North. The Oued R'hir valley
has the same general configuration: gently sloping from South to North. A large
depression, the outlet of the Oued R'hir, is located in the extreme North (Chott
Merouane); it is below sea level (-20 m to -25 m).
Soils
4.04        Soils are alluvial-colluvial formed during and after the Quaternary;
they show superficial crusting due to aeolic sand deposits.   Their texture
(mostly sandy loam) generally provides a good water retention capacity and
permeability. Due to aeolian deposits of fine material in the surface layers,



- 10 -
tillage of the surface soil is required once every three years to improve
aeration and infiltration. Gypsum content in different forms is high throughout
the profile and there is therefore no danger of alkalinization. On the other
hand, salinity levels are high due to a rising water table as a result of
irrigation intensification and lack of adequate drainage in recent decades. A
hydromorphic layer or a gypsum-limestone crust may be noticed due to the high
water table. Salinity is of the sulphate-calcic type in the less saline soils
(< 6 mmhoms/cm) and of the chloro-sodic type in the more saline ones. Soils are
poor in organic matter (less than 0.5 percent) and have a high pH (7.5 to 8.5).
Climate
4.05        Climate is typically Saharan and can be characterized by:  (a) very
low and erratic precipitation with an annual average of about 58 mm; wide
temperature fluctuations (17°C daily average) with maxima in August; low relative
air humidity varying from 66 percent in winter to 38 percent in July/August.
Given the extremely low annual precipitation, agriculture is possible only with
irrigation. Annual potential evapo-transpiration is 1,900 mm; daily values vary
between 1.6 mm in Decembet and 8.7 mm in June.
C. Water Resourcesp'
4.06        Ground water resources come from two main aquifers:  the Complexe
Terminal (CT) and the deeper Continental Intercalaire (CI). According to the
ERESS study I the Oued R'hir valley is located between the zone of average
Rot-intial, on its central and southern parts, where water pumping could safely
reach 16.5 ma/s in year 2000; and the zone of low potential, on its northern
part, where water extraction flows could increase to 7.8 e3/s by the same year.
Based on the results of model simulations, the potential water resources in the
Oued R'hir would be 11.3 me/s from the CT and 3.6 nP/s from the CI.  These
estimates are valid, provided that pumping of water from the surrounding regions
(Ouargla and Souf) and in Tunisia also comply with the recommended criteria from
the ERESS study. These criteria are essentially: (a) to keep the artesianism
of the deep aquifer, particularly in its central zone, at least till the year
2010; (b) to limit the pumping head in the other zones of the CI and in the CT
to 60 m.; (c) to balance the exploitation of the aquifers by Tunisia and Algeria.
Tables 8 and 9 summarize the ground water balance in the Oued R'hir valley for
two typical scenarios: the Project scenario, i.e.,rehabilitation of 3,550 ha
and keeping the remaining plantations of the valley (11,240 ha) as they are, and
the full rehabilitation scenario, i.e., rehabilitation of 6,460 ha, keeping the
remaining 8,330 ha as they are, and expanding the irrigated area by 1,030 ha.
Both scenarios include provision for urban and agro-industrial water consumption.
They show that the overall water balance available in the valley is positive,
but the resources of the two aquifers should be carefully used. Since these
1/    Table 13, 1- Annex 1 and 3. Both the ERESS study and the Preparation
Report contain a detailed description of the water resources and
international implications.
2/    Table 13.2



. 11 -
balances indicate the water available for other developments, and in particular
the APFA program, the areas to be irrigated under this program should not exceed
about 6,000 ha, and they should be concentrated in the southern part of the
valley. The area of land distributed for private sector development in the
Sahara is, however, already too high (para. 2.18); in the Project area, about
9,000 ha have been subject to some type of development but only 6,000 ha are
cropped. A large part of this area is irrigated from surface wells (particularly
in the northern part of the valley) which does not yet affect the resources of
the CT and CI aquifers.   However,  these figures show the need to impose
restrictions to the expansion of the APFA program. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would develop the region based on plans financed
under the project (para. 5.18) and after the establishment of an adequate
monitoring system for the water extraction (para. 5.07). In the meantime, new
irrigation development would be limited to the land already distributed under
the APFA program, and new land distribution for irrigation would be controlled
to meet the recommendations of the ERESS study. Table 4.1 summarizes the water
resources situation.
Table 4.1. WATER RESOURCES
(m3/s)
Project Scenario       Full Rehab. Scenario
Daira         Potential          Remaining  Balance         Remaining  Balance
CT   CI  Total  Needs  Total    CT   CI   Needs  Total    CT  CI
Touggourt  5.5  1.6   7.1    4.0    3.1    3.1  0.0      4.4   2.7    2.7  0.0
Djamaa     2.9  1.6   4.5    3.9    0.6    0.3  0.3      4.1   0.4    0.1  0.3
W Ghaier   2.9  0.4   3.3    2.6    0.7    0.9 -0.2      2.6   0.7    0.9 -0.2
Total  11.3  3.6  14.9  10.5    4.4    4.3  0.1    11.1   3.8    3.7  0.1
Source: Table 13.1 and Appraisal Mission
D. !Zwlation
4.07        The Oued R'hir population is about 213,000, half of which is
concentrated in the Daira of Touggourt. The working population is estimated to
be about 80,000, of which 50 percent is in the agriculture sector and the rest
is in the civil service, commercial activities, and small industries, including
those related to the processing of dates.
E. Land Tenure and Crongina S!stems
Iand enure
4.08        The traditional oases (some 9,500 ha, out of a total of 15,000 ha)
used to have a complex pattern of private ownership as a result of the centuries-
old inheritance system, leading to multiple ownership and the widespread practice



- 12 -
of share cropping. After the agrarian reform, private ownership was maintained
but limited to 4 ha.   Ownership of most of the large-scale plantations,
established by foreign and local settlers from the second half of the 19th
century onwards, was transferred to cooperatives and subsequentlv to collective
farms (DAS) in the 1960s and 70s. A number of cooperatives had already been
established prior to independence. At present, fanmers in the oases have legal
life-long usufruct rights.   The right can be transferred through sale or
inheritance. An average farm size in the modern plantations is about 1 ha, with
a smaller size prevailing in the traditional oases. This size provides full
employment for a single farm family. There is little mutual assistance between
families. In addition, there is still some share cropping, particularly when
the number of palm trees owned by an individual is too small to make a living.
The number of farmers in the different categories of association in the Project
area and the size of their farms are given in Table 10.
Date Palm Plantations
4.09        The Oued R'hir valley comprises 50 oases with about 2.5 million date
palm  trees  (33 percent  of  the country's  plantations).    One  particular
characteristic of the Oued R'hir valley is the excellent quality of the dates.
About 80 percent of the plantations produce the Deglet Nour variety which is
highly appreciated abroad as well as in Algeria (high demand in the local market
is one reason for the decline in exports); 17 percent are of the Ghars and Degla
Beida varieties, which are demanded locally and in West Africa. The rest are
the so-called common varieties and consumed locally or used as fodder for
livestock. The Deglet Nour variety prevails in the Oued R'hir valley because
the abundant shallow water resources enabled expansion of commercial date
production for export by European foreign settlers in the late 19th and first
half of the 20th century.
4.10        Date palm oases have existed in the area since historical times,
using artesian water and animal powered shallow wells. In the late 19th century,
foreign and local settlers started to expand date cultivation through
establishment of regularly aligned rows of palm trees and irrigation and drainage
networks. Some 60 percent of 1.3 million date palms in full production are in
these modern plantations. Rejuvenation is done gradually but not systematically
in the traditional oases. About 10 percent of the modern plantations have passed
the age of maximum productivity (40 to 60 years). Thus far, Government attempts
to promote rejuvenation in the modern plantations have failed, partially due to
its high cost. Prices of off-shoots of Deglet Nour variety are particularly high
because of their limited availability, due in turn to the ban on transport of
off-shots from the Bayoud infested areas in the West.
4.11        Plantations show two different layouts:  the traditional pattern
(about 60 percent of the total area), which has a density of 150 trees per
hectare; trees are not aligned which makes it difficult to mechanize agricultural
operations; and the modern pattern, which is characterized by aligned plantations
and is less dense (120 trees per hectare).
4.12        Yields vary from 15 to 30 kg per tree in old plantations with water
shortage, high salinity and poor drainage, to 60 to 80 kg per tree in plantations



- 13 -
with adequate water supply, good drainage, and with palm trees of optimal age
for fruit bearing. In favorable years, particularly when climatic conditions
are good for pollination, production can reach 100 kg per tree. Insects and
diseases can cause production losses of up to 20 percent.   Systematic and
generalized spraying against the main pests and diseases are carried out by
government agencies, but it is often inadequate as the motorized sprayers have
difficulty reaching the interior of the plots. Aerial spraying is being tested
and farmers who own mobile, hand operated equipment, often carry out supplemental
treatment. High soil and water salinity also affect the quality of the dates;
this may be an additional factor leading to the decline of exports in the last
20 years.
4.13        Generally,  agricultural operations are not mechanized.   Water
control, cleaning drains and canals, and grading dates at harvest account for
about 87 percent of the total labor requirements; operations performed on the
trees need specialized personnel for climbing, who are becoming scarce.
Therefore, production costs are high; farmers try to reduce them but this affects
the yields and the quality of the dates. Mechanization is possible only on large
and well-aligned plantations. Mechanization tests have been carried out without
success because open drains hamper the movement of the equipment and because of
its high cost. However, mechanization using small equipment would be possible
for operations such as soil preparation, transportation of farm inputs, etc.
Inter-cropnint and Livestock
4.14        Inter-cropping is not developed in the Oued R'hir valley. Only about
10 to 15 percent of the area between palm trees is cropped, and the limited
intercropped areas are due mainly to lack of water, poor drainage, salinity,
and lack of rehabilitation. Barley and alfalfa are the most prevalent forage
crops. Barley is seeded in the fall (broadcast), irrigated at the same time as
the palm trees, and harvested between February and April. Yields are low (10 to
16 ton/ha).   By contrast, alfalfa is better cared for and the soil is well
prepared and fertilized; good farmers may obtain a total production per year of
40 to 50 ton/ha in 12 cuts. Forage is consumed on the farm or sold in the local
markets. In winter, onions, carrots, turnips and garlic, and in summer tomatoes,
pepper and water melon are the most commonly grown vegetables; they are sold in
the local market as well as used for home consumption. Fruit trees are rare.
4.15        Livestok activities are limited.  Sheep and goats are raised in the
oases (usually kept inside the farm compounds) and in courtyards in the towns.
Some commercial poultry production has developed in the cool season on the ex-
DAS farms and on the new APFA farms.
F. Agriculture Sungort SerixLesi,
4.16        The structure of the agricultural services at the regional level is
centralized around the governorate (Wilaya). At present, each wilaya throughout
the country has one division (DDAHA) that covers both agriculture and hydraulic
1/    Table 13.1, Annex 3



- 14 -
services (as well as forestry). Reorganization is underway which will make both
agricultural extension and forestry activities separate from the DDAHA so as to
coordinate them at a national level. Both agriculture and hydraulic services
are represented at the district (Daira) and communal levels. This organization
and the changes underway do not take into account the special characteristics
of the Sahara region (isolation, large areas, climatic and agricultural
conditions related to oases development). These particularities were dealt with
to some extent through the creation of special Saharan departments (CDARS,
ANRH-DRS).
Tho "Commissariat au DNvelogpement de l'A4riculture des R4aions Sahariennes"
SCAR)
4.17        The CDARS was created in 1986 in the Ministry of Agriculture to plan
and implement the agricultural development of the Sahara region. Its objective
was to carry out studies for the definition of the regioca' characteristics and
issues, propose plans and programs for encouraging the intensification of
agriculture in those regions, coordinate the implementation of those plans, and
propose particular legislation which might be required to expedite and realize
the implementation. Although not defined in legal texts, the CDARS is expected
to cover all nine wilayate of the Sahara. Having such a large mandate, the CDARS
activities still remain rather modest four years after its creation and are
essentially focussing on monitoring the implementation of the APFA program and
on assisting some wilayate in preparing their plans. In part, this situation
results from frequent changes in its leadership, lack of staff, and questions
about authority over decision-making between the CDARS, which takes instructions
directly from the Ministry of Agriculture, and the regional decision makers at
the wilaya level.
The "Agence Natioale des Ressources Hvdrauligues" (kNEM)
4.18        Under the Ministry of Equipment, the well established ANRH is in
charge of the inventory of the national water and soil resources.  It keeps
records and monitors the use of those resources. It is also responsible for
maintaining and protecting their quality and quantity. The "Directign R4gionale
Au Ml' (DRS) is the regional department of the ANRH in the Sahara. The DRS was
created in 1989 and has already some ten engineers and technicians.   Its
headquarters are at Ouargla and one of its eight sectors will cover the Oued
R'hir.
The Office d'Am4nagement et de Mise en Vsleur du Primr tre de Oued R'hir (96MVOR)
4.19        Created on January 13, 1983, it started its activities only at the
end of 1984. The OAMVOR mandate is to prepare the development plan for the Oued
R'hir oases, to carry out the necessary studies for the implementation of this
plan, to prepare and execute a strategy and a program for extension services in
the Oued R'hir, and to assure the maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
networks. It is also responsible for the agricultural and land tenure reform
in the area.



-15 -
4.20        This agency depends administratively on the Wali (Governor) of El
Oued, and it is managed by a board of control and a director general. Its staff
was to reach 300 people (including 9 engineers and 16 technicians) at full
development; however, seven years after its creation, its technical department
has still only 15 staff members, which is clearly insufficient to fulfill its
assigned tasks.
4.21        Since its inception, the OAMVOR has had a tendency to concentrate
its activities almost exclusively on executing minor works, ignoring its role
of planner and regional developer.   It has essentially been acting as a
contractor for tasks such as tree planting and up-rooting, drilling of wells,
construction of canals and drains.   It has been assisted by consultants in
preparing studies, and it has not performed any drainage network maintenance.
OAMVOR will be replaced by the OPIOR (para. 5.12) and its staff and assets
transferred to this new organization.
4.22        Responsibility for agricultural research in the Project area is
shared between the Institut Technicue de D4velonpement do 1 'A&ronomie des Rduion
Sahariennes (ITDAS), the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomiaue Appliqu4e
(IfiM), and the Institut National de Protection des VegAtaux (INPV). Research
tasks in the field of vegetables, animal production, fruit crops and farm
mechanization have been taken over by ITDAS from the concerned specialized
national institutes.  One of the INRAA field experimental stations in Oued R'Hir
at El Arfiane was transferred to ITDAS. This station requires rehabilitation
and has a world-famous collection of male and female date palm varieties
established in the 1930s.   The other station near Touggourt  (Sidi Mahdi)
continues to operate under INRAA and is carrying out experiments on dates (among
other crops). It uses water from the CI aquifer and has good natural drainage.
Therefore, it is not representative of most soil and water conditions in the
valley. Research on protected and open air vegetables is carried out by ITDAS
near Ouargla.
kgnaggonTrnLins
4.23        ITDAS, INPV, the Agricultural College at Ouargla, as well as the
extension staff of the DADs (Delegue de l'Agriculture a la Daira) all have some
responsibility for transmitting technical information to farmers. The DADs are
represented at the village level by the ACVs (Agent Communal de Vulgarisation).
These services at village and Daira levels have taken staff from the former state
farms (DAS). Usually, one of the 2 to 3 ACVs at village level is a university
graduate and the others are agricultural technicians. They have an office at
the local municipality ("commune") but they are lacking office and demonstration
equipment and means of transport. They are mostly insufficiently supervised and
do not have a systematic work plan, but often demonstrate sound initiative such
as the organization of local agricultural fairs or exhibits. Most of their time
is spent on the new APFA farms. There are two training centers (CFVA) in the
Project area, one for Ouargla and one for El Oued Wilaya. These centers provide
short and medium term training courses and demonstration days for farmers,
tractor drivers, as well as technicians. Trainers of these agencies receive



- 16 -
pedagogical assistance from the Institut de Technologie de l'Agriculture
Saharienne (ITAS) at Ouargla.
a8 dcttural-redit
4.24        Formal agricultural credit is available to farmers for both short
term needs and medium and longer-term investments through the Banque de
l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural (BADR). BADR maintains regional offices
at the wilaya level and a large number of branch offices throughout the country.
In the Project area, BADR has three bratich offices in close approximation to the
oases: at Touggourt, Djamaa, and M'Ghaier. Since 1989, BADR has become an
autonomous bank, no longer dependent on Treasury funds and Ministry of
Agriculture directives for channeling funds primarily to the state farming
sector. BADR is making an effort to reach a larger percentage of traditional
private farmers than it did in the past, but has been recently hampered by a
shortage of long-term funds and by a general scarcity of farm equipment for
investment. The Agricultural Credit Project (loan 3009-AL) addresses both of
these issues. In the Project area, BADR serves between 10 and 25X of the farming
population with credit facilities (depending on the daira).
Input §u2nlv and Distribution
4.25        Input supply has undergone a series of changes in the last ten years,
and is continuing to evolve. Prior to the early 1980s, distribution of inputs
vas controlled by state monopolies with their network of cooperatives, which were
essentially the local representative of the governmental distributor.
Distribution of inputs was focussed almost exclusively on the socialist farms.
In the early 1980s, a number of reforms were implemented, streamlining the
distribution system and ensuring that traditional private farmers received a
larger share of inputs, but retaining the monopoly/"cooperative" distribution
system. In 1989, Government passed a law turning the existing cooperatives,
which were akin to Government parastatals, into "true" cooperatives to be owned
and operated by the farmers. In part, most cooperatives continue to function
much as before, and it remains to be seen how they will function as autonomous
farmer-owned entities. Also, monopolies are no longer legal, private traders
can, and have begun to distribute inputs. For the time being, farm equipment
is still distributed through a network of state agencies that belong to the
wilaya government. In the recent past, at least since 1986 when imports were
sharply curtailed, there have been general shortages of fertilizer and pesticides
and equipment throughout the country.  In the Project area, in the last two
years, equipment for- on-farm investment, particularly tractors, has been most
notably in extremely short supply. The Project would address this problem (para.
5.17).
Farmers' OrEanizations
4.26        Water management and operation of water distribution systems and
drainage networks at the farm level are the direct responsibility of the farmers,
grouped into formal or informal associations. Procedures exist under Algerian
law (Decree No. 72.152 of 7/27/72) for the formal creation of farmers'
associations. Collective distribution of irrigation water and participation in



- 17 -
the charges seem to have become an accepted part of the culture, and the system
works rather well. However, ownership of tube-wells is sometimes a constraint
to balanced water use. Since no requirements exist to restrict pumping, apart
from the physical capacity of the well and of the pump, the result is thst some
farm groups may have more than their water needs, whereas others will have
shortage.   Problems occur also wh;^i repairs to pumping equipment become
necessary, because farmers often have difficulties finding spare parts or
mechanics on a timely basis. This means that many times replacement parts are
not adequate, and inappropriate pumping may shorten the well life or even destroy
it. Joint use of farm machinery is found primarily in the ex-DAS farms; usually
one of the members is charged with operation and maintenance of the machine while
others contribute to the cost on the basis of a pre-determined fee per hour.
Suulv of  Goods and Execution of Works
4.27        Suppliers and contractors have, until now, not operated in a
competitive environment; they have been used to the centrally planned economy
which prevailed until recently. The current phase of liberalization opens the
possibility for the private sector to compete, which has been well received by
the private sector. In particular, civil works costs have already started to
decline noticeably. For well drilling, two contractors (both state enterprises)
have controlled the market: HYDRO-FORAGES and ONAFOR for the very deep wells
required to reach the CI aquifer.   Small private enterprises are, however,
playing an increasing role in executing wells (to about 300 m deep) for farmers'
groups. Concrete pipes are available from Algerian factories, but regularity
of supply has not been satisfactory. The situation is worse for the supply of
pumping and electrical equipment.  The sharp curtailment of imports, which
particularly affected submerged pumps, and very limited supply provided by the
local manufacturer at Berrouaghia, raises serious concerns regarding the
satisfaction of the Project needs in this field. The proposed use of ICB in the
Project procurement would contribute to solving the possible shortages of the
local suppliers and would also improve the competitiveness of the local
contractors.
0. Infrastructure
General Infrastructure 
4.28        The general communications facilities in the Oued R'hir valley itself
and between the valley and the rest of the country are good. Asphalt roads
connect Biskra in the North to El Oued in the East and Ouargla in the South.
Touggourt is the southern terminal of a line of the national railway running
between Algiers, Constantine, Biskra and Touggourt. Touggourt, Biskra, Ouargla
and El Oued are provided with daily commercial flights to Algiers. Every oasis
is served with permanent and fairly well maintained roads.
4.29        In the Project area, there are 2 hospitals, 2 health clinics, and
11 other smaller medical facilities. Touggourt is by far the best served Daira.
However, since these facilities are located in the main townships, patients still
sometimes have to travel long distances to reach them. There are 60 primary
schools, 12 junior high schools and 4 senior and technical high schools.



# 18 -
4.30        The power distribution network is satisfactory and most of the
communes are provided with electricity. Under these conditions, branching of
pumping equipment to the existing grid is simple. A large number of villages
are provided with a water supply system, and towns which serve as the
administrative headquarters of the dairas, have domestic water distribution
systems. To ensure good quality, water is obtained from the CI. Domestic waste
water is disposed either into agricultural drains or sewage pits. Touggourt is
constructing a sewage treatment plant; facilities are planned for other towns
and villages. Presently, all waste water is conveyed to the main drain of the
valley and mixed with the drainage water from the oases. The diluted waste water
receives an undetermined level of treatment in the drain and then is discharged
into the Chott Merouane.
IrrigAt in In}frastructureix
4.31        Irrigation water is essentially obtained from the CT, and only a
small volume comes from the CI. Available studies,>/ indicate that the number
of wells pumping from the CT was 850 until recently; however, half of them should
be closed, because of the bad conditions of their casings, which cause mixing
of relatively good water from the CT with the more saline water of the upper
aquifers. It is estimated that only 370 of these wells can be rehabilitated.
Currently, all operational wells in the valley tap about 7.5 e8/s from the CT and
1 mP/s from the CI. In the Oued R'hir area, there are nine wells drilled in the
CI with depths exceeding 1,600 m and yielding a total of about 1 ne/s of artesian
water. Two of them are partially used for domestic water supply. Government
has already established a program to close about 500 wells in bad condition in
the Oued R'hir valley. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would implement and accelerate this program which should be completed before the
end of the Project implementation period (December 31, 1996).
4.32        Water is conveyed from the well to the farm by three different
systems which can be present simultaneously: earth canals, buried pipes and
concrete flumes.   Generally, maintenance is poor and networks are in bad
condition, leading to water losses estimated on average at 30 percent.
Irrigation is by the border strip method. Strip spacing varies according to the
layout of the drains whether or not inter-cropping is practiced. On-farm water
losses may reach 50 percent, meaning an overall irrigation sioiency of no more
than 30 to 40 percent.  From the well, the water is distri'V.a;.ec by rotation, with
intervals of 7, 14, or 21 days. In certain cases, the sanr. farm may get water
from more than one well. Wells from the CT are directly operated by farmers
without any intervention on the part of the Administration; they share pumping
costs on a pro rata basis to their water allocation and area. The water from
the Cl is artesian and there are no operating costs involved in pumping.
IJ    Table 13.1, Annex 1
Z/   TESCO-Bureau d'Etudes de Constructions Hydrauliques Viziter-Budapest;
(1984-89)



- 19 -
4.33        The main drainage collector of the valley is the Oued R'hir bed
itself which has been improved and reshaped in recent years. It has a total
length of about 135 km, collects the water from the primary drainage network
and sends it into a large depression (Chott Merouane). This primary network is
about 293 km long, of which about 193 km have already been reshaped. It is
formed by open drains with an average depth of 1.7 m. At the farm level and
within the palm tree plantations, drainage is assured by a network of open
ditches with depths ranging between . 5 m and 1. 0 m, and placed 20 to 100 m apart.
This system is badly maintained, due to shortage of labor and funds.
V.  =  PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01        The development of the Sahara and of irrigation are currently
important objectives for the Government. In both of these areas, it is important
to introduce and ensure environmentally and economically sound approaches to the
development. Particularly in the Sahara, where the ecology is fragile and the
exploitation of the resources must be handled with care, it is critical to the
long-term viability of the area that the development be carefully planned,
carried out and monitored. Because of the Bank's experience in other neighboring
countries with similar development issues in a virtually identical environment,
the Bank has a role to play in ensuring the emphasis on institution building,
on long-term planning for development in the area, and on monitoring the impact
of development on the quality and quantity of water and on the quality of soil.
B. Concept and Obiectives
Project Concept
5.02        The agricultural development of the Sahara region has not yet been
subject to any comprehensive planning. The oases which have been established
for many years and those which have been created during the last few decades
suffer from gradual degradation and decreasing production due to lack of
maintenance, shortage of labor, and presence of salt in the soils. The APFA
program (para. 2.17) aims to attract human settlement in the area, but it was
conceived and has been implemented without a framework comprising the best use
of the available water resources, the establishment of an appropriate
infrastructure, and the assessment of its environmental impact. Therefore, the
first and most urgent step to improve the situation is to draw up a Master Plan
for the Development of the Sahara Region and to establish specific development
plans for the most important wilayate. In addition, the institutions dealing
with the planning, implementation and monitoring of agricultural development
(including water resources) are not sufficiently staffed and equipped to fulfill
their mandate and should be strengthened. Therefore, the Project proposes as
its primary objectives the establishment of the framework and of the criteria
(technical, economical, environmental) for future development of the Sahara and
the strengthening of the appropriate institutions.



- 20 -
5.03        At this stage, it would be risky to embark on a large investment
project aiming at the full rehabilitation of all the existing plantations in
the valley or expansion of oases. The appropriate approach is to prepare the
planning instruments, strengehen institutions, test organizations and methods
in a first phase rehabilitation operation, and prepare the projects for a much
larger second phase based on more solid ground. The project concept responds
to this desideratum. In this first phase, investments would be made on oases
which could be supplied within the available water resources,V and for which
there are already execution plans; the oases selected would need to show water
deficiency resulting in increasing degradation of plantations and have acceptable
economic returns.
Protect Obletives
5.04        The proposed Project would:
(a)   support an environmentally sound development program for the Northern
Sahara;
(b)   assist Government in the definition of a strategy for agricultural
development within the constraints determined by that program;
(c)   strengthen institutions dealing with management, monitoring, and
control of water resources; and
(d)   test the technical,  organizational and managerial aspects of
rehabilitated irrigation in a first phase of renovation of oases.
C. Comoonet
5.05        To achieve its overall objectives, the Project would implement over
a period of five years the following operations:
(a)   Institutonal flgmn=:
Strengthening institutions dealing with planning, implementing, and
monitoring the agricultural development in the region, including
the establishment of monitoring systems for water use and for water
and soil quality; development of applied research, training and
extension; creation of an agency for operation and maintenance of
the common main drainage infrastructure; and development of a Project
Coordination Unit to coordinate Project execution;
(b)   Rebabilitation of Oases:
Drilling of new and replacement wells, provision of pumping equipment
and construction of irrigation and drainage networks over an area
of about 3,550 ha;
1/    Table 13.1, Annex 1



- 21
(c) On-Am  DeveODmen:
Improvement of agriculture production through provision of farm
implements to develop mechanization of agricultural practices;
(d)  fitudies. Technical Assistance and Traitnig:
Preparation of development plans, feasibility studies, and
environmental assessments for future investments in the sector,
provision of technical assistance and training of staff.
D. Detailed Featgres
InstiLtutionAl DeveLgpmn
5.06        Strengthenint of the CDARS.  The Project would assist the CDARS
(para. 4.17) in improving its performance as planner for the agricultural
development of the Saharan regions in general and, in the context of the Project,
in supervising the preparation of the Kaster Plan, and of the Specific
Development Programs mentioned in para. 5.18. It would also assist the CDARS
in ensuring the monitoring of the soil salinity levels in the Project area. The
Project would finance vehicles (9), office and laboratory equipment,/ training
of staff (para. 5.20). and technical assistance (para. 5.19).   A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) would also be created in the CDARS (para. 5.11) to
coordinate and monitor the Project implementation.
5.07        StrUSSthenIMn  of the AMRlR-DU.  Under the Project, the regional
department of the ANRH (para. 4.18) would be provided with equipment,y including
vehicles (5), measuring devices, computers, office and satellite imagery and
interpretation equipment, which is required to set up a system for monitoring
ground water resources, its use and potential, and water quality in the project
area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the ANRH would implement
this monitoring system before December 31, 1993 and would report its findings
annually. This would be complemented with technical assistance (para. 5.19) and
training (para. 5.20).
S2mnort to Extension. Training. and Research Activities
5.08        Field extension work carried out by a total of 25 ACVs (para. 4.23)
through existing formal and informal farmers' groups will be assisted by the
Project. Both the DDAHs and the DADs (para. 4.16) will be strengthened to enable
them to carry out their task of support, supervision and monitoring of extension
at the ACV level. The two training centers (CFVA) (para. 4.23) in the Project
area would also be strengthened. The Project would finance the recruitment of
1/   Table 12.1, Annex 3
2/   Table 200, Annex 1
]/   Table 200, Annex 1



- 22 -
additional personnel (15 extension agents) and equipment (27 vehicles, 15
motorcycles, 4 demonstration tractors and equipment).z/
5.09        The CFVA trainers (para. 5.20) would receive pedagogical support from
ITAS (para. 4.23) at Ouargla. ITAS will be assisted to fulfill this role through
the provision of vehicles (2), and miscellaneous monitoring and audio-visual
equipment.,
5.10        The Project includes the improvement of the applied research programs
of the ITDAS (para. 4.22), in particular related to the Qued R'hir region. The
Project would finance the purchase of vehicles, scientific equipment, farm
machinery and computers.A/ It would also provide technical assistance (para.
5.19) and staff training (para. 5.20); a bank of pollen to improve the production
of high quality dates would also be created.
5.11        Creation of the PCU.  A Project Coordination Unit would be created
in the CDARS, under the direct responsibility of its Commissioner, to coordinate
and monitor the project implementation. It would be headed by an experienced
manager, assisted by one administrator, one accountant, and other support staff
as required. The PCU would also be provided with equipment, including vehicles
(2), and office equipment.w The creation of a Project monitoring structure was
a condition of negotiations and has been complied with. Terms of reference for
the PCU were agreed upon during negotiations.
5.12        Restructurinx    of O   .   The OANVOR (para. 4.19 - 4.21) has
administrative limitations to extend its activities to the entire Oued R'hir
valley, and it is not provided with staff and equipment to fulfill the task of
assuring the operation and maintenance of the common drainage infrastructure.
Therefore, the Project would assist in the creation of an agency (OPIOR) for the
operation and maintenance of the main drainage infrastructure, the management
of the safety stock, and the provision of repair and maintenance services to
farmers. This agency would replace the OAMVOR and receive from it all staff and
assets. Under the Project, OPIOR would be provided with staff, vehicles (13),
construction and office equipment.  The creation of this Unit with a mandate
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would provide funds to operate and
maintain the common drainage collectors, prior to sufficient cost recovery from
users to finance its operations (para. 7.15).   Agreement on the terms of
reference of this agency was obtained at negotiations.
Rehabilitation of OasesF
5.13       DPee  Wells.  About 27 deep wells would be drilled in the CT and 7
in the CI to meet the water needs of the date palm tree plantations to be
improved under the Project. The average depth of such wells would be about 200
m in the CT and 1,900 m in the CI. The Project also provides for a reserve fund
1/. 2/ & i/ : Table 200 - Annex 1
Table 201  - Annex 1
i/          : Table 13.1 - Annex 1



- 23 -
to permit the drilling of 4 wells in the CT and one in the CI, in case of an
unexpected failure of some existing wells.
5.14        Pum&Uinu EquigMent.  The wells would be equipped with the necessary
submerged electrical pumps and all the complementary electrical equipment
(transformers,  switch boards,  power lines).   Shelters  for the electrical
equipment would also be constructed. Cooling towers would be installed for the
water from the CI. A safety stock of spare parts, in an amount equivalent to
20 percent of the investment in this equipment, would be established.
5.15        Irrigation Infrastructure.  Within the 3,550 ha of rehabilitation,
the Project would finance: (a) about 90 small elevated tanks to provide working
pressure and automatic regulation for the water pumped from the CT; (b) about
7 cooling towers for the water tapped from the CI; (c) closed loop pipe
distribution systems for each tank, provided with valves and controlling devices
to distribute the irrigation water to the farms; areas commanded by CT wells will
generally have their water supply mixed with a CI well; however, depending on
the location of the wells and irrigated areas, the Cl wells may also have their
own loop system.
5.16       Drainage and Road Infrastructure.  The construction and/or reshaping
of the drainage network would involve secondary, collector, and field drains,
including aqueducts and other minor works; the drains will be designed to
maintain a minimum depth to the ground water below the irrigated fields of
1.20 m. Internal access and service tracks will be resurfaced.
On fArm Developmenti/
5.17        Tractors of 45 to 65 CV (60), mini-tractors of 18 to 30 CV (250)
with the corresponding implements and accessories, backpack sprayers and dusters
(4,000), and plastic packing crates (300,000), would be financed under the
Project. This corresponds to estimates of the farmers' requirements to develop
mechanization in agricultural practices in the Project area. They would be made
available to farmers either on credit or cash depending on the farmers' financial
possibilities.   The credit would be provided under the current conditions
practiced by BADR.
Studies. Technical Assistance. and Training
5.18        Studies.a/  The Project would finance the following studies:  (a)
Plan for the Development of the Sahara Regions, including a Master Plau, which
would propose the general strategy for the agricultural development of the
region, and Specific Development Plans for the five wilayate of Ouargla, Adrar,
El Oued, Ghardaia, and Biskra.   All the northern part of the Sahara would
therefore be covered with suitable planning instruments; (b) Complementary
Studies for the Development of the Oued R'hir, including the next rehabilitation
1/    Table 13.1, Annex 2
2/    Table 13.1, Annex 8 and Annex 6



- 24 -
phase, the study of the use of drainage water for irrigation, and the definition
of the works required for the connection of the areas being developed under the
APFA program to the main drainage system. Eventually, these studies would become
the bases for a follow up project in Oued R'hir.
5.19        Technical Assistance. , In the context of institutional development,
the Project would include technical assistance to the CDARS, to the ITDAS, and
to ANRH-DRS. This would take the form of long and short-term consultant services
to help these organizations to improve their own performance in general, and to
implement the Project in particular. The CDARS would be assisted in general
management, project coordination, and monitoring (12 MM), planning (6 Hff),
project appraisal (3 NM), and organization of extension, research, and training
(6 M1); the ITDAS would also be assisted in general management (12 M0), and
specialized research subject-matters related to date palm tree plantations
improvement. The ANRH-DRS program would include a total of 34 MM for activities
related to the setting up, maintenance and operation of a system to monitor the
use of ground water resources.
5.20        Traln&ng.'   Training would aim at providing the staff of the
agencies supporting the Project (CDARS, ITDAS, ANRH-DRS) and of the regional
extension services departments with the skills required to implement the Project
activities. ACV and DAD staff would receive training in extension organization,
methodology and in technical subjects at the two CFVA in the Project area which
would be strengthened (para. 5.09). The program would include scholarships and
study tours abroad and in Algeria, workshops and seminars.ii The Project would
also finance the organization of, and conduct at least one regional international
meeting, to discuss matters of common interest in the use of the ground water
resources.
E. Status of Desiqn
5.21        The execution plans and the bidding documents for rehabilitation
works of the Oued R'hir (6,500 ha), which include the works foreseen in the
Project, were prepared by consultants between 1983 and 1989. For the 8 sectors
covered by the Project (Table 7), these documents need to be updated to include
the modifications resulting from the recent construction of new wells. They
should also be reviewed to reflect the Appraisal Mission recommendations
regarding water duties and improvements in design and construction.   These
modifications will reduce quantities but the reductions are expected to be within
the allowance usually provided for variation in quantities during execution of
works. Changes in the plans would be carried out shortly and funded under the
Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2978-AL). A study assessing the impact of
the proposed updating and modifications on Project cost has been prepared.
1/   Table 13.1 Annex 3 and Annex 6
2/   Table 13.1, Annex 3 and Annex 6
.]./  Annex 5



- 25 -
5.22        The purchase of goods (equipment, vehicles) should be preceded by
the preparation of the technical specifications by the particular agency involved
(ITDAS, AHRH, CDARS), and coordinated by the PCU for bid invitation.   The
corresponding administrative clauses for ICB would be similar to those already
approved in other Bank financed projects in Algeria. The CDRA is currently
collecting data and organizing the procurement documents.
5.23        The creation of the OPIOR is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Equipment and constitutes a condition of negotiations (para. 5.12).
F. Costs
5.24        Over the five year implementation period (1992-1996), the total cost
of the project is estimated at US$94.37 million (DA 2,264 million) with a foreign
exchange component of US$57.31 million (DA 1,366 million) or 60.7 percent of the
total cost.  The cost estimate includes taxes and duties, totalling US$17.5
million (DA 419 million) or 18.5 percent of the total cost. Project costs are
detailed in Annex 1 and summarized in Table 5.1 below.  Table 5.3 shows the
allocation of costs by agency with the break-down in foreign exchange and local
currency.



- 26 -
Table -3 0: 3oAT OM SMM
(DA M.)                    0Js aM.)               s Total
Local Foreign   Total     Local foreign   Total   * For.Exc. Base Costs
A. ISTUTiOI. DEVELOH T
Vehicles                  12.41   11.83   24.24      0.75    0.71    1.46       486.      1.62
Coatruotlen Equipment     5.12   29.02   34.15        .31    1.75    2.0B       85.00     2.70
Office Equipment          5.14   17.98   23.12       0.31    1.08    1.39       77.79     1.83
Recurrent Costs           54.86   13.64   68.52      2.44    1.69    4.13       40.92     5.41
sub-total              77.58   72.47  150.03      3.81    5.23    9.04       5.85    11.6
5. REOAMILITATION OF OASES
Constructions             6.38    6.36   12.71       0.39    0.38    0.77       50.00     1.00
Irrigation Works         188.58  188.58  377.12     11.36   11.36   22.72       50.00    29.79
Drainse Worka            110.02  110.02  220.05      6.63    6.63   13.26       50.00    17.38
Deep Wells               08.84  206.50  275.32       4.15   12.44   16.58       75.00    21.74
Irrigation Equpupent      7.98   18.58   26.54       0.46    1.12    1.60       70.00    2.10
kecuzrent Costs           3.97   33.21   37.18       1.10    1.13    2.23       50.67     2.92
Sub-total              385.69  583.23  948.92     24.10   33.06   57.16       57.84    74.94
C. TECH.ASS8T/TRAIN/sTUDIM
Technical Aasistance      1.21   10.85   12.06       0.07    0.65    0.73       90.00     0.95
Training                  1.31    5.07    6.38       0.08    0.31    0.38       79.50     0.50
Studies                   8.80   13.21   22.01       0.53    0.80    1.33       60.00     1.74
Sub-total               11.32   29.13   40.45      0.68    1.56    2.44       63.90     3.20
D. ON-FAR DEVELO8MNST          19.00  107.65  126.65      1.14    6.48    7.63       85.00    10.00
Total BASE LINE COSTS         493.57  772.48 1268.05     29.73   46.53   76.27       61.06   100.00
Physioal Contingencies   70.76  104.70  175.46       4.28    6.31   10.57       59.67    13.86
Price Contingencies      333.70  488.77  822.46      3.06    4.47    7.53       59.31     9.87
Total PROJECT CTS             698.03 1365.95 2263.98     37.08   57.31   94.37       60.73   123.73
Soutce: World Bank; Appraisal Mission.
5.25             Base costs are expressed in March 1991 prices.  Unit prices for works
and supplies of goods were derived from recent bidding and appraisal estimates.
Cost of special equipment (research, laboratory, etc.) were estimated based on their
CIF price to which were added the corresponding custom and other taxes and duties,
and transportation costs to the project area. Unit costs reflect the particular
constraints still existing in Algeria, such as, chronic shortages of supplies,
insufficient stocks, bureaucratic bottlenecks, and difficulty to obtain foreign
exchange, which, together with the severe working conditions of the region, makes
those costs much higher (two to three times) than those which are currently practiced
in neighboring Tunisia for similar works. Physical contingencies have been allowed
at the rate of 20 percent for irrigation works, 15 percent for wells and drainage
works, and 10 percent for equipment. No physical contingency allowance was provided
for  operating  costs,   training,   studies,   and  technical  assistance.                    Price
contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the following annual percentage
rates, applied to local and foreign costs, including physical contingencies:



- 27 -
alab.5.22: PRICE CONTINGENCY RATES
(Percent)
1990       1991        1992        1993        1994         1996
Local       14.7        20.0        24.0         22.0        8.0         7.0
Foreign     3.6         3.6         3.6           3.6        3.6         3.6
Source:     World Bank (Operational Directive for foreign contingencies,
Country Operations for local)
G. ILnaaLUn
et26        A Bank loan of US$57 million to the Government of Algeria is
proposed to finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange component of the
Project, including the foreign exchange part of incremental recurrent costs
and of the on-farm development components.J' The balance of funds required
would be financed by the Government and Project beneficiaries. The Bank loan
would cover 60 percent of Project costs (74.1 percent of Project costs net of
taxes). The Project costs would be shared in the amounts and proportions
indicated in Table 5.3.
Tablg 5.3: FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foreign      Total     X of Not
------(US$ N equivalent)------   Project Cost
World Bank                                 57.0         57.0       74.1
Beneficiaries                  2.6            -         2.6         3.4
Government                    17.0          0.3         17.3       22.5
Net Project Costs          19.6         57.3        76.9      100.0
Taxes and Duties           17.5            -        17.5       22.8
Total Project Costs        37.1         57.3        94.4      122.8
Source: World Bank Appraisal Mission
1/   We understand that the European Investment Bank (EIB) has signed with
the Government a loan agreement expected to assist in financing
Government's contribution.



- 28 -
5.27        The proposed Bank loan (US$57.0 million) would be for 17 years,
including 5 years of grace. The Government would earmark the loan proceeds to
CDARS, ITDAS, DDAHA, ANRH, OPIOR, and ITAS through their annual budgets to
finance proposed Project activities. Beneficiaries would share the Project
cost (US$2.6 million) through their payment for 06M of the pumping equipment,
irrigation and drainage networks. Government would finance the remaining
Project costs (US$34.8 million), which include US$17.5 million of taxes and
US$9.8 million to be recovered from farmers, corresponding to the sale of
safety stocks and of the equipment for the on-farm development.
H.  P ronome
5.28        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.4 below.
Procurement would be carried out by the agencies involved in the direct
implementation of the several components of the Project, under the
coordination of the PCU. Bidding procedures would be coordinated by the PCU.
Large packages of works and supplies would be aggregated, and signing and
execution of contracts would be done by the executing agencies separately.
With a few exceptions highlighted below, procurement would be through ICB in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. Drilling of deep wells (US$20.43
million), safety stocks of spare parts (US$0.68 million), including concrete
canals and pipes, the execution of irrigation and drainage works (US$45.97
million), the supply of pumps and hydro-meebanical equipment (US$0.56
million), vehicles (US$1.69 million), and equipment for on-farm development
would be awarded entirely under ICB.yV Local firms are expected to be
competitive for the supply of some equipment and for the execution of works.
A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f bid price of the
imported goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is
less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers. With regard to the
Buildings component (US$0.95 million), cooling towers ($0.87 million) would be
procured through ICB but the construction of shelters for the pumping
equipment (US$0.08 million) would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that qualified local and foreign bidders would be given equal opportunity to
bid under LCB, all bidders would provide bid and performance securities, bid
opening would be public and no late bids would be accepted, and bids would be
evaluated on the basis of criteria and factors specified in the bidding
documents. Electrification (US$1.01 million) would be procured through ICB
for the purchase of the equipment (US$0.68 million), but SONELGAZ, a public
company solely authorized to execute rural electrification works, would
provide installation through direct contract, which would not be financed by
the proposed loan. Miscellaneous equipment (US$1.61 million) would normally
be procured through ICB; however, contracts valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent for items already available in the local market and which would not
be of interest to foreign suppliers (US$0.30 million) could be procured
1/   Drainage works (US$11.99 million), internal roads (US$4.64 million) and
part of the construction equipment (US$1.78 million) are expected to be
financed by EIB and procured in accordance with its guidelines.



- 29 -
through LCB in which foreign suppliers would be eligible to participate; items
costing less than US$20,000, totaling US$0.10 million, which can easily be
obtained off-the-shelf, could be procured under local shopping with at least
three quotations. Although Algerian ICB and LCB procedures are generally
acceptable to the Bank, there are some aspects which are inconsistent with
Bank policy and/or could be improved to ensure better competition. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that procurement under the Project would be
carried out following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants for the
preparation of studies (US$1.45 million) and for technical assistance (US$0.79
million) would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Incremental
recurrent costs which are not financed under the Project include US$7.37
million for incremental staff salaries and 061 costs of works and equipment
for which procurement is inapplicable. Training (US$0.43) would be obtained
by direct arrangement with organizations known to provide training on the
required themes.



- 30 -
Table- 5.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEME1TS
(US$ million equivalent)
Prpcumement Method                      Total
Project Element        ICB           LCB        Other        NA       Cost
Deep Wells              20.43         -           -                    20.43
(16.41)                                       (16.41)
Safety stocks            0.68         -           -            -        0.68
(0.65)                                        (0.65)
Execution of irrig.     45.87         -           -            -      45.87
& drainage works       (23.27)                                        (23.27)
Supply of pumps &        0.56         -           -            -        0.56
hydro-mec. equip.       (0.54)                                         (0.54)
Electrification          0.68         -          0.33          -        1.01
(0.65)                  ( - )                 (0.65)
Buildings                0.87        0.08         -            -       0.95
(0.70)      (0.05)                            (0.75)
Vehicles                 1.69         -           -            -       1.69
(1.43)                                        (1.43)
construction             2.40         -           -            -       2.40
equipment               (0.60)                                         (0.60)
Miscellaneous equip.     1.21        0.30        0.10          -        1.61
and supplies            (1.10)      (0.23)      (0.07)                 (1.40)
On-farm development      9.13         -           -            -       9.13
(8.63)                                        (8.63)
Studies, Technical        -           -          2.24          -       2.24
Assistance                                      (2.24)                 (2.24)
Training                              -          0.43          -       0.43
(0.43)                (0.43)
Incremental                                       -          7.37      7.37
Recurrent costs                                              (_)       (.)
Total                   83.52        0.38        3.10        7.37      94.37
(53.98)      (0.28)      (2.74)      ( - )    (57.00)
Notes:  Figures in ( ) would be amounts financed by WB.



- 31 -
5.29        ContrctReview. All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$500,000 or more and bidding packages for goods costing
the equivalent of US$150,000 or more would be subject to the (Bank) prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 85
percent of the total estimated value of contracts for both goods and works.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank
after contract award. Assurances that the above procedures would be followed
were obtained at negotiations.
I. Disbursements
5.30        Disbursement  Schedul. The proposed Bank loan of US$57 million
would be disbursed over seven fiscal years. The detailed schedule of
disbursements is given in Table 5.5 and summarized below.
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Ye_ars
1992    1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Disbursements
Annual           5.0     7.0    12.0   12.0    8.0    8.0    5.0
Cumulative       5.0    12.0    24.0   36.0   44.0   52.0   57.0
The disbursement period is consistent with profiles for the ENENA Region,
which generally indicate that seven to eight years are required for full
disbursement. This is considered realistic as the bidding documents for the
major civil works, equipment and vehicles should be prepared by Project
effectiveness. The proposed closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1997.
5.31        Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except for goods and services provided under contracts valued below US$100,000
equivalent, for which disbursements would be made against certified statements
of expenditure (SOE). The SOE would be certified by the Project
implementation agency incurring the expenditure. Supporting documentation
would be retained by the implementing agency and made available for inspection
during Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. Disbursement
categories, amounts allocated and share of expenditures to be financed would
be as indicated in Table 5.5 below.



- 32 -
Table 5.5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Category                      Amount of          X of Expenditure to
Loan Allocated            be financed
(US$ million)
1.  Civil works for              37.0             70%
Irrigation
including
drilling of wells
2. Equipment,                    12.0             100l   of foreign
materials and                                 expenditures,
vehicles                                      100l   of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
851 of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
3. Consultants and                3.0             1001
training
4. Un-allocated                   5.0
TOTAL                     57.0
Source: World Bank Appraisal Mission
5.32        To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project,
after loan effectiveness, the Bank would deposit an initial sum of up tc
US$2.0 million to set up a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures
corresponding to the Bank's share of 4 months' Project needs. Bank funds
would be deposited in US dollars in a special account at the Central Bank in
Algeria. The modalities concerning the operation of the special account were
agreed to at negotiations. Government's contribution would be through
appropriate budget allocations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Project's draft annual budgets and financial plans, as proposed to
the Ministries of Agriculture and Equipment, would be presented to the Bank
for information no later than November 30 of each year.
5.33        The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible
for financing out of the fund. A replenishment request would normally be sent
to the Bank when 50 percent of the revolving fund has been disbursed, i.e.,
about every 2 months. Should any disbursement made from the special account
not be acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the
corresponding ineligible amount into the special account or, if the Bank so
requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount not eligible.



- 33 -
5.34        No further deposits into the special account would be made by the
Bank when the total withdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is expected
to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to US$2.0 million. If it is
determined that any amount outstanding in the special account is not required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Government would
refund to the Bank such amount outstanding in the special account.
VI. PROJECT INPLEMENTATION
A. Orxanization and Management
6.01        The responsibility for the general coordination and monitoring of
the Project activities would rest with the Project Coordination and Monitoring
Committee, created by joint decision of the Ministers of Equipment and
Agriculture. The executive body of this Committee would be the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) to be created in the CDARS for this purpose (para.
5.11). The Project would provide funds for the recruitment of staff and
purchase of equipment to assist the PCU to fulfill its duties. The PCU would
be responsible for coordinating project activities among the executing
agencies (CDARS, ANRH, ITDAS, DDAHAs, OPIOR, AGID, ITAS) and for organizing
training and technical assistance programs. It would also set up a system for
monitoring and evaluating Project implementation and impact and would keep
records of the physical and financial progress of the Project execution and
report on them periodically. However, the primary responsibility for the
Project execution would rest with the executing agencies themselves.
6.02        The CDARS, through its Studies and Programming Department, would
be responsible for agriculture development in general and for supervising the
preparation of the Master Plan and Specific Development Plans included in the
Project (para. 5.18). It would also supervise the preparation of the
Complementary Studies for the Development of the Oued R'hir (para. 5.18).
These studies would be prepared by consultants financed under the Project.
CDARS would also promote and be responsible for the organization of the
periodic meitings of the Technical Committee for Hydraulics and Environment
(CTHE) and ensure adequate monitoring of the soil salinity changes in the
Project area.
6.03        The regional directorate of the ANRH would be in charge of the
assessment and monitoring of ground water resources and in particular the
setting up and the operation of a system to monitor the exploitation of these
resources. The Project would provide the ANRH-DRS with equipment and
technical assistance to help it to fulfill these tasks (para. 5.07).
6.04        Extension services will be provided by the DDAHs and the DADs
through the ACVs (paras. 4.16, 4.23). These services would be strengthened
under the Project (para. 5.08). They would be assisted and get technical
guidance from ITDAS, INRA and INPV (para. 4.22). The ACVs will provide a
return flow of information to the research institutes on farmers' specific
constraints. The two training centers of El Oued and Ouargla (para. 4.23)
would train extension agents in preparing messages on technical, economical



- 34 -
and marketing aspects to be transmitted to the farming community. The DADs
will provide subject-matter specialist support to the ACVs.1,
6.05        The applied research component, in particular related to the Oued
R'hir region, will be implemented by ITDAS. The following themes would be
included: irrigation and drainage methods at several levels of water and soil
salinity, intensity of inter-cropping as related to over-all vater
availability and distribution, small scale farm mechanization of date palm
operations (pollinization, trimming, spraying, harvesting), mechanization of
field drains cleaning, Bayoud disease prevention, post harvest date quality
improvement, the use of low quality dates and by-products for animal feeding.
6.06        The ITAS would be in charge of providing training to the extension
staff of the agencies involved in the implementation of the extension program
(para. 5.09).
B. Execution and Maintenance of Proiect Vorks. Purchase of Goods
6.07        The  responsibility for the execution of the rehabilitation works
including the drllling of the deep wells would rest with the ACID. This
agency would finalize the preparation of the bidding documents, would proceed,
in coordination with the PCU, with the procurement arrangements, and would
sign the respective contracts. It would be technically assisted by the ANRH
for the supervision of the drilling of wells. AGID would be assisted with
equipment to strengthen its supervision capabilities.
6.08        Whereas irrigation networks would not require important
maintenance, drainage systems and equLpment will demand routine cleaning and
service. Farmers and farmer groups are already carrying out and would
continue to be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Irrigation
and drainage works, as well as of the pumpitg equipment at the farm and oases
levels. The OPIOR would provide assistance to the farmers in the most
critical fields of pumping and hydro-mechanical equipment by providing spare
parts (safety stock financed by the Project) and drain reshaping and, clalning
services (also with equipment financed by the Project). The farmers' groups
would enter into individual agreements with OPIOR in order to fix mutual
responsibilities regarding the operation and maintenance of the irrigation and
drainage networks. The major stipulations of these agreements would focus on
the following principles: the OPIOR would commit itself (a) to provide free
technical advice on operation, maintenance of works and equipment, and on
water management; (b) to help the groups prepare their annual program of
activities and budgets; (c) to provide any service related to 06N, upon
request of the groups and at cost. The groups would commit themselves: (a)
to maintain and operate the pumping systems and the irrigation and drainage
networks and to pay for the respective costs; (b) to pay for the services to
be provided by OPIOR; (c) to include in their annual budgets their
participation in the cost of maintaining the common drainage infrastructure;
and (d) to permit OPIOR to monitor the adequacy of their 0&K efforts. These
Table 200 Annex 1



- 35 -
specific agreements would be negotiated with each group and signed prior to
awarding of the works. Acceptance of these principles to be part of the
agreements to be signed with farmers was obtained at negotiations.
6.09        The 062 of the main drainage systems requires special heavy
equipment which would be provided to OPIOR by the Project (para. 5.12). The
OPIOR would therefore be in charge of this maintenance, to be partially
financed by the contributions of the groups and users of these common
infrastructures (para. 7.17).
6.10        The OPIOR would procure and supervise the supply of the safety
stock. The OPIOR would also centralize and coordinate all activities related
to the purchase and provision to farmers of the equipment financed under the
on-farm development component. ACID would be in charge of the purchase and
installation of the pumping, and the purchase of electrical equipment to be
installed by SONELGAZ. The construction equipment would be procured by the
OPIOR. All other miscellaneous equipment and materials would be purchased by
the several agencies directly interested (ANRH, ITDAS, CDARS,ITAS), always
under the coordination of the PCU.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.11        Manaaement and Nonitorla8.  The PCU would be responsible for
monitoring the progress in Project implementation (paras. 5.11 and 6.01), and
for collecting data needed to evaluate the Project impact. For this purpose,
early in the Project and within the framework of the technical assistance
financed under the Project (para. 5.19) the CDARS/PCU would be assisted by a
consultant to set up a Project Management Information System (MIS). Annex 2
contains guidelines for defining the key indicators which would be used for
this MUE. Each executing agency would be responsible, however, for monitoring
and recording data pertaining to its own component, under the coordination and
assistance provided by the PCU, to ensure homogeneity and standardization of
proeedures. The physical and financial execution of contracts would be the
object of particular attention and monitored in accordance with the guidelines
mentioned in Annex 2. Because of the nature of the Project, with its heavy
emphasis on institutional strengthening and due to possibility of cost
savings, the Algerian Government and the Bank would carry out a mid-term
review of the implementation of the Project before December 31, 1994. Then,
the expansion of the area to be rehabilitated could be envisaged.
6.12        Regortina  and Evaluation.  The Studies and Planning Directorate of
the Ministry of Agriculture (DEP) would be responsible for evaluating Project
results. The PCU would prepare semi-annual progress reports in accordance
with mutually agreed guidelines and would submit them to the Bank. The DEP
would prepare a Project Completion Report within six months of the loan
closing date.
6.13       Ift2ngyiakn.  Bank supervision input into key activities is
indicated in Table 11 - Supervision Plan. This is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc., estimated to require two staff-weeks in 1992, four



- 36 -
staff-weeks in 1993 and 1994, and three staff-weeks in 1995 and 1996. For the
total Project implementation period, supervision needs are estimated at sixty-
three staff-weeks. The main lines of this Supervision Plan were discussed
with the Borrower. In addition to the semi-annual reports, and prior to the
arrival of Bank supervision missions, the PCU would prepare short notes on
project progress and the main issues to be discussed during the mission. The
PCU would also be in charge of coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions, and for providing information required. Mission briefings on
arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the CDARS
Commissioner, assisted by the Director of the PCU and with the participation
of representatives of the several project agencies. Before departure, the Bank
mission will leave in the field an Aide-Memoire with its conclusions and
recommendations.
D. Accounts and Audit
6.14        The PCU would be responsible for keeping project accounts for the
entire Project. The PCU in CDARS would be responsible for setting up adequate
accounts to coordinate and account for the amounts to be used by the various
agencies and departments involved in the Project (ITDAS, ITAS, ANRH-DRS, AGID,
DDAHAs, and OPIOR). These accounts would be maintained in accordance with
principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. The Project accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditors'
annual reports, along with opinions on Statements of Expenditures used for
certain disbursements under the Bank Loan, and on the revolving fund and
audited Project financial statements, would be sent to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
7.01        The directly quantifiable Project benefits will come from incremental
date production and the improvement in date quality, as well as from increased
production of fodder and vegetable crops. The improvements in supply of water
through the provision of wells and an irrigation distribution system will
alleviate the water shortage now experienced on all the farms that will benefit
from the infrastructure. Cropping intensities are projected to increase from
about 110 percent to around 140 percent with the Project, because of the
increased availability of water. In addition, the improved drainage system will
reduce salinity on the farms and help the quality as well as the yields of dates.
Improvements in extension advice should benefit farmers directly, as should an
increased availability of farm equipment, and these two factors should help to
raise yields on about 6,500 ha of farms, both those benefitting directly from
the infrastructure, and those in the Project area benefitting only from the
improved services and equipment. The increased agricultural production should
considerably improve farmers' incomes, and both export of dates and reduced
imports of vegetables and fodder crops from the North will result. The estimated
increase in annual export earnings is about DA 66 million (US$4 million); date



- 37 -
exports represent only about 30 percent of total incremental date production,
as most of the date production will be consumed locally.
7.02        In addition, secondary benefits would accrue in the short term from
increased employment opportunities, linked directly to Project activities. In
the longer term, considerable benefits should accrue to the entire northern
Sahara region, from the strengthening of institutions which would oversee the
economic developments and exploitation of the largely non-renewable water
resources, and from the master plans for such development to be financed under
the Project.
B. Land Use. Yields and Production
7.03        Land Use. Detailed cropping patterns and yields for three situations
(existing, future without Project and future with Project) are presented in Annex
4 and summarized in Table 7.1 below. At present, the entire area is planted with
date palm trees, and the cropping intensity, including the intercropped area,
averages 110 percent to 125 percent, depending on water availability. In areas
with the greatest water deficit (farm model A), the intensity is lowest, at about
110 percent. Under the Project, it has been assumed that the intensities would
increase over about four years to about 140 percent, with the exception of those
areas where no additional wells or irrigation infrastructure are to be financed
(defined by farm model C, these areas would nonetheless benefit from improved
extension service advice and some on-farm investments).



- 38 -
Table 7.1:   CROPPING PATTERNS AND CROP YIELDS
in the Project Area
At &uII Develonment
Existing Situation       Withut Project  Wlth Proiec
Area   Yield            Area    Yield    Area   Yield
ha     T/ha             ha      T/ha     ha      T/ha
F-armModel A  Water deficit > 40 percent
Dates                   1.0     3.0              1.0      2.0      1.0     5.0
Barley                   .05  14.0                .05     9.0       .15  20.0
Alfalfa                    -       -                -      -        .10   50.0
Tomatoes                                            -      -        .05   12.0
Carrots                  .05  12.0                .05    7.0        .10  18.0
Crop.Intens.            1.10                     1.10              1.40
Farm Model B WAter deficit < 40 percept
Dates                   1.0     4.0              1.0     2.5       1.0     5.0
Barley                   .05  16.0                .05   12.0        .15  20.0
Alfalfa                  .05  30.0                .05  20.0         .10   50.0
Tomatoes                   -      -                 -      -        .05   12.0
Carrots                  .05  15.0                .05  10.0         .10  18.0
Crop.Intens.            1.15                     1.15              1.40
warm Model C No sianificant water deficit
Dates                   1.0     4.5             1.0      4.5       1.0     5.0
Barley                   .05   18.0               .05   18.0        .15   20.0
Alfalfa                  .07   40.0               .07   40.0        .07   50.0
Tomatoes                 .05  10.0                .05  10.0         .05   12.0
Carrots                  .08   17.0               .08   17.0        .10  18.0
Crop.Intens.            1.25                     1.25              1.37
Source:   World Bank appraisal mission
7.04        Xlelds. At present, because of lack of water and salinity
problems, yields of dates and intercropped vegetables and fodder crops are
quite low. They range from 3 to 4.5 tons/ha for dates in the existing
sltuation. It is assumed that in those areas with water deficit and
inadequate drainage (farm models A and B), yields would actually decline over
time with a further deterioration in the drainage and increased salinity, to 2
to 2.5 tons/ha. The same pattern would hold for the intercropped crops.
Projected yields for dates under the Project and at full development ln year 5
are conservative, at 4 to 5 tons/ha, and represent increases of 10 to 65
percent over the without Project situation, depending on the farm model. In



- 39 .
addition, there would be an improvement in the quality of the. dates, which
would mean that a slightly higher proportion of the total date production
would be exportable (25 percent as opposed to 18 percent without the Project),
and the average economic price of the production would increase. For the
other crops, the yield increases due to the Project were assumed to be between
20 and 65 percent, depending on the crop and the severity of water shortage in
the without Project situation. The yield changes are summarized in Table 7.1
above.
7.05        Prduction.  Because the Project would be implemented over a five year
period, and full development of yields and cropping intensities would occur about
four years after the investments, full development for the Project would be in about
year nine. Table 7.2 below shows incremental production from the Project at full
development which results in the difference of the estimated production from the
Project at this time and estimated production in the without Project situation.
Table 7.2:   INCREASES IN ANNUAL PRODUCTION
from the Project Area
Dates      Fodder Crops/a  Vegetables /
'--------'000 tons ----------------
Existing Situation              34.4              20.8            9.6
At full developmentA
Without Project               26.9              14.2            8.2
With Project                  44.0              65.9            21.2
Incremental                   17.1              51.7            13.0
Production increase over
existing situation as
percent of national
production                      8.6               7.4             0.4
Production increase over
existing situation as
percent of local
production/4                   15               274              15
/a Green barley and alfalfa
/b Tomatoes and carrots
/0 Year 9, or 2000 for some crops; later years for others. Thus annual
production ln year 2000 or Later is compared to annual production in 1989.
/d Local production is considered production from the two wilayate of Ouargla
and El OAed.
SOurce: World Bank appraisal mission



- 40 -
7.06        Incremental production is the result of increasing yields for
dates and the other crops, and an increase in cropping intensity, which
affects the vegetables and fodder crops. The value of annual incremental
production, in 1990 financial prices, is about DA 253 million. This is due
mostly to the increased tonnage and partly to the increase in quality of
dates, as mentioned above, which is not shown here (details can be found in
Annex 4). As a proportion of total annual national production, the quantities
of the vegetables and fodder crops are small, at 0.4 percent and 7.4 percent,
respectively, and the quantity of incremental date production represents about
8.6 percent of total national annual production. As a percentage of the total
annual production of the two wilayate concerned, Ouargla and El Oued, this
incremental production represents about 15 percent of both vegetable and date
production. For fodder production attributable to the Project, however, more
than a threefold increase is expected over estimated production in 1989 from
the two wilayate. According to the data from these wilayate, fodder
production has been on a rapid increase over the last four years, mainly from
the increased areas under development in the context of the APFA program.
This local production, which is still quite limited at about 21,000 tons,
represents a decrease in the amounts of fodder that must be imported from the
northern part of the country and goes to feed the small livestock holdings
(usually of goats ar, sheep) that typify many households in the area. The
incremental product on would therefore continue to be substituted for imports
from the north.
C. MarketW  and Prices
7.07        Dates.  Dates are sold by the farmer en the local market, to
private traders, or the Office National des Dattes (OND). OND is a parastatal
under supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. OND provides marketing
services for both domestic and international marketing of dates although it
buys only about 50 percent of national production. In the past 4-5 years,
exports have averaged 3,000 to 5,000 tons out of a total national annual
production of 200,000 tons. Each of its processing plants (total of seven
with three in the Project area) has a number of collection centers; there are
10 per plant in the Project area. OND buys only dates which have been
harvested and pre-sorted by the farmers. The dates bought by OND are sorted
and packaged at the processing plants and sold directly to wholesalers or
intermediaries.
7.08        From the end of 1969 to the start of the 1980s, domestic marketing
as well as exporting was a state monopoly. Nonetheless, a large share of
domestic production was always marketed outside of official channels. After
domestic marketing was liberalized at the beginning of the 1980s, the private
sector rapidly expanded further and has managed to compete well with OND. All
decisions about OND exports are made by the OND management and the processing
plants simply execute them. Transport to the ports is done in OND vehicles.
7.09        With the recent 1989 liberalization of export marketing as well, a
number of private traders have entered the market to export to non-European
countries. In the first year since export liberalization, these exporters did
not compete directly with OND, as they bought a lower quality date. A major



- 41 -
constraint, however, was their lack PO conditioning facilities which could
have been overcome if they could have rented OND's excess capacity. In any
case, date marketing is evolving in Algeria toward a more competitive
environment, which may serve both to increase demand for better quality dates
and to drive up the prices for such dates. The analysis of the Project,
however, used constant real prices for dates.
7.10        Fruits and vegetables.  Most fruit and vegetable production
(garlic, onions, carrots, tomatoes, etc.) is consumed on-farm or sold on the
local market. Nonetheless, some early-season produce is sold to markets in
the north and there is some trade with neighboring urban centers. Marketing
is usually done through direct sale by the producer, usually at the retail
level in local markets or the larger weekly markets.
7.11        In the last five years, production of vegetable crops has
practically doubled in the Project area, while the prices have remained
strong. The increase in production has come mainly from the increased use of
greenhouses in the area and from the recent development under the APFA
program. It can be expected that production of these crops will continue to
grow rapidly in the near future (the next five years) from on-going APFA
development, and prices might soften somewhat over this time period.
Incremental production from the Project is expected to equal about 15 percent
of the current level of production and should have no significant impact on
market prices.
7.12        Fodder croRs and livestock products.  Fodder crops (green barley
and alfalfa) are grown primarily to feed on-farm animals. A small share of
production is sold in bales on the local markets, or sometimes in neighboring
areas. Since livestock production is not well developed, meat and milk
consumption are very low. Demand is, however, fairly strong, to the point of
importing fodder crops from the North. Incremental production from the
Project would represent a large increase over current local production (see
Table 7.2 above). As a result, it was assumed that the financial and economic
prices of barley and alfalfa would decrease by 20 percent in real terms over
the next five years.
D. Farm Incomes
7.13        The Project would directly benefit about 6,000 farm families,
including members of small private groups of farmers and cooperatives, and
private farmers, for a total of about 45,000 people. In addition, the Project
would generate, at full development, over 200,000 man-days of employment,
which is the equivalent of about 650 full-time jobs, although this would be
supplied almost entirely by family labor (except for about 20 full-time job
for skilled workers). Indirect benefits would include additional employment
created by the increased construction and maintenance activities of the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and by the increased marketing and
processing activities from the incremental production from the Project.
7.14        The financial costs and benefits to farms are summarized in three
farm models, shown in Table 7.3. Model A represents the without Project



- 42 *
situation where the water deficit is greater than 40 percent of requirements;
Model B, where the water deficit in the without Project situation is less than
40 percent of requirements; and Model C, the situation where there is no water
deficit, but where the farmers will still benefit from improved extension
advice and cropping practices, and minor on-farm investments (back-pack
sprayers and dusters). In Model A, because of the water deficit combined with
inadequate drainage, the without Project situation is likely to deteriorate to
the point where farming may become, after a ten year period, unattractive, and
the farms may be abandoned, which did happen for a period of time in other
areas of the Oued R'hir Valley. The incremental benefits in farms A and B are
particularly large: in Model A incremental net income is DA 37,200, compared
to only DA 700 in the without Project situation at full developmenit. In Model
B the incremental net income is estimated at DA 32,100 compared to a net
income of DA 6,200 in the without Project situation. At full development, the
returns per family day of labor increase from a range of less than DA 50 to
330/manday in the without Project situation, including all three models, to a
range of DA 440-630/manday in the with Project situation. This compares to a
daily wage rate of about DA 100/manday for casual (unskilled) labor in the
Project area.j/
~/    These calculations, as well as the figures in Tables 7.3 and 7.4, were
made in 1990 terms on the basis of a different exchange rate; with the
change in the exchange rate the nominal amounts will be different, but
the conclusions in real terms still hold.



- 43 -
Table 7.3: FINANCIAL BUDGETS AND RETURNS TO FAMILY LABOR la
Farm Models,k
A                 B                  C
Size of Farm (ha)                    1                  1                  1
Number of farms                    2,284              1,269              3,000
- (DA '000) -------'----
Net Annual Income - Present          9.0               20.2               21.3
Net Income - Future
without Project                    0.7                6.2               23.2
Net Income - Future
with Project                      37.9               38.4               31.2
Incremental Net Income              37.2               32.1                8.1
Returns per family day of labor
Present                            240                415                300
Future - without Project           <50                180                330
Future - with Project              630                550                440
Incremental                        600                370                 90
/A    See footnote to para. 7.14, page 42
/h   Model A:  Water deficit in the without Project situation is greater than
40 percent of water requirements;
Model B: Water deficit in the without Project situation is less than 40
percent of requirements;
Nodel C: There is no water deficit in the without Project situation, but
the farmers will benefit from an improved extension service and
modest on-farm investment.
Source: World Bank appraisal mission
E. Cost Rec.ggya
7.15        In the Project area, farmers belong to farmer associations for the
purpose of operating and maintaining the wells and irrigation distribution
system up to the farm level, and the farm drainage ditches. They divide the
costs among themselves and contribute to a fund for this O&M and for major
repairs or replacements when needed. One farmer may belong to several



-44-
associations if he has more than one source of water. The continuation of
this situation would be formalized through the agreements to be established to
ensure proper maintenance of the investments (para. 6.08). In addition, under
the Project, an agency (OPIOR) is to be set up (para. 5.12) to maintain the
main drainage canal and to maintain or construct, on farmers' request and on
the basis of full cost recovery, any on-farm irrigation and drainage
infrastructure.
7.16        The users of the main drainage network include both the farmers
and the urban communities of the Oued R'hir valley. All beneficiaries of the
main drainage network would be expected to participate in the costs of the
infrastructure. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would establish the principles of cost recovery (i.e., sharing of costs among
farmers throughout the Oued R'Hir valley and urban beneficiaries) for the
operation and maintenance of the common drainage networks and would make these
principles effective before Project completion (December 1996).
7.17         For the Project beneficiaries, cost recovery would relate to the
investment costs of the wells and the irrigation system and to the investment
and maintenance costs of a portion of the main drainage network. Under the
Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan 2809-AL) financed by the World Bank in the
northern part of the country, it was agreed that water charges would recover
100 percent of O&N and 25 percent of investment costs. If similar recovery
rates are applied to the relevant items under this Project, and if the Project
beneficiaries are responsible for about 40 percent of the use of the main
drainage network, and therefore for about 40 percent of the maintenance costs,
a fixed annual levy would be required, in constant 1990 terms, of DA 5,600/ha
for farms in Model A and DA 5,100/ha for farms in Model B. Since farmers
already pay charges to their associations for O*M of wells and irrigation
networks (para. 7.15), this levy would be an entirely new charge to them.
7.18        Table 7.4 shows the burden of 100 percent maintenance (assuming
Project farmers will be responsible for 40 percent of the use of the main
drainage works) and 25 percent investment cost recovery as a percentage of
total rents accruing to the two farm models where investment in irrigation and
drainage will take place under the Project. The rents are defined as net
incremental income less imputed costs for a number of factors plus an
allowance for the farmer's return to risk. Supporting Table 12 shows the
detailed calculations for the summary in the Table below. About 20 percent of
the rent as defined and about 14 percent of the incremental income would be
captured through these cost recovery levels, which shows that, in principle,
the farmers should have no financial difficulty in paying this extra charge.
The only difficulty may be the introduction of a fixed annual levy on the
land, and the complicated land tenure arrangements on a number of farms in the
Project area that would make it difficult to apportion a levy on the basis of
land holdings; it may have to be done instead on the basis of the number of
date palm trees held by a farmer. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that
cost recovery levels would be applied in the Project area to continue ensuring
recovery of 100 percent of operation and maintenance costs, and to recover a
reasonable portion of investment costs.



- 45 -
TIble 7.6 COST AND RENT RECOVERY A
Farm models at full development
A                 B
Farm size (ha)                       1                  1
Number of farms                   2,284              1,269
-   ------ --  DA -..-
1. Net incremeutLal income/      41,700             36,200
2. RentA                         29,100             23,900
Assuming 100l of maintenance costs of OPIOR and 25% investment cost recovery
3. Land betterment levyld         5,600              5,100
4. Rent recovery index (3:2)      19.2X              21.3%
5. Net incremental income
recovery index (3:1)           13.4X              14.0%
/a    See footnote to para. 7.14, page 42
/b    Water charges already deducted, as usually paid by farmers to farmers'
associations for operation of well.
/c    Rent is incremental income less depreciation, inputed value of family
labor and of management, inputed return on own capital, and an allowance
for risk, calculated at 5X of gross value of production.
/d    Assuming that all cost recovery would be through either a land
betterment levy or a date palm tree levy. Here is shown as a levy on
the land.
F. Economic Analysis
7.19        The Project would be comprised of institution building for a
number of agencies that plan, execute, research, support, monitor, and
maintain irrigation infrastructure and agricultural activities in the Sahara;
support for the establishment of development plans for five wilayate; a
component for irrigation infrastructure (wells, irrigation systems and
improved drainage networks); and on-farm investments. The economic analysis
was carried out for the irrigation infrastructure, the support to the
extension services, and on-farm investments. The other components of the
Project would have benefits of a much longer-term nature, dispersed throughout
the southern regions, and are not directly or easily quantifiable.
7.20        In the discussion that follows, the economic costs And benefits
associated with the project are assumed to last over a twenty year period, the
assumed economic life of the principal infrastructure. In some cases, the
infrastructure and the date palm trees may last for up to forty years, while
in others, the palm trees may have only fifteen years of productive life,



- 46 -
after which they would be replanted.
7.21        All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1990 prices and
valued in border prices. The costs included in the analysis are for wells and
associated pumping equipment, irrigation and drainage networks, operation and
maintenance and replacement costs, on-farm investment costs, and the full
costs (vehicles, equipment, training, incremental staff costs) of improving
the extension services in the Project area. Wherever possible, import or
export parity prices were used for items such fertilizers, diesel, and
agricultural equipment, using the World Bank's commodity price projections for
1995 and 2000 wherever relevant. Unskilled labor was taken at 50 percent of
the market price, while skilled labor was taken at 100 percent because of its
apparent scarcity. Where specific conversion factors were not calculated, the
standard conversion factor of 0.55 was used.
7.22        Eom=ic Prices of Output.  Commodities that are traded have been
priced at the 1990 export parity price; this is mainly the highest quality of
dates. For the other commodities which are officially non-traded, such as
vegetables and certain fodder crops, Algerian prices are currently
exceptionally high because of a protected market. The vegetables have
therefore been priced at Tunisian border equivalents, based on 1990 Tunisian
financial prices, and adjusted for transport costs, and the fodder crops have
been converted using the standard conversion factor. The detailed calculation
by crop and comparison with the financial prices can be found in Annex 3 of
the Implementation Volume.
7.23        Rconomic Rate of Return.  The overall economic rate of return for
the Project is estimated at 17 percent. The Net Present Value of the Project
at a discount rate of 10 percent is DA 589.1 million. The Project is thus
considered economically acceptable for financing. It also fits into
Government's priority of developing the South, and will have benefits that
extend far beyond thcse measured by this rate of return, in terms of
improvements in long-term planning, and ensuring sustainability of the
development of water and soil resources in this fragile area.
G. Risks and Sensitivity Analyais
7.24        A number of risks could decrease the economic viability of the
Project, but the following discussion shows that the rate of return of the
Project is fairly robust:
(i)   A delay in Project implementation could occur because of, inter
alia, delays in procurement and finalizing contractor selection,
delays or problems with contractors' performance, or shortage of
construction materials. Assuming that expenditures were on
schedule, but that there was a two year delay in finalizing the
civil works, which would delay the benefits by two years, the ERR
would fall to 13.8 percent. Alternatively, problems with
procurement or with contractors could increase costs; if costs
were to increase by 20 percent, this would decrease the ERR to
14.8 percent.



- 47 -
(tU) Because of a combination of profound changes in the structure of
marketing and a shortage of foreign exchange, inputs have
sometimes been in short supply, and shortages of farm equipment
have been common. If the farmers in the Project area suffer from
delayed arrival of farm equipment to be financed under the
Project, or from delays or shortages in inputs, this would
adversely affect yields. A decrease of 20 percent in benefits
from these risks would cause the ERR to fall to 14.3 percent.
(iWi) Farmers could be unwilling to maintain the on-farm systems to
ensure sustainability of the investments. In this case, the
benefits would also suffer and, as noted in (ii) above, a decrease
of 20 percent in the benefits would decrease the ERR to 14.3
percent.
(iv) Inadequate operations and/or maintenance of the infrastructure
could shorten the life of the investments. Sensitivity analysis
shows that if investments were to last only 15 years (instead of
20), the rate of return would drop to 14.4 percent.
7.25        The results of the sensitivity analysis show that in all of these
scenarios the Project is still economically viable. The risk of inadequate
water supply from over-exploitation of the water resource from continuing to
distribute land under the APFA, would be reduced by agreement with Government
on limiting this land development (para. 4.06), and by careful monitoring of
water resources (para. 2.22). The risk of inadequate maintenance would be
minimized by reaching formal agreements between farmers or farmer groups and
the OPIOR to be established under the Project on the operation and maintenance
(paras. 6.08 and 7.15). In addition, the switching values on the Project show
that all benefits would have to decrease by 67 percent or all costs to
increase by over 200 percent for the economic rate of return to fall below 10
percent.
H. SustainabilitX
7.26        The primary benefits from the Project are designed to address
issues of long-term planning and institutional development for planning,
implementation and monitoring. It is precisely the sustainability of such
benefits into the indefinite future that is the primary objective of the
Project. The intention is to use the results of the long-term planning for
future development of the Sahara, and to strengthen the institutions
responsible for carrying out this development, so that they would have
necessary staff, expertise, and training to make good use of the Master Plans
to be drawn up under the Project, and would also be able to monitor the soil
and water resources. The purpose of strengthening the research and extension
capabilities is also to achieve long-term sustainable benefits from improved
cultural practices in the area. In addition, through implementing the
infrastructural aspects of the Project, a number of other factors will be



- 48 -
tested which should prove of use in further rehabilitation of southern oases.
These include designs to maximize efficient use of water, organizational
arrangements for execution of civil works, for the operation and maintenance
of the infrastructure, and implementation of cost recovery policies.
7.27        As to the sustainability of the quantifiable benefits of improved
yields and quality dates and higher cropping intensities that will be directly
attributable to the infrastructure to be financed under the Project, this will
depend on the effectiveness of the maintenance arrangements put in place under
the Project and sustained thereafter. If OPIOR proves to be an effective
agency, and if cost recovery policies permit OPIOR to operate with sufficient
funds, then the quantifiable benefits from the Project of incremental
production should last at least throughout the life of the palm trees, and
presumably thereafter through replanting.
I. Environmental Aspects
7.28        The proposed Project has been reviewed in accordance with the
provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental
Assessment' and placed in environmental screening category B. The proposed
Project does not require preparation of an environmental assessment and will
support improved environmental management in the Project area through: (a) a
program of studies to promote the environmentally sound development program
for the Sahara Region, and (b) a series of specific interventions to be
supported under the Project in the Oued R'hir to improve environment and
natural resources management.
7.29        Development of a Master Plan.  The proposed Project will support
the preparation of an environmentally sound Development Master Plan for the
Sahara Region. This will be complemented by development plans for the
wilayate of Adrar, Biskra, El Oued, Ghardaia and Ouargla. The Project would
support preparation of environmental assessments, consistent with the
requirements of the Government of Algeria and the World Bank, as integral
components of both the master plan and wilayate development plans. The
environmental assessments would promote the evaluation and incorporation of
environmental concerns into the planning process.   At a policy level, this
process will be linked by an agreement with the Government of Algeria to
support development activities, including the allocation of groundwater
resources, which are consistent with the Regional Master Plan and the
recommendations of the ERESS study of regional groundwater management. The
Project will support training in environmental assessment to improve
institational capabilities, and to maximize the participation of Algerian
experts in the preparation of the environmental analyses for studies.
7.30        Environmental Activities in the Qued R'hir.  Activities supported
under the proposed Project in the Oued R'hir would improve environment and
natural resources management by:
(a)   establishment of a system for water quantity and quality
management and monitoring in the proposed Project area and
training personnel in the use of this information for system



- 49 -
planning and management;
(b)   assuring improved coordination of agricultural drainage and
domestic/agro-industrial wastewater management by integration of
planning for these activities;
(c)   improving water management and conservation in irrigated
agriculture through rehabilitation of wells and water distribution
infrastructure, promotion of improved on-farm water management by
extension personnel, and demonstration of water conserving designs
and technologies;
(d)   reducing salinization of soils by improving drainage, promotion of
improved salt leeching methods by extension personnel, and applied
research on drainage;
(e)   reducing vector habitat by removing large volumes of presently
stagnant water from informal/temporary drainage ponds and by
connecting tertiary and secondary drainage systems to the main
drainage canal; and
(f)   promoting the demonstration of new crop protection methods,
training for personnel involved in crop protection research, and
provision of proper equipment for the application of agricultural
chemicals and for the safety of applicators.
Implementation of these activities would be evaluated to determine which
measures should be adopted for transfer from the pilot project area to future
development programs in the region.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        At negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would:
(a)   set up a system to monitor water quality in the main drainage
collectors by June 30, 1993 (para. 2.24);
(b)   base the future development of the region on (1) the plans to be
financed under the Project and (2) the results of the water
extraction monitoring system to be established under the Project
(para. 4.06); in the meantime (i) the irrigation development would
be limited to the areas already distributed under the APFA
program; and (ii) the distribution of new land for irrigation
development would be controlled to meet the recommendations of the
ERESS study (para. 4.06);
(c)   implement a program to close all deteriorated and non-operational
wells in the Oued R'hir Valley and complete this program before
December 31, 1996 (para. 4.31);



0 so -
(d)   through ANRH implement a monitoring system of the ground water
resources, including water quality, in the project area before
December 31, 1993 and report its findings annually (para. 5.07);
(e)   establish as a condition of effectiveness, an agency (OPIOR) for
the operation and maintenance of the main drainage infrastructure,
the management of the safety stock and the provision of repair and
maintenance services to farmers with a mandate satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.12); provide OPIOR with funds to operate and
maintain the common drainage collectors, prior to sufficient cost
recovery from users to finance its operations (para. 5.12);
(f)   ensure that procurement under the Project would be carried out
under procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.28);
(g)   establish formal agreements with farmers or farmers' groups to
define and allocate responsibilities for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems financed under
the Project, before awarding of the works (para. 6.08);
(h)   establish the principles of cost recovery for the operation and
maintenance of the common drainage networks, with respect to
allocation of costs among farmers throughout the Oued R'Hir valley
and urban beneficiaries, and make these principles effective
before December 31, 1996 (para. 7.16); and
(i)   apply cost recovery levels in the Project area to ensure recovery
of full operation and maintenance costs, and some reasonable
portion of investment costs (para. 7.18);
8.02        Based on the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$57.0 million to the Government of Algeria, for a term of
17 years, including 5 years of grace. The Project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1996.



- 51 -
Table 1
ALGERIA
SAHARA REGIONAL OEVELOP  T POWJECT
(DA N.)
Project Caionents by Yeer
Oase Costs                           Total
,.................................................................
l1      193    1994    1995    1996 (OM.) (UW.)
A . INSITUTIOL DEVELOPnENT          71.94    19.65   245.    16.94    16.94   150.03    9.04
B . REVAILITATION OF ORSES         240.23  487.32   167.24    30.98   23.15  948.92   57.16
C .  FARM OEWELOPHET                57.20    0.00   69.44      0.00    0.00   126.65    7.63
0 . STIES/TEc.ASSIST/TRAIN          8.93    18.26    9.74      1.76     1.76   40.45    2.4
......................... ...................................
Total BASELIKE COSTS               3.30   525.23  270.98   49.69   41.86  1266.0   76.27
Physicat Contittglenie           52.39   83.67   35.69    3.37    0.35   175.46   10.57
Price Contfngencies             124.02  354.65   248.09    50.09   45.60  822.46    7.53
.................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS               554.71  963.55   554.76   103.15   87.81  26.98   94.37
Taxes                           105.62   175.69   96.38    22.74    18.9   419.43    17.49
Foreign Exchange                375.40  S47.03  346.49    53.35   43.68  1365.95   57.31
Valims Scaled by 1000.0 8/28/1991  13:15



-52 -                                          TABLE 2
LIUA                                            Page  1
SEISA  hL OEMANR  PeROCT
SuWWV Acms Cast EAmrY
(CANM.)                           (USS NI                        ETouta
..............................    ....... '-..-.....--...----- S     "Io            awe_
l   feorl            Totall       Loot  Fo@relJn    Toti        abaW         cst
..............................    ............................................... ..............................................^...............
*  insurrcost
...................
A.  btles
1. AIris                            0.54      0.54       1.09         0.05     0.03      O.O?         50.00      0.09
z.    o     s                       5.81       5.81      11.62       O03        0.35     0.70         50.00       0.92
Z,  ........................ ..... .............. ........................ ............. .............. ......................... ..
9Tot-T*6t                                          .36          10                 0.3      0.77         50.00       1.00
.INISIATIUN "WU
1. t   Rh9.68                                 9.6        19.76         .60      0.40     1.19         50.00       1.56
2.  re s           u s             16.92      16.92     33.34         1.02      1.02     2.04         50.00       2.67
3. CurA1tes                        23.22      23.22     46.43         1.40      1.40     2.60         50.00       3.6?
4.                                106.41    106.41    212.62          6.41      6.41    12.62         50.00      16.61
S  IwrsJl/enates                   7.97       7.97      15.94        0.4"      0.46     0.96         50.00       1.26
6.    ars/S.gmdas                  22.14     22.14      44.27         1.33      1.33     2.67         50.00       3.50
7. owr"wsjsVWs                      0.13      0.13       0.26         0.01      0.01     0.02         50.00       0.02
6. St0k UWliteaIArk                 1.90       1.90      3.79         0.11      0.11     0.23         50.00       0.30
................. ........................................ ...........................   ....................
suT*totl                             188.56    188.56    377.12         11.36    11.36    22.72          50.00      29.79
C. o0816  SUE
1. CoUbstssms                     23.12      23.82      4t.63         1.43      1.43     2.87         50.00      3:76
2. Ortmis                          29.87     29.87      59.74         1.80      1.80     3.60         50.00      4.72
3. omwr s                          25.41     25.41      50.81         1.53      1.53     3.06         50.00       4.01
4. Pisto                           30.93     30.93      61.87         1.86      1.66     3.73         50.00       4.89
, .............. ...... ... .....W ;.. ....               ........... ................ ................
mb-Totlt                             110.02    110.02    220.05          6.63      6.63    13.26         50.00      17.38
0. DE  WLLS
1. Forage  CT                      11.29     33.86      45.14         0.68     2.04      2.72         75.00      3.57
2.  eXrse  Cl                      48.82    16.46    1".28            2.94     8.82    11.76          75.00      15.42
I....................             ........................   ....................
sub-Totl                              6  0.1    1.2    240.42            342    10.6    14.48            75.00      198.9
B. DESRMV  OEP WELLS
1. Fot go CT                        1.67      5.02       6.69         O.O      0.30      0.40         75.00      0.53
2. ForeCl                           7.05     21.16      28.21         0.42      1.27     1.70         75.00      2.23
.-...... ;.......  ...... i.....    ............... :..............   ............... ............ ................... 
sub-Total                              6-n       26.18     36.90         0.53      1.58     2.10         75.00       2.76
.--  lltigilaN  MIt_t
*, paw                              2.34      5.46       7.80         0.14     0.3       0.47         ?0.00      0.62
2. NWril Elecwtriq                  4.23      9.86      14.08         0.25     0.59      0.85         70.00       1.11
S. stg* Socurite/Apintt             1.40      3.26       4.65         0.08     0.20      0.28         70.00      0.37
t .................. ...........................    ...........................   ....................
s-ToL                                  7.        18.58     26.54         0.48      1.12     1.60         70.00       2.10
VNICLES
1. ViCltlos IT                      7.71      8.35      16.05         0.46     0.50      0.9?         52.00      1.27
2. VehJlloe Laismo                  4.67      3.4        8.11         0.28     0.21      0.49         42.40      0.6'.
3. NlM lettes                       0.03      0.04       0.07         0.00     0.00      0.00         56.00      0.01
;................. ..... ................ ...................    ...........................   ....................
b-Totl                                12.41      11.8      26.24         0.75     0.71      1.46         48.60       1.91
H. CtNM IN O IPtHNT
1  uqstp MmI Divers                4.11      23.30      27.41         0.25     1.40      15           65.00      2.16
2. Calon                            1.01      5.73       6.74         0.06     0.35      0.41         65.00      0.53
K............... ......   .............. ....................     ...........................   ....................
5mb-To"tal                             5.12     t9.02      34.15         0.31      1.75     2.06         85.00      2.70
t. OFuCIN NWnut
1.  Odttrs                          0.14      0.47       0.61         0.01     0.03      0.04         77.04      0.05
2. M     Wer   sreu                 0.31       1.09      1.40         0.02     0.0?      0.08         77.59      0.11
3.  ocuntation                      0.13      0.67       0.9          0.01     0.05      0.06         S?.26      0.06
4.  sturleI Divrs                   4.55      15.56     20.11         0.27     0.94      1.21         7?.35       1.59
................. ........................................ ...........................   ....................
b-Toutl                                51        17.98     23.12         0.31      1.08     1.39         77.79       1.63
1.  atrIel Alicole                19.00    107.65    126.65           1.14     6.48      7.3          85.00     10.00
K. THPIC.L ASSISTAC
1. Cmnsltints                       1.21     10.85      12.06         0.07     0.65      0.73         90.00      O.9
L. 12611110
1. stop  Etrasr                    0.79       3.72       4.51         0.05     0.22      o.2          82.54      0.36
2. Step  Psw                        0.52       1.35       1.67        0.03     0.08      0.11         72.17      0.15
sub-total                              1.31      5.07       6.36         0          .31     0.6           9.50      0.50
1. pigsam Trwn1M                   8.80      13.21      22.01         0.53     0.00      1.33         60.00      1.7'
.... iZ.........                    .....  ..... i   .... W...    .... ;............................. ................. ...........
total UVTNET CSTS                        71    725.6    1160.3          26.19    43.71    69.90          62.54     91.63
............................... ........................... ....................



TABLE 2
-53  -Page  2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.........'   ............... ...
A, PERSOWUEL
1. Chauffeurs                          1S.f5        0.00       15.5            0.96       0.00      0.96            0.00        1.26
2. Cadres                               4.56        0.00         4.56          0.2?       0.00       0.27           0.00        0.36
3. Agents                                4.97        0.00        4.97          0.30       0.00       0.30           0.00        0.39
..............................          ...................................... .v.......................   ....................
Sub-Total                                  25.48        0.00       25.48           1.53      0.00       1.53            0.00        2.01
B. 06f CIVIL WORKS
1. Corstruct ans                        0.28        0.28        O.S6           0.02       0.02      0.03           SO.00        0.04
2. Irrigation works                      2.21       2.21         4.42          0.13       0.13      0.27           50.00        0.35
3. Drsinae works                         5.05        5.05       10.10          0.30       0.30       0.61          50.00        0.80
..............................          ................................................ .............................................. ..........
Sub-total                                   7.54        7.54       15.08           0.45      0.45       0.91          50.00         1.19
C. 0U EOUIPHENT
1. Pumping Costs                       10.19       10.19       20.37           0.61       0.61       1.23          50.00        1.61
2. Paintenance Pump                      0.52        1.22        1.74          0.03       0.07       0.10          70.00        0.14
3. Construction Equdpumst                1.95       8.45       10.40           0.12       0.51      0.63           81.27        0.82
4. Office                                1.05       3.12        4.17           0.06       0.19      0.25           74.80        0.33
5. Vehicules TT                        12.14       16.34       28.48           0.73       0.98       1.72          57.38        2.25
..... .........................        .............................................. .....  ....................
Sub-Total                                  25.84       39.31       65.16           1.96      2.37       3.93          60.34        5.15
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      58.86       46.85      105.71          3.55       2.82       6.37          44.32        8.3S
.....................7..................M.........4................. ................... - ,...---....I-----......I-------------..... ...........-----------------...........
Total BASELINE COSTS                      493.57    77.48   1266.05              29.73    46.53    76.27              61.01      100.00
Physical Contingencies                 70.76      104.70      175.46           4.26       6.31     10.57           S9.67       13.86
Price Contingencies                   333.70    488.77    822.46               3.06       4.47      7.53           59.31        9.87
Total PROJECTS COSTS                      898.03   136S.95   2263.98              37.06     S7.31      94.3?          60.73      123.73
Val....Sca.ed.b.        0.....................................................5................................
Values Seated by 1000.0 -   SM28.1991  13:15



- 54 -
AG
SA &W EIONL DEVWPIOR   PROJEC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EstiMated Schedule of DisburseMMn of Bank Loan /a
IBRD           Semester      By end of    Cumulative    Cumulative
Fiscal Year    Ending        Semester                    X of
Disbursement
1992          Dec  91           -
June 92        5.0             5.0               91
1993          Dec  92         3.0           8.0               141
June 93        4.0           12.0              21X
1994          Dec  93         6.0          18.0               321
June 94        6.0           24.0              421
1995          Dec  94        4.0           28.0               491
June 95        4.0           36.0              631
1996          Dec  95        4.0           40.0               70X
June 96        4.0           44.0               771
1997          Dec  96         4.0          48.0               841
June 97        4.0           52.0              911
1998          Dec  97         5.0          57.0              1001
/a     Expected Effectiveness Date  : January   1992
Expected Completion Date      : December  1996
Expected Closing date         : June       1997



WA  RUZOaL tUIUI  R  E                   C Z 6  O UYUDWD    an iiin SA_US13
MtaL BUDS     4lW=Z C      UI    IA E 8TDMIU  f AUT  1 I   M.10 0I 11*12 T     PM A
(II NhIJl  DA 1 Ell M=LICIB W DuAlS)
14I M&oL             zla   ,e   --  Iibalt.a  tet       l      1 fet as t = es imt.e    l 1 fau   alclO.e  totW  Me .& Tastetal sm  WI. <
7.08  15.26  23.14
M11S  -ow                                         239.23 463.55 702.78
coo 0D.                                                                                                    3.01  3.64  0.65
23S8.5  260.54 407.12
cuZS                                               68.61  9.77  467.36
IRIMS EP                                            6.90  31.19  36.09
8=  FQUp                                                                                                   1.60  6.15  9.05
rICLE         2.12  3.60  5.02 0.83  1.49 2.32   1.16   2.27   3AS 3.24 5.81 9.05  1.08 1.93  3.01 2.37  4.28  6.63                            0.37  0.67  1.04
m.nc     it.                                                                                               4.35 47.13 52.06
MMUC. XCIIM.   0.39  2.61  3.00 0.75  S.08 5.83                         0.56 3.80  4.3S  2.47 16.73 19.20 0.03  0.19  0.21                     0.so  0.71  0.81
Co-PAM EQIIP.                                                                                             18.31 200.91 219.22
IMC. AS=.    1.00 17.52 18.52                                                                                                                                   a
32*13198      1.49  0.43  10.02
SRUD7          1.93 33.73 35.86   * 
0hR2n33       8.02  0.00  8.02 1.13  0.00 1.13                          9.07 0.00 9.07  1.66 0.00  1.66 25.14  0.00 25.14                      0.67  0.00  0.67 "
amn sNamR                                                                                                                    10.27 20.92 31.19                   1
EPIWB ~1CCT                                                                                                                  14.19 26.9t  43.10
amCOlNR11OIP.                                                                                              2.02 17.26 19.28
Os" M sC.1QUIP. 2.37  7.10  9.47 1.32  3.97 5.29   1.43   4.29   5.n  5.92 17.75 23.67  2.06 6.16  8.22 0.06  0.16  0.22                       0.48  1.44  1.02
1O5hLS       17.32 74.19 91.S1 4.03 10.54 14.57 463.01 1183.87 164.68 1.79 27.3S 46.15  7.26 24.62 32.11 57.09 284.49 341.56 24.46 49.63 74.29 1.2  2.8t  4.44
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 56 -
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAHARA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Procurement Packages
(US$ Million)
Item                    Method Responsibility  1992   1993   1994   1995
A. Deep wells                ICB      AGID         17.71     -      -      -
B. Safety stock              ICB      OPIOR            - 0.68       -
C. Irrigation/drainage works ICB      AGID         45.87     -             -
D. Suplly of pumps and       ICB      AHRH/AGID        -            -      -
hydromechanic equip.                                   1.60      -      -
E. Electrification           ICB      AGID             - 0.83       -      -
F. Vehicles                  ICB      PCU           1.69     -      -      -
G. Construction equip.       ICB      OPIOR         2.40     -      -      -
Source: World Bank - Appraisal Mission



- 57 -
STAFFAPRIA  REPOR
SAHARA REGION"   IVEOM        PROECT
Agency        Light        4x4    Minibus    Mopeds
CDARS           3          6
ITDAS           3          1           -        -
ANRH-DRS        1          4           .
DDAHA           2           --                  -
Daira           3
Commune        15          3                   15
CFVA            2          -           2        -
ITAS            1          -           -
PCU             1          1           -        -
OPIOR           5          8           -        -
AGID            -          5
.............,..................... ..................................................... 
Total          36         28           2       1S
Source: World Bank-Appraisal Hission



- 58 -
Table 7
FF*P  APEIBAL REoRT
SAA   RAealmL OWaPiE   PRJC
List  f Oaes.raoteristies.Cost
cose sts                                 Cost with conting.
sector lltoer        am          Area  rainage Driltltng irriatfon  Total Cost/he  cost/ha          Totad   Costha  Cost/ho
uWd    wd
Roads    PupEing
EqUip.
ha  ..-.....   of.  .................*   D            US         0 DA it.   OA      us t
16    Sl        Ctoucha           224     14.9       8.8      24.8      48.5  216518    13043         89.1   197768    1603
SH7    15       Sfdl Amrane       578     44.9      34.1      60.0    139.0  240484    14487         252.2  436332    1799
Su7    sDr      Tdbdidwd  Jidide 521      22.2      44.7      46.4    113.3   217466    13100        203.2  390019    16083
SNT   So10      Nazer             523     36.2      37.6      67.3    141.1  249790    16252         256.1   489675    20193
S110   so3      N'Ghaser sud      m       48.7      74.0      81.8    204.5  2648Q6    15958         368.3  477073    19673
OH10  M04        othasior Cuest  389      23.7      33.6      45.1    102.4  263239    158I 8        184.4  474036    1954
s110   36       N'Chaeor Centre  244       14.8     34.7      27.5      77.0   315574    19010       136.6  559836    23086
1111   SNS      OUR thlour        302     14.6      12.3      24.4      51.3   169868    10233        94.3  312252    12876
.........................................................................................................................
Totals                           3553    220.0    279.8      377.3    877.1                         1584.2
=.........................................................................................................................
Averages                                  27.5      35.0      47.2    109.6  244729    14743         198.0  642124    18232
Sores A1ox I



gs puzUy :_ao
,q.n  og  uo  Poq unwasoT     501  _m
mzv       o         ttt Stec   "N OWt   met    Cott         tOU    Mt           tCSot    ag        ett
we      9-   3n   tot    se0   6Tr    "1    OT               10t      9c 9ot              tOil      t           tl8.
90tt  009    Ca                t9       3           00       30?      lot I090t
ot 30        tog               0        get        1t        0        8an           U1
3tt     In     an1 "t   BinZ Ut          Tt    1??          son    tz   t       6m       999         1
0     o0e    Oct                        gon                                luJt 81
3Ste   co    fit9                                  16        0        no            SOm
699?  099    6u3               ISt  93?            131       1        0931          LB
O"t  OCZ   cm                  btt       an         UOt    gm         con           An
0t    t9-    9         t9 tt OL    9"t 8 tO   s             0        Om         "9O      0         "c0    X&OSUD
93   o0t    9                  0        9t          0OC      0        O' 5          338
93t   009    e1o               0        9C          n        0        963t           3
See   0       06               0        906         @1  0             0? 
9Z   0e        3               0              n       e o0            £95           tUB
*/1   3/?    3/?T  */n              3/
V1 S/_                         7t 10 1*                       11n1u
mxwum inm  m Ilumu -    im u4                                                  - mm-r
m    w~                      am. WM M             uo
==Xm_MI"= Mv_
-   -
J.~Irou- 6SIO'NI   1V001YVV



vq,T Oro   mpsn   a.1owe""   sMO              * I
tI     el U    Ttttt 919t   109t  0m    1111    DOMt            t9t9      6"          09        Om01      09m       it8"
688    91t-   cmZgOtZ      6       66 C9tO           1TT       Z309       teat       9o0f       0         Ica        3tU        1    1
Ctv   0       It?                 Tot                   60        0         30        £0t            1M
9091  o00      091                91        t0          0ot 0               O9       om            Om1
tOE a         tot                 lin       "      t    9         0    X t             "             O
ta an in Sts  utt  wZe1  o                                       tt          "a       isc   at  t=    9t8    Z08m
o     ag 09    0tto                         069                                            93. 01 I pi
633   00   19 6pi9                          £11         no9       0         069       31             93
080?  098    031Z                 w6n       911         95        1o0      C608    a£n               £33
to6   OC    t9                   9£?       U*           T0       0         0an       "3               3
inn     e9-   "99   9961   99 £      "t 6    o9 0     on        9m        11tZ        06        91         MI9    691        mw
f91   00?    961                  oi1       oi1        0U        0         £6        1tt            6
$9    0c      9gt                 at        tol         Z8Ct      at        Lat       amt            "
969   0       w0                  t3t       10£         t801      3C        £1        631            to3
993   0       99                  g0t       911         £03       0         eg        9              1t
n/1  '1  ran  on                      .n._
*/     on /1                 so    To       '/1 *    un E       on        *n/1          1        UR        ^ 
3so   1  I OIIVI"=$    MM=033    IMOS  0133310  UV=                    co=-C         WZOZ         =  I0333   wit   6min-03    mm
wm   usu __no    o2ns m M O
UAF459-qU3W   115.
WZCOUd IxNMId              g IwM uu iw
' 09



- 61 -
mm
WAIM        AMto         state        Prwfwt botIttdv  row        Pr1vt bIlvidaSi Pam          1grItt.mt row"'
oil It11t    Pwm/                 (.A.C)                        CL.A.I)
he         hie           ha sbJfarmuso.6ts            ha      U@.Fanmg           he    no laiv's
1TGNR        1498         24            490   203         40                                    961       1610
DOMU         2411         52          1I3    351          ST        41          6              1296       170
moguls       236                        50    154         33        29         17102                      19
TDTM.   6458         76           225    70          132       70         23              4062       4608
/a tNOM and 11DM feaeardi Station.



- 62 -
Uab2 11
SAHAR REGIONA  DEVELOPMEN  PROJECT
STAFF APPARISAL UEPORT
SuDervision Plan
SuDervision Input into Kev Activities
Approx.          Activity           Expected Skill         Staff Input
Dates                                Requirements             (SW)
FY91       - Review of bidding            - Engineering               3.0
05/1991     documents and procurement    - Procurement
plan;
- Review of design
FY92       - supervision mission          - Engineering               6.0
12/1991     (Project Launching)           - Procurement
- Agronomy
- Extension
FY92       - Supervision Mission          - Engineering               6.0
05/1992    - Working Program              - Training
- Studies                      - Procurement
- Training
- Bid evaluation
FY93      Two supervision Missions        - Engineering               8.0
- Execution of works           - Procurement
- supply of equipment          - Credit
- Drilling of wells
- Master Plans
FY94      Two Supervision Missions        - Engineering               6.0
- Supply of pumps              -P Agronomy
- Studies                      - Extension
- Extension
FY95      Mid-term review                 - Engineering               8.0
Two Supervision Missions       - Economics
- Operation of works           - Credit
- Training                     -Environment
- On-farm development
FY96      Supervision Mission             -Engineering                3.0
09/1995   -Agricultural develop.          -Agronomy
-Extension
-06M1 of works
FY97      Supervision Ilssion             -Engineering                6.0
-Prepararion of PCR            -Economics
-Agronomy



- 63 -
SNAMR  REGIOIAL DELONNET PROE
STAFF A_PAISL REOT
cosT REI0VEcwY /a
form A  FomE
Faro A
Form Site11
ruzw of Farms                                  2284      12459
_   .**DA-'000------
1.  Gross value of Production /b                   41.9      36.3
2.  Net Cash incme  (before financing) /c          41.7      36.2
Leos:
3.  Depreciation of Farm Assets id                  2.9       2.9
4.  tIpited Value of Family Labor /e                3.0       3.6
5.   Imputed Value of Nanagement If                 4.2       3.6
6.   Kimputod Retum on Capital Jg                   0.4       0.4
7.  Allowance for Risk /h                           2.1       1.8
8.  Equals: Rent/Surplus                           29.1      23.9
9.  Rent as X of Net Cash Income (8:2)             69.aX     65.9%
100K of O & N and 100I of Investmnt Costs
10. Land Betterment Ley /1                         21.5      19.4
11. Rent Recovery Index  10:8)                     73.9K     81.3X
12. Net Cab Inoe Recavery Index (10:2)             S1."      SS."
100o of O  N and 25S  of Iniestm nt Costs
13.  Land Betterment Levy                           5.6       5.1
14.  Rent Recovery Index (13:8)                    19.2X     21.3X
15.  Net Cash Income Recovery Index (13:2)         13.4X     14.0X
/a      These calculations were originally dane at an exchange rate of USS1.0   B DA; with an
exchange rate of US*1.0 a 16 DA the nominol amounts would change, but the conclusions an
ineremental farm profitability, returns to labor, and the affordability of cost recovery
remin uncharged.
lb      Total incrementel value with Project at full development
Incremental producetion costs deducted from gross icman include water charges (farmers
manage the wells themselves) and exclude maintenanme charges for infrastructure.
Incremental cost are low In both farm cases because of the reduction In on-farm
mnintenance.
/d      At 20X of initial investment cost (depreciation over 5 years).
/e      Valued at 100 DA per day
/f      Valued at 10Q of Net Incremental Cash Income
/0      Valvad at 10% of Or-Farm Equfty Investment
lh      Valued at 5X of Gross Vatue of Production
/1      Investment cost per has For farm model A, GA 180,SOO, for farm model  , DA 162,000,
recovered over 20 years at 10S (recovery factor .11?47).
Armuet mintonanca cost per ha taken at full development:
OPIOR's costs for:               _        -
personmel               2,714,000
vehicles                  629.000
equipment                1,174,000
off ice equipet.            C51300
Total           4,S30,000/15,000 he a DA 302/ha



- 64 -
SAHARA_RRGIONAL DEVELOE6m= PROJECT
8SAF AZ3&RALJ uU
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Projet de Developpement des Regions Sahariennes-Rapport de
Preparation; FAO/CP 9.15.1989;
2.    Projet do Reamenagement des Oasis de l'Oued R'hir-Rapport
d'Identification; FAO/CP 2.18.1988;
3.   Actualisation de l'Etude des Ressources en Eau du Sahara
Septentrional; UNDP July 1983;
4.    Projet de Developpemnt des Regions Sahariennes; Rapport de
Nission; N. Seadoun; April 1990;
5.   Etude du R6am nagement et de l'Extenslon dos Palmeraies de l'Oued
R'hir. Synthese. TESCO-VIZITERV; April 1989



- 65 -
4dw*0rAw*                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNART I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALGERIA
SAHARA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imlmmentatfon Scheuhle
Component                                       1991       1992      1993       1994      199S       1996
1. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMEWT
-Stt'4thening of COARS                                      -__                             __
-Streothening of ITOAS
-Stregthenfne of AURN-OR 
-Stregthening of Extension Services
-Streogthesifng of ITAS
-Creation if PM)U
-Creation of OPIOR
-Vehicles
Construction Equipment
-Miscellaneous Equipment and Supplies
2. REHABILITATION OF OASES
.Deep welts
-Safety Stock
Pumping Equipment
Electrification
-Irrigation and Drainage Works
3. ON FARM DEVELOPMENT
4. STUDIES, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING
-Studies
Planning Studies
Specific Studies
-Technical Assistanee
Training
Abroad
In Algeria
******    Procurement, consultation, preparation of contracts
Delivery, execution
Sourcet World Sank Appraisal Mission



- 66 -
SAKOPSAR.OR6                                                                                              CWG 
STAFF APPRS L REPRT
SAHARA REGICNAL pV ELORIERT PRO3EC
oRGANIZATION AND "hAAGNEUT
PHU/CaDmS
-The supervision and monitoring of the Project implementation
-The coordination of all Project-related activities
-The coordination of the recruitment of consultants
-The coordination and assistance in preparing procurement documents and invite bids
-The coordination and assistance in preparing the separate accounts for the Project
withdrawal applications and statement of expenditures
-Preparation of the plans, schedules and records of the Project
*   CDARS                      .    ITDAS                            AGID.    DDARA
-Prepare an agriculture        -Implementation of applied       -Procure and supervise         -Implement the
development strategy;          research program;                the execution and              extension serv.
equipment of deep             program;
-Recruit services,             -Prepare techn. specs for         wells;
supervise preparation of       equip;
plans/studies                                                  -Supervise execution of
-Implement its training          irrigation and drainage
-Implement its trainning        program;                         works;
program
-Assist in the
-Promote CTEE activities;       implementation of the
extension serv. program;
-Monitor soil salinity
levels;
*   ANRH/DRS                   .   OPIOR                        .   FARMERS                    .    ITAS
-Assessment of ground          -Procure construction            -Operate and maintain the    -Provide training to
water resources and            equipment and safety             irrigation and drainage        the extension staff.
setting up of a                stocks;                          works at farm level;
monitoring system for the
use of those resources        -Maintain the main               -Pay for major repairs of
and of levels of water         drainage infrastructure;         these works and
salinity,                                                       participate in the cost
-Assist farmers in               of maintaining the
-Implement its training         repairing pumping                common drainage systems;
program;                       equipment;
-Participate in tbe
-Assist farmers in               extension program;
cleaning and constructing
farm drains;
-Make on-farm equipment
available to Project
farmers;
Source: World Bank Appraisal Mission



_iBRD 223
ALGERIA                                                                                               TOUGGOURT
SAHARA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        3                                 0 A-
PROJECT AREA                                                                           A                           T Via."
h3iited Arm:                            9  NatioICopioil                   -      ntrnconoi Sovndcry        30-                                                                    * o
R4yiolitSd unndorlho                  0   ls and V llCUA                                                            A i G Et I A )
FtrReho6iifftio.                        R moilnsds RC.&                                                                           2-                             \         |Sidi Sh-on
t    Hydrellic Sod. Downdorie                 Ccnols RDmeinmS                                                 2-\                /     2/ 
O\eds        
SH- 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         0
M'GHAIER                                                                                                                                                                                     nflF  M GHAIER
SH-9
Zoo,,io Sidi
Bobn ri
Touggmfr
DJAM2AA                 Jo                                   i0                                          {Jhi              TIIKOMIDER5o
ios    SH78
En N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sd I
KTIFGGOURT     0       SH 7 4E9ItA
/  r H  r  rSrG
TOUGGOURT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



