Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3405 AL
(Sahara Regional Development Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 6, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3405 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS: (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "Project Area" means the Oued R'hir valley located in the northern Sahara 
region of the Borrower's territory;
      (b)   "Study on Water Resources in the Sahara" means the study dated July 1983 
carried out by the United Nations Development Program on the water resources in the 
northern Sahara region of the Borrower's territory;
      (c)   "Project Area Agency" means the agency to be established by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (d)   "CDARS" means the Borrower's Commission for the Agricultural Development 
of the Sahara Regions (Commissariat au Developpement de l'Agriculture des Regions 
Sahariennes), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 86-92, 
dated April 22, 1986;
      (e)   "Project Execution Entities" means the following departments or agencies 
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part thereof: (i) 
Agence Nationale de Realisation et de Gestion des Infrastructures Hydrauliques pour 
l'Irrigation et le Drainage, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's 
Decree No. 87-181, dated August 18, 1987; (ii) Agence Nationale de Ressources 
Hydrauliques, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 81-167, 
dated July 25, 1981, as amended by the Borrower's Decree No. 87-129, dated May 19, 
1987; (iii) Direction de l'Hydraulique, established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 90-328, dated October 27, 1970; (iv) Direction des Services 
Agricoles, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 90-195, 
dated June 23, 1990; (v) Institut de Technologie de l'Agriculture Saharienne, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 71-255, dated October 
19, 1971; and (vi) Institut Technique de Developpement de l'Agronomie Saharienne, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 86-117, dated May 6, 
1986;
      (f)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower Central Bank (Banque d'Algerie), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 
1990; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-seven million dollars 
($57,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
Page  3
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
            (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound 
agricultural, environmental, administrative, financial, economic and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to establish and 
Page  4
thereafter maintain a Project Area Entity, all in accordance with the provisions of 
the Borrower's Law No. 88-01, dated January 12, 1988, and its Decrees Nos. 85-260 and 
85-261, dated October 29, 1985, charged with the responsibility for operating and 
maintaining the main drainage network and the principal extraction systems from the 
deep acquifer in the Project Area, and for providing repair and maintenance services 
to farmers in the Project Area.
      Section 3.03. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall maintain the Project Execution Entities, and shall take all 
necessary measures to ensure that each of said entities in staffed with the requisite 
personnel and is provided with adequate resources.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
            (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
      Section 4.02. In order to ensure the balanced and environmentally sound 
development of the northern Sahara region of the Borrower's territory, the Borrower 
shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that:
Page  5
      (a)   The use of the groundwater resources in said region shall be planned in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Study on Water Resources in the Sahara;
      (b)   All future development of said region shall be undertaken on the basis of: 
(i) the development plans referred to in Part A(4)(b) of the Project; and (ii) the 
program to be developped and carried out under Part A(2)(a) of the Project, in respect 
of monitoring and managing ground water resources in said region; and
      (c)   Prior to the preparation and carrying out of said development plans and 
program: (i) the further development of irrigation systems within said region shall be 
limited to the land areas previously allocated; and (ii) the allocation of new lands 
for irrigation purposes shall be regulated so as to ensure consistency with the 
exploitable potential of the water resources in said region pursuant to the 
recommendations of the Study on Water Resources in the Sahara.
      Section 4.03. In order to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the 
irrigation and drainage systems included in the Project Area, and the recovery of a 
reasonable portion of the costs associated with said systems from the farmers and 
other beneficiaries of said systems, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   Take all measures necessary to ensure that the contracts for the 
rehabilitation of each date palm plantation shall be awarded only after arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank shall have been concluded between the Borrower, through the 
Project Area Agency, and the beneficiaries of the irrigation and drainage systems in 
respect of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the area subject of each such 
contract, so as to ensure the proper operation and maintenance by said beneficiaries 
of said systems and the recovery from said beneficiaries of the costs referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section which are allocable thereto, all in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph;
      (b)   (i) Establish and, through the Project Area Agency, collect, commencing 
not later than December 31, 1996, charges sufficient to recover (A) from the 
beneficiaries of the drainage network, included in the Project Area, which is common 
to more than one oasis, not less than 100% of the recurrent costs of operating and 
maintaining said network, and (B) from the beneficiaries of the well drilling and 
construction works and related drilling and pumping equipment and irrigation and 
drainage works, carried out under Part B of the Project, a reasonable part of the 
investment costs of said works; and (ii) to that end, furnish to the Bank, not later 
than December 31, 1992, for its consideration and comment, the proposed schedule of 
such charges to be applied and collected as aforesaid, together with any explanatory 
material, data or other information pertaining thereto which may be reasonably 
required by the Bank; and
      (c)   Until such time as the charges referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section are established, provide or cause to be provided to the Project Area Agency 
financial and other resources adequate to enable it to properly operate and maintain 
the main drainage system included in the Project Area.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have established the Project Area 
Entity referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions 
thereof.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  6
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy
            Immeuble Mauritania
            Place du Perou
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular
              Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
 Regional Vice President
 Middle East and North Africa
                        DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF
                          ALGERIA
                        By /s/ Nourredine Y. Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               37,000,000        70%
Page  7
(2) Goods                     12,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Consultants'               3,000,000        100%
    services and
    training
(4) Unallocated                5,000,000
         TOTAL                57,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in developing: (1) the 
northern Sahara region of its territory, in an environmentally sound manner; and (2) 
institutional capabilities relating to the development planning of, and the management 
of water resources in, said region.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development
(1)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower's capabilities in the 
planning of agricultural development in its Sahara region;
(2)   Developing and implementing a program to monitor and manage: (a) the quality and 
quantity of ground water resources in the Sahara region; (b) soil salinity in the 
Project Area; and (c) the quality of water flowing through the drainage collectors in 
the Project Area.
(3)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower's applied agricultural 
research programs and agricultural extension and related training programs, with 
particular reference to the Project Area.
(4)   Carrying out of a program to: (a) define a general strategy for the agricultural 
development of the Sahara region; (b) prepare and implement development plans for the 
northern Sahara region, based, inter alia, on suitable environmental assessments of 
such region; and (c) develop detailed proposals for the further development of the 
Project Area.
(5)   Provision of equipment and vehicles required for the carrying out of Parts A (1) 
through A (4) of the Project.
(6)   Staffing and equipping of, and provision of vehicles to: (a) the Project Area 
Agency; and (b) the CDARS for the monitoring and coordination of Project 
implementation.
Page  8
(7)   Provision of training to staff of the Project Execution Entities for the 
carrying out of the Project.
Part B:     Rehabilitation of Oases in the Oued R'hir Basin
      Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate date palm plantations in the Project 
Area, consisting of:
(1)   Drilling of wells and provision of related pumping equipment and installations, 
and closure of deteriorated and non-operational wells.
(2)   Rehabilitation and upgrading of irrigation and drainage networks and related 
service roads.
(3)   Provision of equipment and vehicles required for the carrying out of Part B of 
the Project.
Part C:     On-farm Development
      Provision of farm machinery and implements to be made available to farmers in 
the Project Area under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
* * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
      beginning January 15, 1997          
2,375,000
      through   July 15, 2008
_____________________________
*
The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Page  9
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) appli-
cable to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to one million 
dollars ($1,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to five hundred thousand 
dollars ($500,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  10
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or more; and (ii) each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars 
($150,000) or more; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of twenty percent (20%) is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants: 
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles 
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two million 
dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  11
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall develop the programs, included in Part A (2) (b) and A (2) 
(c) of the Project, to monitor soil salinity and the quality of water collected in the 
drainage collectors within the Project Area, so as to ensure that said programs are 
operational not later than June 30, 1993.
Page  12
2.    The Borrower shall develop the program, included in Part A (2) (a) of the 
Project, to monitor the quality and quantity of groundwater resources so as to ensure 
that said system is operational not later than December 31, 1993.
3.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the development 
plans, included in Part A (4) (b) of the Project, shall be prepared not later than 
December 31, 1994.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out the well closure program, included in Part B (1) of 
the Project, to ensure the closure, not later than December 31, 1996, of all 
deteriorated and non-operational wells in the Project Area.
