Report No. 1 059-MOR                                                            l
Appraisal of a Third Education
Project in the Kingdom of
Morocco
February 25, 1976
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction aid Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00      =       Moroccan Dirham (Dh) 4.00
Dh 1.00      =      US$0.25
Measures
1 m2         =       10.764 sq. ft.
1 km2=              0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare    =      2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......         ....................     i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ....................................                 1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND ...............................                 2
Physical Environment and Population             ...............   2
Economic Development ....................                         2
Socio-economic Development Strategy ..............                3
Employment Opportunities and Manpover
Requirements ........       ...........................         4
III.   EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT ....           ...........      5
The Present System ..................                             5
Educational Issues ................... .                          6
Educational Development Strategy ...............                  7
Education and Rural Development ..............                    8
Education Finance ........        .........................       9
IV. THE PROJECT ..............                                          10
Objectives    ........................................           10
Primary Schools           ..............................   11
Secondary Schools ............ .. ..............           12
Teacher Training College ...................       ..      13
Computerized Data Processing Unit ............             14
Hotel Training School .......... .. ............           14
Hotel Training Centers .......... .. ...........           15
Rural Development and Extension Training
Center      .....................................        15
College of Public Health .....................             16
Medical Technicians Training Unit ............             17
Health Staff Training Centers ...............       .      17
Engineering Designs ..........................         ....      17
Wechnical Assistance ............... ...............             18
Cost of the Project ................ ...............             19
Financial Plan           ............  21
Implementation ...............................             21
Procurement ..        ................................     23
Disbursements         ................................     23
This document has a rstncted distibution and nmy be used by recipsets only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be ditched witbout World Bank a.ntmizon.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
V.   RISKS AND BENEFITS ................. ..............        23
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .       ...      25
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   The Education and Training System
Chart 1  -    Organization of Ministries of Education
Chart 2   -    System of Public Education
Chart 3   -    Education Pyramid 1973-1974
3.   Implementation Problems in the First and Second
Moroccan Education Projects
4.   Overall Projection of Manpower Requirements 1973-1985
5.   Enrollment Growth in Formal Education 1970-75
6.   Public Expenditures, Education and Training 1970-75
7.   Capital Budgetary Allocations to Training 1973-75, Government
Ministries other than Ministries of Education
8.   Actual and Projected Enrollments 1974-1985,
Ministries of Education
9.  Projection of Public Expenditures on Education,
Ministries of Education, 1975-1985
10.   Estimated Recurrent Expenditures for Formal Schooling, 1985
11.   Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and
Use Factors in Project Institutions
12.   Schedule of Technical Assistance
13.   Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
14.   Unit Capital Costs and Area per Student
15.   Contingency Allowances
16.   Implementation Schedule
17.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



GLDSSARY
Adjoint technique                        - agricultural extension agent
Agent technique                          - assistant agricultural extension agent
Baccalaureat                             - secondary learning certificate
Cadristes (Ministry of Health)           - higher level health staff including
medical technicians, health educators,
health inspectors
Carte scolaire                           - school mapping
Centre Pedagogique Regional (CPR)        - Secondary Teacher Training College
Cercle                                   - small local government administrative
unit between a "commune" (village) and
a province in size
CRAFA (Centre Regional d'Animation
et de Formation Agricole)              - Young Farmers Regional Training Center
Ecole Regionale d'Instituteurs (ERI)   - Primary Teacher Training College
Enseignement originel                    - traditional education (Islamic)
Infirmier d'etat                         - state registered nurse
Ingenieur d'Application                  - applied engineer
Ingenieur d'Etat de Conception           - design engineer
Multi-grade teaching                     - more than 1 grade of teaching being
conducted simultaneously in 1 classroom
Promotion Nationale                      - Public  Works Program
Secteur scolaire                         - primary school catchment area served by
a central "mother" center and scattered
"satellite" classes
Shift system (classes de roulement)    - a system in which pupils in a primary
school are divided into 2 groups and taught
at different times of the day






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Basic Data (1974)1/
Total Population                                  15.8 million (1972)
Current Rate of Population Growth                 2.9% p.a.
Per capita GNP (1972)                             about US$270
Literacy Rate                                     about 26%
Primary School Enrollment as a                       2/
Percentage of Age Group 7-11                    547%-
Lower Secondary School Enrollment                    2/
as a Percentage of Age Group 12-15              177/o-
Upper Secondary School Enrollment as a              2/
Percentage of Age Group 16-18                   8%-
Higher Education Enrollment as a                    2/
Percentage of Age Group 19-22                   2%-
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total
Government Expenditures                         16.5%
Central Government Expenditures
on Education as a Percentage of
GDP (1973)                                      6.2%
1/  See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
2/ Including overaged students.






SUNbMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        At Independence in 1956, the new Moroccan government inherited a
francophone-type school system and a national structure of govermlient ser-
vices which were ill suited for the modernizing tasks ahead. Since then,
the main thrusts in education and training have been to expand quantita-
tively and to Moroccanize the school system, to build up local staffing
capacities to sustain essential government administration, and to assist
in training personnel for the private commercial and industrial sectors.
ii.       These tasks, in spite of considerable progress, still remain formid-
able. About half of all primary-aged children are completely unschooled--
mainly those in rural areas and girls in particular--and the program is ill-
adapted to their rural needs. At secondary level, only about 13% of the
relevant age-group is catered for and the prevalent emphasis on literary sub-
jects, notwithstanding efforts to redress the imbalance, continues to exacer-
bate the mismatch with labor market requirements and employment opportunities.
The government is now urgently addressing problems rooted in rapidly growing
urban-rural income and educational disequalities which until the present had
been overshadowed by overwhelming preoccupation with economic growth. Its
efforts to create and implement rural development programs have exposed
serious quantitative and qualitative bottlenecks in the supply of the re-
quired field staff.
iii.      The first and second government education projects, supported by IDA
credits (79-NOR approved in 1965 and 266-MOR approved in 1971), focus on help-
ing to meet the priority need for more and better secondary education as a
basis for producing urgently required skilled manpower (particularly in science
and technology) to service the expansion of the economy. This still remains
urgent and the proposed third project includes schools and training institu-
tions to continue widening and deepening on-going secondary expansionary and
reform programs, as well as skill training for priority economic sectors
(comnmerce, industry, agriculture, tourism).
iv.       In addition, as an important new dimension to the Bank's education
lending program to Morocco, the proposed project would assist the government
to implement its socio-economic policy to alleviate rural poverty through:
support to rural-oriented education and training programs which include ex-
perimental primary schools in the most deprived rural areas, the lessons to
be used as a basis for a major reorientation of primary schooling; and as-
sistance to institutions aimed at developing methodologies and trained field
staff for agricultural extension and farmer training, and for improving
health programs.
v.        The proposed project therefore is concerned with (i) meeting man-
power needs (training for industry, agricultural development, health and
tourism), and (ii) institution building and curriculum reform (general educa-
tion, agriculture and health) which correspond to priorities established in
the national development plan 1973-77. It would include:



- ii -
(a)  construction, furnishing and equipping of:
- 47 experimental primary schools;
- 5 secondary schools in rural areas;
- 1 secondary teacher training college;
- 1 Hotel Training School;
- 4 Hotel Training Centers;
- 1 National Rural Development and Extension Training Cepter;
- 1 College of Public Health;
-  1 Medical Technicians' Training Unit;
- 3 Health Training Centers (including 1 extension);
-    computerization of administrative and educational data for
Ministries of Education (equipment only);
(b)  engineering design for:
- 5 technical colleges;
- 1 technical teacher training college;
-1 Applied Engineering Training Institute;
(c) related technical assistance.
vi.       The technical services of the relevant Ministries, other than the
Ministry of Education, would be directly responsible for the implementation
of their respeccive components. The Project Implementation Unit, established
under the second project, and further reinforced would be responsible for im-
plementing the project items of the Ministry of Education and for backstopping
the other Ministries. Project coordination and liaison with the Bank would
be provided by the Office of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in
the Prime Minister's Office.
viA.      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Detailed lists of
furniture and equipment would be presented for the Bank's review and approval
prior to procurement. These lists would identify all items or categories of
items costing more than US$10,000, the residual items being included in one
miscellaneous category not exceeding US$100,000 for each institution. Items
in the miscellaneous category would be procured under normal government pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and would include price quotations
from at least 3 suppliers. All other items of furniture and equipment would
be procured under ICB which would provide local manufacturers of furniture
and equipment with a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs
duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of C.I.F. price, whichever is lower.
viii.     "he total project cost is estimated at US$59.5 million for which
a Bank loaiA of US$25.0 million is proposed to the Kingdom of Mlorocco.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In October 1965, IDA extended its first credit for an education
project in Morocco (Credit 79-MO)R) to help expand general and specialized
secondary schooling; the credit (US$11 million) assisted the financing of 18
secondary schools. Poor project management, due to a lack of qualified full-
time staff and cumbersome contracting procedures during the early years,
caused the project to be nearly 5 years behind the original implementation
schedule (Annex 3). These difficulties have now been overcome and the proj-
ect was completed in June 1975. 1/
1.02      The second IDA education credit (Credit 266-MDR) was extended in
November 1971. The credit (US$8.5 million) is assisting financing extensions
and science equipment in 6 secondary schools; extensions to a middle-level
forestry school; equipment for 10 industrial and 13 commercial schools; and
construction and equipment for a Higher Teacher Training College, a National
Education Research Institute and 6 Regional Teacher Training Colleges. The
second project was affected by the same delays as the first and is nearly 2
years behind the original implementation schedule. It has, however, been
progressing well for the past two years and is expected to be completed in 1976.
1.03      The proposed third project is designed to assist the government in
(i) meeting urgent manpower needs, and (ii) institution building and curricu-
lum reform. It therefore would help to train manpower for servicing the grow-
ing needs of industry and tourism in the private sector, to build up urgently
required government staff training capacity in agriculture for new rural im-
provement programs, to improve the effectiveness of public health staff train-
ing, to expand and redirect the formal school system and to widen and deepen
the impact of the first two IDA education projects.
1.04      The project was identified by a Unesco mission to Morocco in
September 1973, and a Bank reconnaissance mission discussed findings with the
government and agreed to a tentative project composition in September 1974.
In January 1975, a Bank/Unesco mission discussed the inclusion of additional
items suggested by the government, and following the government's final re-
quest a Unesco preparation mission assisted in preparing a project for Bank
appraisal during February/March 1975. A Bank appraisal mission visited the
country during March/April 1975. It consisted of A. de Capitani (economist,
mission leader), R. C. Prosser (general educator, deputy mission leader),
A. Andonyadis (architect), R. Savas (agricultural educator), H. Cassirer (mass
media specialist, consultant), J. C. Jones (technical educator, consultant),
G. W. Lattin (tourist training specialist, consultant), and F. Rosa (health
training specialist, consultant). The proposed computerization of education
data was reviewed in Washington by Mr. W. Rayfield (Deputy Director, Computing
Activities Department).
1.05      The proposed project was slightly modified during appraisal in agree-
ment with the government. The number of primary schools was reduced from 320
to 47 which would offer a complete primary cycle with experimental curricula;
1/   Disbursements on contracts signed prior to June 30,1975 were permitted
to continue to September 30, 1975.



- 2 -
5 upper-cycle secondary schools were deleted; two teacher training colleges,
originally one each for arts and science, were combined into one; the tech-
nical assistance program was considerably reinforced; and suggestions were
discussed with the government to improve curricula and to increase educational
efficiency.
1.06      On return from the field, it was decided to provide assistance for
engineering design only for 5 technical colleges, the technical teacher
training college, and the Applied Engineering Institute as a basis for a
possible follow-up project in order to shorten the implementation period of
this project and to make it more manageable. In addition, it was decided
to include technical assistance to assist with a study on vocational educa-
tion and training. At the goverament's request, the proposed engineering
design for the National School of Horticulture was deleted from the project.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      The Kingdom of Morocco borders the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean
Sea, Algeria and Spanish Sahara. It has a land area of about 506 thousand
sq. kms., is the most north-westerly country of Africa and forms the Arab
world's western flank. The Atlas mountains, running diagonally across the
country, are a natural dividing line between the more prosperous northwest and
the poorer southeast. The former benefits from a geographical position favor-
able to international trade and an annual rainfall of more than 16 inches as
a basis for both rain-fed and irrigated farming while the southeast is handi-
capped by a lower annual rainfall which decreases to less than 4 inches toward
the Sahara.
2.02      Population totals about 15.8 million (1972) and is growing at a high
2.9% annually with about 55% below 20 years of age. Two-thirds of the popu-
lation are rural, and marked features are high rural-urban migration and
migration from the southeast to the northwest. Three-quarters of the
population are illiterate.
Economic Development
2.03      The Moroccan economy continues to be built on private initiative.
Agriculture is the single most important economic activity accounting in 1974
for about 22% of GDP, 70% of employment and 22% of total export value. Major
limitations to expanding agricultural output include the lack of water, a
shortage of credit to farmers, inadequate farmer technological know-how and
weak training and extension services.
2.04      The economy is on an expansionary path but important issues to be
resolved include a growing income gap between town and countryside and in the
latter between modern and traditional farmers, especially in low-yielding,
rain-fed lands; a continuing high level of unemployment, between 12 and 16%
in large urban centers; and a chronic shortage of middle-level skilled man-
power and managerial know-how.



- 3-
Socio-economic Development Strategy
2.05      The 1973-77 Five Year Plan reflects a fresh government emphasis on
social and income distribution policies as well as providing for export-led
growth to achieve a 7.5% GDP annual growth target. Measures to effect a
more equitable distribution of wealth include increased land distribution
to poor farmers covering some 400,000 hectares; a more progressive tax system;
staple food price and wage regulation; special programs for rural poor in the
most deprived areas; and, increased public spending on social services with
expenditures in the current plan period to more than double those of the pre-
vious period.
2.06      Main priorities to achieve growth include the development of (i)
manufacturing, industry and mining with emphasis on exports; (ii) agriculture,
with a shift in emphasis from dam construction and irrigated farming to rain-
fed agriculture, animal husbandry, on-farm works, farmer training and exten-
sion services; and (iii) tourism, with hotel expansion to more than triple
new capacity achieved in the previous plan period. Among social services,
education remains a high priority and public health programs have enhanced
importance. The current plan budget for health triples that of the previous
and stress is placed on training paramedical staff to man increased numbers
of health centers and dispensaries, especially in rural areas, and to establish
a corps of itinerant rural health workers.



- 4 -
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements (Annex 4)
2.07           Projections of manpower requirements and training needs are diffi-
cult due to lack of data and the very uneven quality of available information.
Those included here are only to indicate broad orders of magnitude and should
be interpreted with caution. Projected annual manpower demand prepared by
the mission is reproduced in Annex 4. The table below summarizes key sector
manpower needs to 1985 together with the system's estimated present output:
ProJocted
1974       Aninual
Estimated   Cutout for       Estinated      Estirated Possible Annual
Projected Average     Output   1st & 2nd       Arnnual Output     Output from Proposed
Annual Demand      from      Education       from Proposed      Project Institutions,
1975-85          Systes    Projects    Education Project  Engireering Design Only
A. Industr-,. Mining and                58.ooo
Construction
Wi) Degree Engineers                 580              16           0               0                        0
(ii) Diplc3 Zrng_r'eers            1,71L)              0           0               0                      90
(i'i) Yiddle-level technicians       5,800             650         500               0                      900
(iv) Sc:'lled and Semi-skilled     L9,880           2,700       2,500               0                        0
B. Agriculture                           1.230
Ci) Degree Engineer                   75              36           0               0                       10
(Ir,-nieurs d'Etat)
(ii) Diploma Engineers                125              50           0               0                       45
(Ing6nicurs d'Application)                                                       1                       1
(iii) Middl-e-level technicians        380             320           0                O/                     701
(Adjoints Te chniques)
(iv) Semi-skilled                     650             223           0                02/                   100-
(Agents Techniques)
C. Hotel and Tourist Industry            2,05°
(i) Professi oral and
Senior Managers                  185              15           0                0                       0
(ii) Middle-level staff               520             250           0              55                        0
(iii) Semi-skilled workers           1,315             500           0             500                        0
D. Health                                2,250
(i) Senior Paramedics                180               5           0               60                       0
(ii) Paramedics                       570             218           0             460                        C
Uiim) Assistant Nurses               1,500             750           0               0                        0
E. Education
(i) Lower Secondary teachers       2,280             811       1,200                0                      85
(1i) Upper Secondary teachers         620              91         300             250                      110
Sourcet Staff eitiut.  21 Not including refresher staff training.
2.08           The projections reveal shortfalls at all manpower levels in these
key sectors. The Moroccan economy has relied heavily in the past on informal
training to service its industrial and commercial expansion but the need now
to increase the supply and improve the quality, particularly at middle and
higher staffing levels, is critical to attain economic growth objectives.
Similarly, the execution of new social and rural-oriented plans and programs
is jeopardized by the shortage of specialized personnel.



- 5-
III. EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
The Present System (Annexes 2 and 5)
3.01      Structure and Management:  An expanding school system underpins
formal learning and is managed by two new ministries: the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education and the Ministry of Higher Education. The reorganiza-
tion, begun in 1974, is not yet fully complete and the ministries share plan-
ning and budgeting departments (Annex 2, Chart 1).
3.02      The system is highly centralized, follows a francophone tradition
and consists of a primary cycle (5 grades), a lower secondary cycle (4 grades),
an upper secondary cycle (3 grades) and higher education (about 4 to 6 years
for first degree courses) (Annex 2, Chart 2). All schooling is under govern-
ment jurisdiction and is compulsory for 7 to 13 year olds. State schools
offering free education predominate. Private schooling at primary and sec-
ondary levels account for only 3.5% and 6% of respective total enrollments.
3.03      Total public and private enrollments have been expanding steadily
over the past 5 years, averaging 4.7% and 8.9% at primary and secondary
levels respectively. Coverage, however, still remains inadequate. Primary,
secondary and higher enrollments, including overaged, represent 54%, 13% and
2% of the respective age-groups. In addition, repeater and drop-out rates
are high throughout the system (see para. 3.09).
3.04      As a result of efforts to expand primary enrollments, schools have
developed a complex organization structure. Two-thirds of all classes (about
75% urban) operate a shift system. Rural schools are frequently physically
fragmented, only 60% offer a complete cycle in one location; the remainder,
due largely to sparcity of population, are split as "sectors scolaires" into
school centers with off-shoot "satellite" feeder classes. In addition, about
16% of all classes, almost exclusively rural, are multi-grade. The primary
curriculum is literary, terminating with a primary leaving examination used
also for selecting secondary school entrants. About 31% of primary leavers
continue to secondary level.
3.05      Two types of secondary schooling are offered, modern and traditional
("originel"), both of identical duration and structure. The former, taught
mainly in French, accounts for about 80% of total enrollments. The lower
cycle provides common general education and terminates with an examination
also used for assessing promotion to the upper cycle. About 53% of candi-
dates are promoted. Specialization begins in the upper cycle and in the
"modern" type, 4 options are offered--arts, science, technical and primary
teacher training. Enrollments in science and technical subjects, 44% and
1.4% of total enrollments respectively, are increasing. The courses (excluding
teacher training) culminate with the baccalaureat examination, the pass rate
averazing around 60% overall.
3.06      Primary teacher training has expanded rapidly to 18 colleges and
about 4,000 trainees. The 2-year course curriculum is adequate, the teacher
cadre is now Moroccanized, and about 70% is fully trained. Upgrading is being



-6-
provided for the remainder. Lower secondary teachers are trained in 13
colleges with 1)330 trainees on 2-year post-baccalaureat courses. About 30%
of the cadre is expatriate and the program is adequately geared to achieve
complete Moroccanization by 1980. Upper secondary teachers are trained in
a new 1-year post-degree course at the Higher Teacher Training College (ENS)
which will have a capacity of 300 and which has 91 first year trainees cur-
rently enrolled. Prior to 1974, pedagogic training for teachers was an
option in degree courses.
3.07      Higher education is conducted in 2 universities and 13 specialized
institutions with almost 80% of enrollments in the Mohamed V University.
First degree (license) courses usually last 4 years (arts, science and en-
gineering). Enrollments in science and engineering are particularly low--
about 6% and 1% of total enrollments respectively compared to 80% arts and
social science and 13% medicine.
Educational Issues
3.08      Over the past 2 decades, the school system has maintained a rapid
rate of expansion, achieved a Moroccanized primary teaching force and intro-
duced Arabic as the main language of instruction in primary schools. While
this creditable performance, however, was being realized, problems became
increasingly urgent concerning: (i) efficiency; (ii) the urban/rural dis-
tribution of educational opportunities; (iii) low enrollment of girls; and
(iv) ill-adapted curricula for mass learning and for evolving technological
needs. In addition, in spite of past efforts, at least half of primary aged
children remain completely unschooled, less than 2 in 10 of those attending
school complete 4 years, and the vast pool of youth and adults remaining with-
out basic education skills is reflected in the 75% national illiteracy rate.
3.09      Internal Efficiency:  Constraints to schooling expansion are di-
rectly related to its low efficiency. At primary level, repeater and drop-
out rates are excessive, averaging 32% and 4.5% (excluding 5th grade) res-
pectively over the cycle. At present, 9 pupil/years are required to produce
a primary school leaver and 15.4 pupil/years for a secondary school entrant.
The repeater-clogged primary system is due to the teaching of arithmetic in
French from the 4th grade and the burden, especially on rural children, who
do not use French outside the classroom; under-qualified teachers; the effects
of poor multi-grade teaching; absenteeism precipitated by long distances some
children must walk to school; and parental need for assistance on farms and
domestically. At secondary level, efficiency is better but still unsatisfac-
tory. Repetition rates average about 18% for both the lower and the complete
cycle.
3.10      Equity:  The present system favors richer urban areas at the expense
of rural, and boys against girls. The urban illiteracy rate is 54% as compared
to 87% rural; urban Rabat and Casablanca provinces both record complete enroll-
ment of the primary age-group compared to only one-third enrollment for rural
Ouarzazate, Agadir and Marrakech provinces. The fully-qualified primary
teacher distribution is skewed against rural areas, only 20% are underquali-
fied in Rabat province compared to 82% in Ouarzazate. The proportion of girls
in primary schools is about 36% of total primary enrollments, only a fractional



improvement over the past 7 years from the 1968 percentage of 32.5. A marked
variation also exists between female urban and rural primary enrollments.
Rabat and Casablanca provinces average 43% and 46% female of their total en-
rollments respectively while rural Ouarzazate averages only 9.7%. Causes
are complex and compounded by socio-economic, demographic and cultural fac-
tors. Opportunity costs of schooling to poor rural parents are high, addi-
tional monetary costs (books and clothing) are a heavy burden and cultural
and religious tradition militates against the schooling of girls.
3.11      Relevance and External Productivity:  Primary schooling is conven-
tionally literary with 76% of available time allocated to Arabic, French and
religion, and only 16.5% and 1.5% to arithmetic and science, respectively.
Little attention has thus far been paid to adapting structures, methods or
curricula to local conditions with the result that rural children, in par-
ticular, leave school attitudinally and skill-wise ill-equipped for adult
life. Negative effects of schooling include the up-rooting of children from
their home environment, inculcating unattainable aspirations, with resultant
frustration, leading to a decline in parental social demand for schooling in
some areas. Secondary and higher expansion has been paralleled with an over-
emphasis on arts subjects to the detriment of technical preparation which has
increased the disequilibrium between employment expectations and the avail-
ability of jobs.
Educational Development Strategy
3.12      The National Development Plan 1973-1977 recognizes the above issues
and proposes reasonable steps to meet them. The broad strategy is based on
a research and development program to prepare a major overhaul to be imple-
mented in the next plan period. The Plan calls for specific targets to be
met and programs are in hand to achieve the following:
(i) Primary Level: Complete enrollment of the 7-year-old cohort
by 1995; rationalization of the rural school network based
on the first school mapping inventory; curriculum reform to
provide a better understanding of the rural environment and
a stronger bias toward math and science; measures to improve
efficiency including the progressive abolition of the shift
system and multi-grade teaching, and increased teacher and
inspector in-service training; a repetition limitation to
two opportunities in the cycle; and the expansion and
nutritive improvement of school meals.
(ii)  Secondary Level:  A greater emphasis on technology and science
through the introduction of an "initiation to technology"
course in the lower cycle and enrollment of two-thirds of new
upper cycle pupils in science subjects by 1977; Moroccaniza-
tion of the teaching service through the existing teacher
training program for lower cycle teachers and the development
of new training colleges (Centres Pedagogiques Regionaux) for
the upper secondary teachers; and arabization of the language
of instruction.



-8-
(iii)  Technical and Vocational:  Coordination of vocational and
technical education programs of all major sponsors; and the
development and expansion of technical schools and technical
teacher training.
(iv)  Out-of-School Basic:  Preparation of a national plan by a new
coordinatory body for literacy teaching to bring together the
main public and private agencies involved in the field and to
launch a major effort to reduce illiteracy.
3.13      Though early yet, the first 2 years of the Plan mark progress
through the setting-up of research groups to blueprint educational experi-
mentation, experimental work in maths and science in selected primary schools,
new technological induction courses in 5 secondary schools (lower cycle),
and expanding teacher training and upgrading. On the other hand, new primary
school enrollment has fallen short of the Plan target by some 10%. On the
whole, the present strategy conforms to the country's evolving socio-economic
needs though the following merit more intensive consideration: the relation-
ship between the primary school and the local community; measures for training
primary school dropouts and the unschooled to integrate them more effectively
into the labor force and national life; and, steps to reduce the high primary
and secondary repetition rates.
Education and Rural Development
3.14      The 1973-77 Plan places a new emphasis on rural development through
the progressive regionalization of administration and development programs.
New "economic" regions have been created along with a special Rural Develop-
ment Fund and an "ex-colon" land distribution program. These new measures
could provide a framework and incentive for interlinking rural development
projects with education and training programs. At village level, in addition
to rural primary schools, a thin spread of training centers are operated by
the Ministries of Agriculture, National Assistance and Artisanat, Labour and
Social Affairs. The Ministry of Health, through an expanding coverage of rural
dispensaries and health centers, is stressing preventive medicine and health
education. However, all out-of-school programs are embryonic and small in
relation to the needs and size of the rural population, although they provide
a basis for expansion and experimentation. The ministries concerned are cur-
rently and justifiably beginning to strengthen their field staff capacities,
spread of physical facilities and their methodologies. The proposed project
items to assist field staff training and improve methods for agricultural
extension and health education will benefit this process. The assistance
to experimental primary schools offers an opportunity to try out new ways of
integrating basic education with local life, and the extension of secondary
schooling opportunities for rural girls will assist the government's policy
of improving female access to education.



- 9 -
Education Finance (Annexes 6 through 10)
3.15      Between 1971 and 1975, government expenditures on education and
training trebled, averaging a 29% annual increase in monetary terms, and
currently accounting for about 6% of GDP. In spite of this high annual in-
crease, however, the proportion of the total government budget spent on edu-
cation has been falling in recent years, from 20.9% (1973) to a low 13.4%
(1975). Another significant feature of the trend in recent educational ex-
penditures is the very rapid increase in the capital budget compared to re-
current. While Dh 66 million of the total education budget was allocated
to capital account in 1970, the allocation had increased more than twelve-
fold to Dh 672 million by 1975. In relation to the total government capital
budget, the proportion allocated to education rose from 6% to about 11% in
the same period. This increase can be accounted for primarily by the rapid
expansion in teacher training facilities.
3.16      Recurrent expenditures on primary education are low compared to
other levels of education. About 45% (1975) of the Ministry of Education ex-
penditures is for primary schooling compared to 43% for secondary, and unit
costs at primary level are Dh 427 or about 28% of those at secondary level.
Personnel costs account for nearly 94% of primary recurrent expenditures re-
flecting low allocations for teaching equipment and materials.
3.17      In the 1973-77 Plan, it is estimated that by 1977, around 25% of
the national recurrent budget will be allocated to the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education and the Ministry of Higher Education. Assuming that
this, representing about 6% of GDP, would be a ceiling for these Ministries
current expenditures and that a 6.8% GDP long-term growth rate is maintainable
as targeted in the Plan, by 1985 it should be feasible to enroll about 85% of
7-year-olds (the Plan aims at 100% by 1995),continue the present lower and
upper secondary new intake annual expansion by 12% and 5.5% respectively, and
significantly improve efficiency and quality. This takes into account an
increase in primary level unit cost (10%) for teaching equipment to support
the "induction into manual work" program and for other subjects; and a re-
duction of secondary level unit costs due primarily to the phasing out of
expatriate teachers. These projections, just one set of possibilities, are
described in Annexes 8, 9 and 10. They demonstrate that the government,
without increasing the relative share of GDP devoted to schooling, can sig-
nificantly extend benefits to school-aged children and simultaneously improve
the quality, efficiency and equity of the system.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) support the gov-
ernment's policy to reorient primary education to meet more effectively the
learning needs of rural children and to reduce the present disparities in the
distribution of primary schools between rural and urban areas; (ii) support
the ongoing reform of general secondary education which aims at introducing
a prevocational technology subject for both boys and girls in the first cycle
of secondary education and to reorient the second cycle toward science and
technology; (iii) improve the administration and management of the education
svstem by introducing computerized techniques; (iv) assist in meeting urgent
manpower requirements, improve training methods and accelerate the Moroccan-
ization of the labor force in priority sectors of the economy (industry and
tourism) and in two key social sectors (education and public health); and
(v) promote in-service training of agricultural staff in extension methods
and experiment with new extension techniques, including mass media, as a
first step toward the preparation of comprehensive regional schemes of non-
formal rural education.



- 11 -
4.02         Specifically  the project would  comprise  construction,  furnishing
and equipping or engineering design of the institutions listed below, and
related technical assistance (further details are given in Annex 11):
Estimated      Accommodation
Student Places          Annual       Student      Staff
Type of Institution            Grades   New        Replacement    Output        Boarding    Housing
The Formal System
47 Primary Schools                     1-5      9,400            -          1,600             -      272 -
5 Secondary Schools                   6-12    6,000             -          1,300- ;     1,250        25 -/
1 Teacher Training College              15       275            -            250          275         4
(general subjects)
I Computerization Unit                n.a.      n.a.           n.a.         n.a.         n.a.          -
Skill Training (Industrial)
5 Technical Colleges                 10-12    4,170             -          1,325         2,780
(engineering design only)
1 Applied Engineering Institute    13-15         240            -             90          165          -
(engineering design only)
1 Technical Teacher Training         13-15       466            -            195          4b6           _
College and
Demonstration School               10-12       390            -            100          260          -
(engineering design only)
Tourism
1 Hotel Training School              10-12       180            -             55          180           -
4 Hotel Training Centers             10          520            -            500           520          -
Agriculture
1 Rural Development and             Ungraded    120             -          2,400           120
Extension Training Center
Health
1 College of Public Health           12-15         -           780           315          400           -
1 Medical Technicians Trng.Unit      12-13        80            -             35             -          -
6/           6/            7/
3 Health Training Centers            12-13         -           120-          110           80-         _
1/ Principals' housing and accommodation for 5 staff. 2/ Includes lower and upper cycles with
annual outputs at about 700 and 600 respectively.  3/ Includes 20 staff houses and 5 guardian
houses. 4/ 1 director's house and 6 maintenance staff houses.  6/ No allowance for center at
Agadir where only boarding facilities are provided.  7/ For Agadir center.  8/ Includes 3 staff
houses and 1 guardian house.
4.03         Primary  Schools:   The proposed 47  rural primary schools  (grades  1-5)
would be experimental and form a small but important pilot base to facilitate
the generalization of  reforms  to be implemented  during the  1978-1982 plan pe-
riod. Experimentation would include (i) introducing a new program to increase
the relevance of the curriculum for the vast majority of primary school child-
ren who will not continue into secondary schooling based on a new subject to
initiate senior pupils to simple manual skills; (ii) scheduling more teaching
periods to math and science as a further significant step toward improving



- 12 -
relevance; (iii) a program of new remedial classes and semi-automatic promo-
tion to help improve efficiency; and (iv) the locating of schools in the more
deprived rural areas and providing improved school meals to assist children
traveling longer distances and to achieve a more equitable access to schooling.
4.04      For maximum national impact and to address needs of different rural
locales, the proposed schools would have wide geographic distribution in 36
of the poorest "cercles" with relevant age-group enrollment ratios ranging
from 14% to 28% and covering 9 provinces. 1/ Their location has been deter-
mined on the basis of a "carte scolaire" which includes existing and planned
local school facilities in relation to the current and projected local school-
aged population. Each school would have 5 classrooms, cater for 200 pupils,
offer a full primary education and be designed to be easily replicated in
other rural areas and in such a way that they could eventually become a focal
point for rural and community development. The government has agreed that a
program of remedial classes and semi-automatic promotion would be introduced
in the schools.
4.05      Each school would include a workshop for simple manual skill train-
ing, tools and equipment and a plot of land suitable for basic farming. The
curriculum would include 2 hours a week of "induction into manual work" divided
about equally between basic non-farm and farm skills for pupils in the 4th and
5th grades and a substantial increase over the 5 grades in the time allotments
to maths (about 25% increase) and to science (about 300% increase). Agreement
has already been reached with the government on the outlines of curricula suf-
ficient to enable initiation of architectural designs. The government has
also agreed that detailed syllabi to be developed with the help of a technical
assistance expert in pre-vocational preparation (1 man/year) to be provided
under the loan, would be submitted to the Bank for comment within 18 months
of Loan Agreement signing and that a related experimental teacher training
scheme would be instituted for all teachers in the proposed schools before
their opening.
4.06      Because schools would be located in remote, rural areas, housing at
each school would be provided for 6 staff members but no pupil boarding facil-
ities are envisaged. The government has agreed that the school meals service
would be extended to these schools to provide mid-day meals for not less than
50% of the pupils, offering each pupil a balanced diet in conformity with the
government's new school meal program. The government has also agreed that a
comprehensive evaluation of the proRram would be carried out bv the Educational
Planning Department not later than 5 years after the opening of the schools
and that the results will be communicated to the Bank.
4.07      Secondary Schools (general lycees):  The proposed 5 co-educational
secondary schools (grades 6-12) have been selected for the expansion and de-
velopment of "introduction to technology" in the lower cycle to correct the
1/   El Kalaa, El Jadida, Safi, Al Hoceima, Agadir, Taza, Ouarzazate, Tetouan,
Figuig.



- 13 -
academic bias of curricula. In addition they would intensify science teach-
ing and increase upper cycle science enrollments to meet manpower needs and
to provide more qualified students for the required expansion of higher edu-
cation. The schools would be situated in townships in rural areas and thus
improve rural children's access to secondary education and offer the possibil-
ity of enrolling more rural girls.
4.08      The schools would be located in 5 of the most educationally deprived
provinces, 1/ but within adequate primary leaver catchment areas as has been
determined by the "carte scolaire" which includes existing and planned local
school facilities in relation to current and projected relevant local school-
aged population.
4.09      Each school would enroll about 1,200 pupils, 700 lower cycle and 500
upper cycle, with boarding for about 250 pupils. Workshop facilities would be
provided to enable all lower cycle pupils to take 2 hours/week of "introduction
to technology;" 2 hours/week of general science would be introduced for first
year pupils (grade 6) to bridge science in the primary cycle and science teach-
ing now commencing in grade 7; and at upper secondary level (grades 10-12),
facilities would be provided to help redress the present output imbalance
between arts and science by allocating two-thirds (instead of half) of stud-
ent places to science. The project would provide 2 man/years of technical
assistance for an expert on curriculum design and technology training. Agree-
ment has already been reached with the government on the outline of curricula
sufficient to enable initiation of architectural designs and the government
has agreed that detailed syllabi would be sent to the Bank for comment within
18 months of Loan Agreement signing. Adequate numbers of teachers would be
provided either from the existing output of national teachers or under exist-
ing bilateral arrangements.
4.10      Teacher Training College (Secondary General):  The proposed teacher
training college (CPR) to be located at Meknes would help implement the govern-
ment strategy to Moroccanize the upper cycle secondary teacher staff. The
CPR would offer a 1-year residential special upgrading course ("cycle special")
to fully qualified, carefully selected, lower cycle teachers who have 5 years
teaching experience and who demonstrate that they have achieved the equivalent
of second year university degree academic level. The course would cover the
academic content of third and fourth year university degree curricula in the
selected teaching subjects and pedagogical studies (special teaching methods
and educational psychology). The opportunity will, additionally, provide
professional incentive for lower cycle teachers to upgrade their education,
thus benefiting lower level teaching.
4.11      About 275 trainees would be catered for annually, 100 in arts and
175 in science and math, reflecting the greater need for these latter two
specialisms. An adequate supply of trainees is assured as a program for the
1/   Safi, Agadir, Tetouan, Terfaya, Beni Mellal.



- 14 -
necessary academic upgrading has been in operation for some 3 years. It is
estimated that the implementation of plans under discussion to double the
capacity of the ENS (Higher Teacher Training College) by 1981 together with
the 'cycle special` output would be sufficient to remove dependence on ex-
patriates by 1985 and permit about 5.5% annual growth in new enrollments to
secondary schools.
4.12      Computerized Data Processing Unit:  The Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education at present processes manually an enormous quantity of
essential administration, management and planning data, including recruit-
ment, promotions, transfers (about 30,000 per annum), allowances, retirements,
archive management (over 85,000 individual dossiers), and reports from all
schools with information on students and teachers. The government, with
Unesco's assistance, has studied the need for and current utilization of
data. The proposed assistance would help build up capacity to handle data
more efficiently through a new computer data processing unit.  This will
constitute a first phase of the development of the use of computer tech-
nology as a permanent support to the management of the school system. The
proposed assistance would include technical expertise and a small amount
of equipment to facilitate this first phase.
4.13      The MIinistry will have access to a computer (donated by the Belgian
government) being installed in the Mohammedia School of Engineering.  Only minor
modifications to the machine's configuration will be required to adapt it to the
Ministry's needs.  Proposed equipment therefore would be limited to a terminal
(which can be leased with option to purchase) and supplementary items. Tech-
nical assistance would include 0.5 man/year for a consultant in computer
science to help set up the unit and 1.5 man/years of specialist services for
data analysis and programming. Fellowships (1.5 man/years) would be provided
for training local staff.
4.14      Hotel Training School:  The proposed hotel training school to be lo-
cated in the growing tourist center of El Jadida would supplement the 5 other
regional training schools now in operation. Facilities would be provided for
180 residential trainees, selected from lower secondary leavers. The 3-year
course would train skilled middle-level technicians to service hotel cuisine,
bar, restaurant, reception and general administrative functions. The staff
as well as the facilities would be multi-purpose, thus ensuring their economi-
cal use. The first year is common for all trainees and includes general edu-
cation, foreign language instruction, administration and hotel technology;
during the second and third years, trainees continue general education and
language training but specialize in either "restaurant-reception" or "cuisine"
(50% of students in each). Practical work is emphasized (30% of available in-
school time), trainees are seconded to local restaurants and hotels during
short vacations and are usually attached to hotels or restaurants overseas
between the second and third years.



- 15 -
4.15      The staff training system is, however, embryonic and the loan would
therefore finance technical assistance to backstop the new school's staff and
to train local personnel which would consist of 1 training coordinator (3 man/
years), 1 expert in each of cuisine (3 man/years), restaurant/bar (3 man/years),
and reception and floor services (3 man/years), totalling 12 man/years.
4.16      Hotel Training Centers:  The proposed 4 centers would train semi-
skilled hotel and restaurant staff, and in conformity with the government's
regional policy, would be located in tourist areas of growing importance
(Nador, Beni Mellal, Ouarzazate and Casablanca). The centers would cater
for a combined total of about 520 trainees, typically lower cycle secondary
drop-outs, on a 1-year course: Nador and Beni Mellal, about 120 places each;
Ouarzazate and Casablanca, about 140 places each. The course would consist
of a general education and foreign language component (23% of available time),
hotel science theory (12%), practical work (50%) and 3 months would be spent
attached to local hotels and restaurants. The course would be programmed for
50% of students to concentrate on cuisine-kitchen work, 40% on restaurant and
10% on "etage" work. Under technical assistance, a training coordinator (2
man/years) would be provided to develop curricula and an expert in hotel main-
tenance (2 man/years) would instruct at the center in Casablanca.
4.17      Rural Development and Extension Training Center;  In support of the
government's new efforts to improve earnings of poorer rural families, the
proposed center, part of the National School of Agriculture, Meknes, would
be a backstopping facility to develop and expand extension worker in-service
training, develop mass instructional materials for farmer training, and im-
prove broad extension methodologies to accelerate rural development through
experimentation and new techniques. The center, with tuition and boarding
accommodation for 120, would be organized into 3 units corresponding to these
functions. First, an in-service training unit would organize short refresher
courses, about 2 weeks each, for some 2,400 extension staff annually. Flexi-
ble and varied courses would stress the integration of technical information
with extension methods and would increase the capability of field workers to
communicate with farmers through personal contact and the use of mass media.
4.18      The unit's staff would also develop ways to decentralize in-service
training and, with different regional institutions, organize seminars and
courses adapted to various geographic, agricultural and seasonal conditions.
The second, a technical mass media unit, would produce mass support materials
for farmer training, and equipment would be provided to cover the use of radio,
television, film, photo and graphics with printing contracted to outside
sources. The third, an experimentation, evaluation and testing unit, would
be action-oriented, addressing particularly on-going extension work, changing
farmer attitudes, the interrelationship between extension and other rural
services, baseline surveys, and field evaluation. A part of the Center's
overall function would be to assist in integrated rural development and the
development of new extension methods as part of a system of non-formal educa-
tion and rural development which interrelate agricultural extension with other
development inputs (including schools, health, cooperatives, animation rurale).



- 16 -
The government has agreed that an outline of experimental extension and
training programs consistent with the above functions would be sent to the
Bank for comment within 18 months of Loan Agreement signing.
4.19      The Department of Agricultural Education would administer the Center
under the purview of the National Council for Extension (Conseil National de
Vulgarisation). In addition, a Board with representatives from all depart-
ments of the Ministry of Agriculture and from ministries and officials con-
cerned with rural development would be established to determine program de-
velopment and experimental integrated projects. The government has agreed
that the Board, with membership and functions acceptable to the Bank as de-
scribed above, would be established within 1 year of Loan Agreement signing.
As the Center would be a new departure, a technical assistance team would be
provided with 4 experts on 3-year assignments each for agricultural extension
and training methods, rural sociology, the educational use of media, and the
production and maintenance of audio-visual materials and equipment. Provi-
sion would also be made for 1.5 man/years of short-term consultancy services
and 4 man/years of fellowships for training counterpart staff.
4.20      College of Public Health:  The proposed College of Public Health,
Rabat, would relocate and consolidate into one facility the training of 10
different types of paramedical personnel currently being carried out in dis-
persed schools, often old, unsuitable or rented, and would permit the devel-
opment of a 'health team' approach to public health in both urban and rural
areas. It would also introduce a course in public health and community medi-
cine for medical students in support of the government's fresh emphasis on
these, and conduct in-service refresher courses for public health personnel.
The proposed site would facilitate collaboration with the School of Medicine,
the University Hospital, and the National Center for Family Planning. The
college would enroll about 780 students. Most places (720) would be occupied
by paramedical trainees on 2-year courses (80 health assistants, 120 nurses,
80 psychiatric assistants, 40 physiotherapy assistants, 80 pharmaceutical
assistants, 40 radiology assistants, 40 health statisticians, 80 laboratory
assistants, 40 anaesthetics assistants and 120 cadristes 1/). The remaining
60 places would be allocated to medical students, and 3 consecutive groups of
60 students each would attend a 12-weeks course annually.
4.21      The first year paramedical course would be partially common and in-
clude general education and broad health training for all students (about 33%
of available time) and specialist training (50% practical). The second year
would consist of specialist training (40% theory and 60% practical). The col-
lege would be provided with specialist facilities for statistics, pharmacy,
laboratory and anaesthesiology technicians onlv. Other specialist disciplines
would utilize facilities in the neighboring medical institutions.
1/   Senior paramedics including health inspectors, health visitors, and
social workers.



- 17 -
4.22      Two man/months of consultancy services would be provided for the
revision and completion of existing architectural plans (see para 4.34) for
the college and 4 man/months for the development and organization of the
medical library.
4.23      Medical Technicians Training Unitt  The proposed unit to be located
at Casablanca would train anaesthesiology and radiology technicians to augment
the output of personnel with these specialisms at the proposed College of Pub-
lic Health, Rabat. The unit would enroll 80 post-baccalaureat trainees non-
residentially, 40 in each specialism on a 2-year course to provide an annual
output of about 40 personnel. Curriculum would be identical to that at Rabat
for these two specialisms (see para. 4.21) and practical work would be under-
taken in facilities at the nearby hospital complex which is being expanded in
relationship with the University as a national teaching hospital.
4.24      Health Staff Training Centers:  The proposed new facilities and ad-
ditions for 3 health staff training centers would support the government's
policy to decentralize training of state-registered nurses (infirmiers d'etat)
who typically are responsible for village dispensaries. Four of the 7 "medi-
cal regions" of the country have satisfactory centers. But training in Fez
(northcentral region) is located temporarily in university buildings an in-
convenient distance from the hospital; the new facilities would provide for
120 non-residential trainees at a site near the hospital. In Oujda (eastern
region) the center is temporarily housed in hospital rooms that, if recon-
verted, could cater for about 1,000 patients a year. The proposed new cen-
ter would be near the Oujda hospital and have the same capacity and programs
as Fez. In Agadir (southern region) the teaching facilities at the existing
center (120 trainees) are satisfactory but boarding accommodation for 80
trainees is proposed since the existing provision is inadequate. The schools
would offer 2-year courses after grades 11 or 12 and would produce about 110
trained personnel annually. About 50% of the training is practical in hos-
pitals and the remainder includes nursing theory, clinical work and general
education.
Engineering Designs
4.25      Engineering designs for 5 technical colleges, a technical teacher
training college with a demonstration technical college, and an Applied En-
gineering Training Institute would comprise physical requirements (master
plan, preliminary drawings, equipment lists), and detailed cost estimates
as a basis for a possible follow-up project. The technical colleges and
related teacher training college represent a new departure in skill training
directly for the labor market and 3 man/years of technical assistance in com-
mercial, mechanical and electrical instruction would be provided to assist in
the preparation of curricula and the development of instructional methodologies.
The government has agreed that the designs would be submitted to the Bank for
comment within 18 months of Loan Agreement signing.



- 18 -
Technical Assistance
4.26      In addition to the program of technical assistance described above
under each proposed project item and in para. 4.33 for the project unit, the
project would assist in financing the services of 5 man-years of experts to
help carry out a study of various reform measures to be part of the next na-
tional development plan (1978-1982) that could lead to improved, expanded and
coordinated education and training programs to meet the need for middle-level
skilled manpower for industry and which will take into account the special
education and training needs of primary and secondary school leavers. The
study will be carried out by the Ministry of Planning in collaboration with
the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and the Ministry of Labor.
The total program of technical assistance within the project would total
about 49 man-years of experts' services and 5.5 man-years of fellowships.
The proposed phasing of the program is given in Annex 12.



- 19 -
Cost of the Project
4.27        The estimated cost and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the project are summarized below: 1/
Dirhams (millions)        US$ (millions)        % of Base-
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   line Costs
General education:
47 Primary schools              24.48   10.64   35.12    6.12    2.66    8.78         22.8
5 Secondary schools            29.62   18.52   48.14    7.40    4.63   12.03         31.3
Teacher training
college                       4.07    2.18    6.25    1.02    0.54    1.56          4.1
Computerized data
processing unit               0.25    2.09    2.34    0.07    0.52    0.59          1.5
Skill training:
5 Technical colleges -
engineering design             1.73    1.73    3.46    0.43    0.43    0.86          2.2
Applied Engineering Training
Institute - engineering
design                         0.25    0.25    0.50    0.06    0.07    0.13          0.3
Technical teacher training
college, including demon-
stration school -
engineering design             0.40    0.40    0.80    0.10    0.10    0.20          0.5
Hotel training:
Hotel School                    2.98    2.81    5.79    0.74    0.71    1.45          3.8
4 Hotel training centers       11.39   10.89   22.28    2.85    2.72    5.57         14.6
Training for social and rural
development:
Rural development and
extension training center    3.89    2.85    6.74    0.97    0.71    1.68           4.4
College of Public Health        7.14    3.63   10.77    1.79    0.91    2.70          7.0
Medical technicians' training
unit                          0.41    0.40    0.81    0.10    0.10    0.20          0.5
3 Health staff training
centers                       1.45    0.99    2.44    0.36    0.25    0.61          1.6
Project Implementation:            0.16    1.04    1.20    0.04    0.26    0.30          0.7
Technical assistance:              1.07    6.05    7.12    0.27    1.51    1.78          4.7
Baseline cost                  89.29   64.47  153.76   22.32   16.12   38.44        100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                        8.74    7.54   16.28    2.19    1.88    4.07         10.6
Price increase                 42.60   25.51   68.11   10.65    6.38   17.03         44.3
Sub-total                      51.34   33.05   84.39   12.84    8.26   21.10         54.9
Total project cost            140.63   97.52  238.15   35.16   24.38   59.54
1/  Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 13.



- 20 -
4.28      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
recently awarded contracts for the second education project and on informa-
tion on construction costs in general. The unit costs used for the various
types of construction were estimated according to type of school and regional
differences in unit prices. Equipment and furniture cost estimates are based
on reasonable C.I.F. unit prices for each category of goods adjusted upward
to include cost of inland transportation and installation. Costs per student
place are satisfactory (Annex 14).
4.29      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions. or extensions of professional services equal to approxi-
mately 10% of the estimated costs of civil works, furniture, equipment and
consultant architects fees and 5% of the estimated cost of technical assis-
tance (Annex 15). Price escalation contingency has been calculated for a pe-
riod beginning December 1975 (scheduled date of negotiations), based on antic-
ipated price increases of 14% for the first and 12% for the following 3 years
of implementation for civil works; 10% for the first year and 8% for the fol-
lowing 3 years for equipment and furniture; and 8% for the 4 years of imple-
mentation for technical assistance.  Because price increases have not differed
significantly from European countries and because of difficulties in forecast-
ing future differences, the same rate of price increases has been applied to
both foreign and local cost estimates. During the project implementation
period, prices are expected to increase by about 46% for civil works, 33.5%
for consultant architect fees, 32% for furniture and equipment, and 23.5% for
technical assistance and professional fees of consultants for the engineering
design of institutions appraised but not included in the project. Accordingly,
price increases are estimated at about 40.1% of base line costs plus physical
contingencies.
4.30      The estimated foreign exchange component is about US$24.4 million
equivalent or about 41% of the total project cost. It was calculated as
follows: (i) civil works, 26%; (ii) furniture, 70% 1/; (iii) equipment,
90%; (iv) consultant architect fees, 16%, representing the amount that for-
eign architects employed by Moroccan firms are allowed to export; (v) profes-
sional fees for engineering design of project items appraised but not included
in the project, 50%; and (vi) experts and fellowships, 85%.
4.31      The annual recurrent costs generated by the institutions included
in the proposed project would be about Dh 52.8 million which represents less
than 2% of the projected public recurrent expenditures on education in 1985.
As the government has assigned high priority to these project institutions,
these recurrent costs will be met with no difficulty.
1/   This assumes 50, of total value, with a foreign exchange component of
90%, would be awarded to foreign firms and 50%, with a foreign exchange
component of 50%, would be awarded to local firms. If all furniture
contracts were awarded to foreign firms, the foreign exchange component
of the project cost would amount to US$25.0 million: if all furniture
contracts were awarded to local firms. the foreign exchange component
would be USS23.8 million.



- 21 -
4.32      Financial Plan:  The proposed loan of US$25.0 million would finance
100% of the total estimated foreign exchange, and up to US$600,000 if 50% of
furniture supply contracts are awarded under ICB to local manufacturers. The
distribution by categories of expenditure would be as follows:
Government             IBRD               Total
US$ millions   %   US$ millions   %   US$ millions   %
Civil works                27.65      74        9.70      26        37.35      67.3
Furniture                   0.52      20        2.08      80         2.60       4.7
Equipment                   0.89      10        7.95      90         8.84      15.9
Consultant architects'
fees                      2.16      84       0.41       16         2.57       4.7
Technical assistance        0.39      15        2.24      85         2.63       4.7
Consultants' fees for
engineering prep-
aration                   0.74      50        0.74      50         1.48       2.7
Baseline cost
(including con-
tingencies for
price increases)         32.35      58       23.12      42        55.47    100.0
Physical contingencies      2.19      49        1.88       51        4.07
Total project cost         34.54      58       25.00      42        59.54
4.33      Implementation:  The proposed project involves a multiplicity of
government ministries (Health, Tourism, Agriculture, Primary and Secondary
Education and Higher Education). The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs
in the Prime Minister's Office has therefore agreed that an interministerial
committee would be established under his chairmanship which would meet regular-
ly, at least once every 3 months, to review the progress in implementation,
make decisions as required to expedite the project, and liaise with the Bank.
The existing Project Implementation Unit, established under the second educa-
tion project, would be responsible for the project institutions of the Min-
istries of Education and for backstopping the technical services of the other
Ministries which would be directly responsible for the implementation of their
project institutions. These technical services are competent and experienced
in the administration of building design and construction. The government
has agreed to appoint a senior official in each of these ministries to be
responsible for overall administration of each project item and an architect
or civil engineer with qualifications agreeable to the Bank for architectural
aspects of the project items. The project institutions would represent from
10% to 50% of the ministries' previous workloads and would be within their



- 22 -
planned capacity. In view of the workload that the proposed project would
create, the government has agreed to provide the existinR Project Implementa-
tion Unit with additional staff to include a Programming Officer, an archi-
tect, and a civil works supervisor. The Programming Officer and the architect
would be appointed before the loan would be effective. In addition, the Proj-
ect Unlt would be provided with technical assistance expertise which would
include 1 architect (4 man/years), and short term consultancies for review
of structural, mechanical and electrical designs, preparation of furniture
lists and design, and for the development of building and equipment mainte-
nance procedures (2 man/years).
4.34      The project schools would be designed by consultant architects ac-
ceptable to the Bank and appointed under terms and conditions agreeable to
the Bank. An adequate number of Moroccan architectural firms exist which
employ both local and foreign architects. The village or township in which
each project institution would be located has been agreed (see map) but the
actual sites have not been determined, except for the College of Public Health,
the Medical Technicians Training Unit, the 3 health training centers, and
the Rural Development and Extension Training Center. The government has
agreed that prior to the initiation of the design of the proposed health
staff training facilities, 1/ a survey of the existing buildings and other
hospital facilities and a site plan for the future overall development of
the institutions would be submitted to the Bank for comment within 4 months
of Loan Agreement signing. Similarly, it was agreed that a complete survey
of the existing buildings and other facilities of the Agricultural School,
Meknes, and a plan for the overall development of the site including the
Rural Development and Extension Center would be prepared and submitted to
the Bank for comment within 4 months of Loan Agreement signing. Sites for
all the iastitutions, including those for which engineering designs would
be prepared, would be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to
the Bank and in the cities already agreed. Project items which are replic-
able would have typical and standardized designs developed. These would be
adaptable for different site and climatic conditions. Similarly, repeated
and typical elements of buildings would be standardized and used in all
project institutions where applicable.
1/   About 35% of the volume of construction for the structures in the
College of Public Health is underway on the basis of the Ministry of
Health's original plan. The government has agreed that (i) an overall
site development plan acceptable to the Bank will be prepared, (ii)
the original plans will be revised to conform to the Bank's schedule
of accommodations, (iii) the present civil works contract will be
amended to permit completion only of the construction already under-
way and (iv) the utilities and finishings for the construction under-
way and all civil works for the balance of the college will be awarded
under one contract and in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 23 -
4.35      Procurement.  Civil work contracts would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. De-
tailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for the Bank's
review and approval prior to procurement. These lists would identify all
items or categories of items costing more than US$10,000, the residual items
being included in one miscellaneous category not exeeding US$100,000 for each
institution. Items would be grouped to the extent possible to form sizeable
packages to permit bulk procurement. Furniture and equipment contracts, ex-
cept for the items included in the miscellaneous category, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable
to competing imports or 15% of C.I.F. price, whichever is lower. Contracts
for the items in the miscellaneous category would be awarded under normal
government procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and
which would include price quotations from at least 3 suppliers.
4.36      The project would be implemented over a period of about 5 years
after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 16). Construction as well as
procurement and installation of equipment and furniture are expected to be
completed 4 years after the signing of the loan, with one additional year
allowed for guarantee and liabilities. Final disbursements would be made
and all accounts closed within the following 6 months.
4.37      Disbursements (Annex 17):  Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(i) 100% of the C.I.F. cost of imported furniture and equipment or 100% of
the ex-factory price of locally manufactured furniture and equipment for
contracts awarded under ICB; (ii) 70% of the purchase price of furniture
and equipment of foreign origin but procured locally; (iii) 50% of ex-factory
price of locally produced furniture and equipment not tendered under ICB;
(iv) 85% of the total expenditure for technical assistance; (v) 50% of the
total expenditure of the consultant fees for the engineering preparation
studies; (vi) 26% of total expenditure for civil works, and (vii) 16% of
consultant architect fees. These percentages would be adjusted as necessary
in order to distribute disbursements over the implementation period.
V. RISKS AND BENEFITS
5.01      The proposed project would assist the government in implementing
its plans for the expansion and reform of general education; the reinforce-
ment of skill training for the modern sector; and the strengthening of train-
ing for social and rural development. These would be accomplished as follows:
(i) in general education through the introduction of manual skill
work adapted to the local environment and expanded math and
science teaching for boys and girls at primary level; the
expansion of technological training, math and science at
secondary level; and the expansion of secondary teacher
training;



- 24 -
(ii)  in vocational and technical education through the design of
a new type of technical college to provide middle-level
skilled youngsters direct to the industrial and commercial
labor markets and of a new institution to train applied
engineers; and, through hotel staff training schools, using
improved curricula, to meet the existing and rapidly expand-
ing needs of the tourist industry,
(iii)  in rural development trainirg through a new national insti-
tution to develop and backstop farmer training and agricul-
tural extension and to plan and execute integrated rural
development projects using innovative methods and media;
and through new health and medical staff training institu-
tions to establish a new important emphasis on health team
work and community medicine for rural as well as urban areas.
5.02      The proposed project would thus reinforce the pattern of educational
development promoted by the first two projects and assist in extending this
to new educational activities and target groups. Two important benefits of
the project concern the efficiency and financing of general-education. Support
to the first phase of data computerization in the Ministries of Education will
assist in improving planning and programming and help minimize administrative
costs.
5.03      Particular attention will have to be given to establishing proced-
ures under which an effective overall review of project implementation can
be maintained by the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and under which
effective assistance can be provided by the Project Unit staff, promptly as
required, to the technical services of the responsible ministries. If this
can be accomplished efficiently, implementation should proceed smoothly; if
not, implementation is likely to suffer delays and attendant price increases
and postponements of the availability of the trained personnel which the
projects are designed to produce. This risk is a consequence of the large
numbers of project items and the numbers of ministries involved.
5.04      On the other hand, the implementation of various project items, if
executed by the government alone as some undoubtedly would be, would be much
more difficult. Without the technical assistance already provided and to be
provided by Bank staff during project supervision, and without the assistance
of the Project Unit and project financed experts, innovative and other qualita-
tive features would be diminished significantly. In addition, some project
items--in particular, those to provide trained personnel for tourism, agri-
culture and health--would support Bank assisted projects in these sectors.
For these reasons, the project is considered worth the risk inherent in a
large multi-faceted project.



- 25 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(i)  detailed syllabi would be prepared and sent to the Bank
for comment within 18 months of Loan Agreement signing
for the grade 4 and 5 primary school courses including
the new manual work subject and increased math/science
(para. 4.05), and the extended introduction to technology
course in the secondary schools (para. 4.09);
(ii)  in the primary schools, there would be (a) a program of
remedial classes and semi-automatic promotion (para. 4.03),
(b) a pilot teacher training scheme for manual courses in-
stituted before the opening of the schools (para. 4.05),
(c) a school meal service extended to them (para. 4.06),
and (d) an evaluation carried out not later than 5 years
after the schools' opening, the results to be communicated
to the Bank (para. 4.06);
(iii)  for the Rural Development and Extension Training Center,
(a) an outline of experimental extension and training
programs would be sent to the Bank for comment within
18 months of Loan Agreement signing (para. 4.18), and
(b) a Management Board with membership and functions
acceptable to the Bank would be established within one
year of Loan Agreement signing (para. 4.19).
6.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that a programming officer
and an architect would be appointed to the Project Implementation Unit (para.
4.33).
6.03      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0 mil-
lion to the Kingdom of Morocco.






COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX I
C JANUARY 9, 1976I
............................................U3..........................................
I       I        I           I         I                 a          I        I          I       I            a            I        I      I        a
I       I GNP/  I K GNP   IS TOTALIR   Of PUBLIC a                  a        I          aPRI. IAV.PRI.   a         a      I        gage   I        I
a        1CAP11A3  OEVOTED,PU8LIC  a EDUCATION    ILITER- a PRI. iCOMPLE.  1STU.  ISCM.TEACHIPROGRES3.1 SEC. 1STU.  Ia
a        a  Al   a TO IDU.a   EXP,  a RECURRENT    mAll             aENROLLaTION        IOENT8I8ALARY INIION RATE IENROLLiOENTSIMIGHERO
I        IMARKETI  CPUSLICiDEVOTEDaEXP ALLOCATEDa   RATE SRATIO aRATE FD*sPER   IRELATION aPROM PRI.IRATIO aPER   IENROLLi
I POP. aPRICEBa  LOP.    a  TO    a            TOt       I(% OP   a MET   aPR1.3CH,aTEACHi,  TO GNP/ iTO SEC.   a NET   ITEAC34- RATIDa
YIR(ODO) a CUSS),  ONLY)  a  IOU. aPR!. SEC. H41.iADULTS)i CX    iCYCLEChER    i CAPITA   i  (8)                            a (03   aIR    I CS) 
a Cl) ia   (2) a  (3)    a  34)   a            (5)       I (6)    a CT)   a  Ca)    a C9) I  (10)    I (111               aC12)   FM)3 adtA)   a
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA     ~~~73    7.51 2.4030      4.3      9.9      470  259   209    99          98        93         26        2.0         99        St       19       8.00
CANADA            72  21.8   4,440         7.7    a9.4       30    38    to       98       89        98        24         2.0        99        82        17      9.00
GERMqANY F.REP.72   61.6  3, 390           4. 2    14.2      ...  74.*  26       99        93        99        33       ...          99        91       22      I17.001
JAPANM           7 1 106.91 2.3201         4.3    20.7       3R    38    32      99        990       99C       25C       2.0         99C       940      2CC    28.00D
NETHERLANDS    72   13.3  2,4940           8.5    19.19    32    45    19        99        95        95        29        3. 0        97        73       20      33.00
lEO ZEALAND    73    2.91 2,560C           S.2    ..         39    24    29       99       99        99        26       ...          99        67        19     20.00
NOR*Av           72    3.9  So.340         7.0    IS.2       58    23    IS      99       99         98        20         1.9        99        76        14     11.00
SWEDEN           73    8ole 4, 480C        8.9    a6.0       36    IA    13      99       99         99        37       ...          90        as        10     30. 00
J.4.             70  S5.8C 2.6001          5.8    33.8........    97                      98         ...       28       ...          ...       so        to8      .
U. S.A.           72 208.8   5.590         6.0    15.4       ..  73*  27          99       99        99        25u       2.0         ...       93        19U    29.0a
EUROPE
GREECE      ~~~~71    A.9C'  3, 460   2. 2    11.1      SoAy  29Y  14Y    821         951        ...       321      ...          70A       38SO     431    11.00
IRELAND          72    3 .0   a , SS       S.1I     3390    43Y  'a1Y  14Y    98          97         99A       35       ...          93A       73       39       7.004
PORTUGAL    72  9.7  730                   ......   ...                                   930Y                 ..*.    6501..   7.b0y
SPAIN             71  3a.3C, 1.100C        2.08   15.2A    49Y   2         5       4      91A         *.       SA       *            ,         OA       30       6.00A
AFRI CA
ALGERIA     ~~~73   14.2C    430C     9.OA    ..        43    32    36       254      67        86         43        6.0         37        18x      26       3.50
BE 41 4           73    2.9Ce    I  OC     S. 3    32. 0     47    23    t0       I I      3208      708       s08      25.08        438         78     398      0.44CY
BOTSAANA          74    0,7      300       5.0    20. 0      38    20    3 5      as       700       75        35         5.0        24        130       18a     0.301
BURUNDI           72    3.6       60 .         ...2708 x                                               .       381      ..            .          2081   hIAY        1 0.3581
CA4EROON          7 0    6.01    20CC    -30    20.           81 21    7                   74         ..:      530D1                 *..                 2 CY ~0.93 C1
1.4.8.            7 0    1 bC    IAIC      4. ON   20. 0     S6    19  ..         .. .    64CY       25        65CY    ...           to          SCd    2781    0.071
CHAD              70    3.8C       ocC     4.3    34.3       77    23      0       7       29081    ...        6681    . ..          ...         2081   30        0.0181
C0'EGD(N          73    1.3C    300C       6.8    26.4       4581  3581  3581   S0?    t338          ...       63       ...          ...       29       43Y      2.44CY
ET4IoprA          73  25.9C       80       3.      200        2    29    15        7       17C1      42C       50         3.0         3                  30       0.7
GABON             73    0.se    Ig0e       S:0   220.6:    25        9     3      ..     308         25        41         5.          8A       201      211       l.AOC
GHANA    73    9.31   ~~~~~      ~~300C  4.7    241.4R   380   1a 3        .      501        6         301       ...                                           By30 lCY 07
IVORY COAST    72    S.4         340       6.3    28.7       278Y 338Y1331         96     se         S71       46        .           ...        to      25        3.2881
KENYA             73   32.1C    ITOC       6,4    27. 0      63    i I    I31     40     3050        *...      40        8.0         30        32       23        1.0381
LESOTHO           73    0.91      901      4.7    22.0       45C   ISC   241    40         65        ...       45         ...        ...         a      22       0 .03
LIBERI A          74    I .6C    3331      2.7    3 3.9      25    13    22       ...      59        ...       39         0.8        ...       20        20      3.3041
4AILIAwI         74    4.71    1001        3.3    20.9....... 25                          560        60        s0        7.0         40          40     20        0.26CY
4ALI             74    5.11       7CC      4.64   32.3       368   528   1281   10         1o        22        00       34 .0        37          4       3 7     0.16*1
4AJRITANIA       70    3.21    3801        4.S    21.0.10..                  ..   t        351       ...       22         ...        ...         3      24        ..
MAURIlIUS         72    0.8      3 00      3. 7    13 .7D    73    10      4      s0       86        99        31         ...        ...       31        30       1.4711
MODROCCO         74   15.81    2701        S.OC   16.5       40    47      9     26?      540        23        37         ...        31        13X      2a       2.0
NIGErRIA          71   69.51    1301       3.2N   ...        404  24A   206    ...         39011    ...        3411       ...        ..          4      2OCY    0.3711
R*440A            i3    3.71      6041    3.21   28.00,........    23                      52        ...       5t         ...        ...         2       13      0.2311
SENEGAL          73     0. 01    2501      4.04   22.5D8   39A   42A    SA    10          380        ...       46         ...        ...      I3I0      25       3.73CY
SIERRA LEONE   73    2.71    3901          3.04   23.4       33    36    30       IS?     300        45        32        4.0F        66          330    23       0.5381
S0NALIA          73    2.91       801      ...      7.0      S7    16    13        S       13        93        35      I35.0         Qs          3       to       1 .0
SUDAN            72   36.5       3 20      4.5    33S.2      43    29    28       3 5      38        75        45        4 .0        25         13t     20        1.23Y
SWAZILAN!)       72    0.41    260         A*3A   19. 7      37    26    386    28        66         22        38        7.0         . ..      a6DY    20        3 .0
TA4ZANTA         74   3 3.2C    110 I      5,34.  17.0       36           3  .12  63       400                 4 ... 4                7          2      231      0 .3
Tu4rsiA           73    5.31    3841       6.3    23.4       37    43    38a    53         72        8I        a3        6.0         31         IA      23        3.0
UGANDA           70   30.41    3501        5.24   37.6CR   4 09   229   259    256         48011    ...        36         ..         301         *011   231      0. 588
UPPER VOLTA    72    Sob          64       4.0    23.9       65    3 0     6       5       t0        . ..      AS       38.0         20          2      23        0.01B1
ZAIRE             73  23.4       327       S.21N 21 JC    S4C   17TC  29C   I35            63        38        A4A       6.0         4 3         a      204       0.9*81
ZA148r1A         7 3    4.51    380C       5.6    36.5       8 4    22    1 0     0 3      950       ..        5 0        ...        20         350    a20        0.441Y
CENTRAL AMERICA AND T4E CARIRSEAN
COSTA  RICA  73    1.81    6301  ~~~~~~5.2    22.7  57    25    12     89       8611      65        29          3.0       Ss         2211    25       32.311c
004140CAN 819.72    4.2          480       2. 5    15,508   42    24    22          I      a80         7       50          3.00      6 3        1 3      24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    75    3.71    340C          3.6    23.8       60I     S    22      58AY    7311c   ...          3911        ...       ...        36011   21c1    4.3581
GUATEMALA        73    5.61    4201        3.9    36.0       53    23    14       07       64        26        35          3.0       69          8       25       4.091
MAITI            72    4.4       330       0.9      6.60    63    it       8      208      22        25?       45          5.0       s0          3       23       1.00?
H0ODURAs         72    2.7       320       3.9    26.501   64    33    la         52       830       38        37          6.0       ?S         lAO      14       3.00
JAMAICA          7 2    3.9      830       6.51   1 9.7      331   22Y    71   a86        30601        . .     5S2         ...        ...       32X1    3 9       4.79Y
MEXICO           7 0  58.11    7501        2.6&     9.3      50    24    3 2      76       7 1       33t       46          3.0       63         1 9      2 3      6.321Y
NICARAGUA        7 4    2.01    630        2.3    104.2      63 I   3I3    33     57       65        2 1       3 7         2.0       9 3        1 7      20       7.0
TRINIDAD t T. 71    3.01'   9401           5.1    18.9       S3    27    32       90       950       87        35          4.0        is        49       25       2.56AY
SOJTI4 AM4ERICA
BRZL          78   9.21    5301         4.3    32.01    42    20        37    79        800       ...       2711                             lea..  8  3511    6.008
CHILE             72      0. 0   800       4.6y   30,61    3491  3591 4091   ...   I3I3001D   ...               378Y       ...        ...       48001     ..      ..
COLOMBIA         70   23.91    40001       4 .0    30.9      35    380   20       73       6 7       20         36         0.0       9 0        3 7      1 4      8.00
ECUAOORt          72    6.5-    360        3.7    27.71    4591Y 4291  100Y  69            72        ...        38         ...        ...       t8       14       A.978ly
GUYANA            74    0.71    400C       5.4N   t4.70    4 7    35    3 4       83A      920       39         3 3        6.0       I39        620      20       3 .00
PARAGUAY          7 4    2.81    320C      1.8    17.9       57    15S   28        3       8 a8      26b        29         to9        65        353    I30        4. 00
PERU              7 1   104.11C   5201     4.5    24.10    50S   22    35S    72           8 0       38         390Y       3. 0       7 0       3 0      230Y  12. 00
VENEZUELA        73   13.1  132401         4.6    39.9       309   289   350    774        81 I       .         3 3        2.4        ...       3 3      ...    32.6311



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)                                        ANNEX t  PAOLE  I
(JANUARY 9, 1976)
I       I                   I                          I                  I          I       I           I            I        I      I        I 
I       t GNP/ i I GNP   it TOTALIS  OF PUBLIC I                 I        I          IPR?. SAV.PRI.   I               I        alEC   I        a
I       ICAPITAS OEVOTEDIPUSLIC  . EDUCATION    sLITER- i PRI. ICOMPLEW. IBTU.  iBCH.TEACHiPROGRESS-s SEC. sSTU- i                             I
I       i  AT  i TO EDU.u   EXP. a RECURRENT    aACY             IENROLLaTION        iOENTStSALARV INmiON RATE sENROLL#OENTSiHIBMERs
,(P. ARKETa  (PUBLIC,DEV1OT9D:E1P ALLOCATEDg   RAEIRATE                    AE ORPR           RLTIOYIN iFORPR .RATIOsP MC.ENROLL:
POP    aPIC   E P,        TO    *      TOm       3(1 OP   sNET   ,PRI. CM,TE 0H             O *P/  CT E. aNT   STA  -RTIO,
YRI(000) I (U3S)I  ONLY)   I  IOU. IFRO, 3EC. Hl..AOULTS)3 (B)   ICNCLEft)iER    i CAPITA   a  (I) I                       (1)  aIR    a C) Ia
a   I        I          I         I                3         0        I          I I  I                           I       I       I
a(1) am  (21  ,  (3)    a  (4)              (Si)         (A)    a (F)   I  (I)    a (9) a  (10)    I (II)            3(12)   3(13) 3(34) a
ASIA AND OCEANIA
BA;NGLAIES       73   72.51      701      1.2    20.2........    23                     560       ...       46         ...       ...       130      26       ..
CHINACTAIWAN) 73  15.IC1  490C            1.3    3A.0      28    41    22      62       98        94        40        14.0       84        Ss       26     15.00
INDIA            71 563.5C    3301        2.bvy  ...       ... .... 29                 790        ...      43A         ...       ...       284      20AY    4.O0AY
INDONESIA        73 123oc    1201         1.8    31.0      63    23    14      be      63        40         32         5.0       91        12       16      2.00
IRAN             73  29.BC.  Isoc         3.3    12.6      soB9  toB   120    so        77       74A        32         5.05      ODA       24       32      4.3217
IRAQ             72   10.1      370       6.7    16.3DR ..8.  ...              26      611y       ...      22          *...      ...       2631Y  26        6.26CY
JORDAN           73    2.4C    ??DC      7.0      8.8      52    Is   21       59      910       76        36          3.00      84        sox      22      4.00
KOREA            73  32.3C    hO0C        2.9    19.3      64    26      S     92       97        90        53         3. 00     71        53       39       6.00
LEBANON          72    2.9      7 00      3.5    38.0      39    40    10      65       86        65        19         2.00      63        26U      25     23.00
4ALAYSTA         72  11.4       838       6. 4    22.7D0..       ... ... 60             900       ...       32         -.         .        33X      26       ...
OMAN             72    0.6      53 0      2. 3     1.6     96     -            20       240       99        33         7.00      ...        0.40    9        . ..
PAKISTAN         75  66.7C,  1301         1.6     6.2      45    25    IB      21      '470       s0        39         2. 00     ...       170      la       6.00
PMILIPPINES    74  39.oC    220C          2.5    1 4.9     73    I5    12      87      1040       ...       34         15        ...       46X      ...    21.00
SINGAPORE        72    2.3    1200        3.1 IN 6t.2      441   31    1s      75A    1070        72        33         ...       99        47       24       8.257
THAILAND         73  38.5       2201      3.DN   10.7      65     9    is      82       s7x       93C       32         3.0OU    91C        230      24       2.00
TURKEY           72  37 .0      370       ...    t 3.0OR.       ..                    ISC ...               340Y        .         .        220Y    270Y7     53107
YEN4E4           73    6.3      100       0.3     4. 0     45P  RIP    3P       0       10        I         36         5.00      75,        2x      19       0.0587
VENqEN R,3*R*   72    3 .8      100       2.3A   12.6      79    12            30       700       31        29        30 . 00    99        123      20       0.0647
SUNMARY P04 DEVELOPING---------------------  ----------------OUNTRI--------ES,---   -
NJMRE4 OF COUNTRIESI                      67     67       61    54    59      62      73        Mt        72           30       41        73      69         67
RANGE,                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.5-   (3.8-   ( 29- (0-   (0-    (5-  (30-  (17.     19.       (1.8.    (7-        ( .4-    (9-     (0 1
9. 0 )32.3) I   6 152)  40 )    98)           164X)    99 0       66 1       25.0 )    991I      75.0)   43)I      23.0)
)UARTILEISUPPER i                      4.7    21I. 0    57    36    20      6e       91        76        45           7       76         26      26       4. 79
MEDIANI                    4. 0    189.2    so   27    Is       so       71        56        38          4        63        16       23       2.0 0
LOWER 1                    3. 0    34.0     42    37    I1      20       48        25        33          3        25         a       39       0 .53
SYNOOLS,...  DATUM UNAVAILABLE--                             ------4-1--70--OR---E---RE  M.CURRENT  PRICES-----SOURCES,--
4AGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8.1971                              NuBop                                        ;NS               AD2WRDBK
G UESTIONABLE                       Cu1972                        PEINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      CLHS1AD2WRDBN
INCLUOES PART-TIME STUDENTS D&1973                              IWCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                             ATLAS
COMBINED ,ITH PRIMARY               EvI974                        R.MINISTRY OP EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                     3 TO 14 lORD MISSIONS
SSMOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                       AND/OR UNESCO
TaEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                        STATISTICAL
UsPUBLIC ONLY                                                    YEARBOOK
VUINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XmINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y.UNI3CO SOURCES
...................................................................
CO4PARAYTVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OP RELATIVE STAGES OP EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT RETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OP THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED *TTH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS PROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESo THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS ANO WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OP THE DATA. NEVERTMELEBSS3UCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OPF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE Of THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
VINDI
(l)'EDUCATION- AS OEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAININ4G, FORMAL AND NONPFORHALI
12)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND -SECONDARY- EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATInN AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OP TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL] 
(3)"LITERACY RATES3(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED PROM COUNTRY CEFNSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRtIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT Is
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF OLITERtATE' HAS SEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
W4)PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATIONI(COLS.3.R AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EOPENOITURELS DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND OUASI-PUSLIC AGENCIES,
(5)ENROLLMENT RATIOS-(COLS 7, 1? AND 14) REPER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN TME PERCENTAGE OP ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED PULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OP ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OP BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOJOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
A Detailed Review of Existing Programs
I. The Formal School System
1.        Formal schooling is under government jurisdiction and comprises
three principal levels: primary (5 years), secondary (4 plus 3 years) and
higher (typically 4 years for degree courses). Since April 1974 when the
Ministry of Education was separated into two ministries, one for Primary and
Secondary Education and one for Higher Education, all formal schooling, with
the exception of pre-school education, has been administered by these two
ministries. The reorganization is not yet complete and no official organigram
exists for the ministries. An unofficial chart (Chart 1) shows the current
position. Both ministries share a common budgeting and planning function and
there is incomplete definition of responsibility for "enseignement originel."
2.        Private education is comparatively unimportant.  Private schools
enroll 50,115 children (1974/5) at primary level, only about 3.5% of the
national primary enrollment, and 24,902 pupils (1974/5) at secondary level or
6% of national secondary enrollments. Private koranic education is significant
accounting for 72.4% of all private enrollments and 50.3% of those at sec-
ondary level (1974/5).
Pre-School and Primary Schooling
3.        Pre-School Education:  Pre-school education is under the joint
supervision of the Ministries of Islamic Affairs, Home Affairs and Youth and
Sports, and there is no nationally organized system. Kindergartens are
managed on a local basis by voluntary organizations including womens' clubs,
League for the Protection of Children and the National Union of Moroccan
Women. Pre-school aged children also attend religious classes organized
through mosques along with older children and youth. No statistics are col-
lected centrally but attendance in pre-school education is estimated at around
300,000 or about 12% of the age-group 3 to 6 years. UNICEF is currently as-
sisting in a training experiment to modernize koranic schools.
4.        Primary Schooling is compulsory for children between 7 and 13 years.
Enrollments (public and private) have been growing steadily from 1,124,333
pupils in 1968/9 to 1,413,993 in 1974/5, an average 4.7% annual growth over
the past 5 years (1970-71 to 1974/75). The enrollment of girls has expanded
at a faster rate than for boys, growing by 25.8% since 1968/9 compared to



ANNEX 2
Page 2
19.8% for boys. However, girls still account for only 35.7% of total enroll-
ments (1974/5), a modest improvement over the 32.5% proportion in 1968/9.
The pupil-teacher ratio, 39:1, is satisfactory.
5.        Schools, usually well constructed, operate under three different
organizational systems designed to accommodate as many children as possible
given a shortage of classroom space in urban areas and the difficulties of
providing schooling in sparsely populated rural areas. A shift system
operates in two thirds of public school classes (1974/5) and pupils attend
sessions covering early morning and early afternoon or late morning and late
afternoon. About 78% of all urban classes operate shifts. In rural areas,
multiple grade class teaching is common and about 16% of all are occupied by
more than one grade simultaneously. Multi-grade teaching is insignificant
in urban areas. A system of "secteurs scolaires" (glossary) operates in
rural areas. "Secteur scolaire" classes may also be multi-grade. In 1974/5
of 1,496 public primary school establishments, 626 were "secteurs scolaires."
Under the circumstances and as an interim measure, the systems operate satis-
factorily. The government, however, is committed to reducing the number of
shift classes and "secteurs scolaires" and to improve the quality of teaching
in multi-grade classes.
6.        The primary curriculum is conventionally literary.  Instruction is
given in Arabic with French being taught from the third year. About 76% of
available time is devoted to teaching Arabic, French and Religion with only
just over 16% to arithmetic and just over 1% to science. Effective learning
is hindered by a lack of textbooks and teaching materials. Extra-curricula
school cooperatives (cooperatives scolaires) have been introduced in some
schools to encourage pupils to take an interest in arts, crafts, small animal
husbandry and gardens. But the system manifests itself only sporadically
reflecting the enthusiasms of individual headmasters and teachers and suffers
from a lack of teaching materials. The primary school leaving certificate,
awarded after an examination in Arabic, French and arithmetic terminates
primary schooling.
7.        Secondary Education:  Public secondary schooling is dominant and of
2 types, "moderne" and "originel."  The latter follows a traditional Islamic
educational mode and is quantitatively of less significance, enrolling only
8,279 pupils of a total public secondary enrollment of 374,849 (1974/75), and
has declined by 23% since 1968/9. Enrollments in private secondary schooling,
currently 24,902 pupils, have also declined in the same period by about 17%.
Public schooling has expanded rapidly from 257,324 (1968/9) to 374,849 (1974/5),
almost 50% increase in 7 years. Girls represent 32% of total enrollments
doubling from 16% over 7 years. School buildings are on the whole well con-
structed and adequately equipped. The pupil/teacher ratios at lower and upper
levels, 25:1 and 17:1 respectively, are adequate. Efficiency rates, however,
are poor. In the lower cycle repetition rates average 18% and drop-out rates
7%, and in the upper cycle they average 17% and 11% respectively. It currently
takes 7.3 pupil/years to produce a lower cycle graduate and 4.1 pupil/years for
an upper cycle completer.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        About 76% of total enrollments are in the lower cycle.  This pro-
vides a common education leading to upper cycle specialist options. In the
lower cycle, 60% of available time is devoted to arts subjects and 27% to
maths and science. The cycle culminates with the examination for the Certi-
ficate of Secondary Education and just over half (53%) of 4th grade pupils
typically proceed to the upper cycle. A major curriculum weakness is the
lack of practical technological training. However, the government has
recently introduced an experimental program in 5 schools which consists of
2 hours per week of technological induction in the third and fourth years as
a step in overcoming this deficiency. It is intended that this subject will
be extended to the first 2 years.
9.        The upper cycle offers three main options, arts, science and tech-
nology which are further subdivided after the first year into more specialized
options. Efforts are being made to increase the proportion of students in
science and technology with some success. In 1965, 75% of baccalaureat
graduates were in arts subjects and only 21% in sciences. This has now im-
proved (1974) to 53% and 41% respectively.
10.       Primary teachers (public) total 35,118 (1974/5) of which 69.7% were
fully qualified (instituteurstitulaires) and 18% female. The force is now
fully moroccanized and short teacher retraining and up-grading courses con-
tinue apace catering for about 2,000 teachers a year. These use television
and correspondence methods. The full teacher training course lasts 2 years
after completion of lower cycle secondary education and is conducted in 18
training colleges (ERI's). Admission to the course is by examination and
successful candidates receive bursaries and undertake to teach for 7 years.
Three up-grading centers (CRFP's) and 19 educational prQmotion centers (CAP's)
provide facilities for refresher courses and there are plans for 8 new ERI's
and for the expansion of 5 existing ones to cater for the growth in the
primary school system. Progress in developing the primary teacher training
system is satisfactory.
11.       The evolution of the training system for secondary teachers is more
problematic and of 17,111 teachers, 6,239 (about 36%) are still expatriate
(1974/5). Prior to 1971, all secondary teachers were trained at the Higher
Teacher Training College (ENS) as part of a university degree course. Poten-
tial lower secondary teachers typically spent 2 years and upper secondary
teachers 4 years at university. Since then, in order to accelerate annual
output and to permit a measure of decentralization, the training of lower
secondary teachers has been transferred to 13 new Regional Teacher Training
Colleges (CPR's) and the ENS has introduced a 1 year post-degree course for
upper cycle teachers. In 1974, the CPR's produced 811 teachers and the ENS
had 91 teacher-trainees. The national service obligation for university
graduates provides teaching as an option, but to qualify for an ENS place,
graduates must agree to teach for 8 years. As an additional measure, a new
1-year special course (cycle special) has been introduced to up-grade the
best academically qualified lower cycle teachers for the upper cycle. Qualifi-
cations for this include 5 years teaching experience and an academic level



ANNEX 2
Page 4
equivalent to at least 2nd year university work. The 1-year course is mainly
academic upgrading as the trainees already have teaching experience and prior
pedagogic training.
12.       Higher Education:  The system of higher education comprises two
universities managed by the Ministry of Higher Education, and a number of post-
secondary training institutions under other ministries, including Agriculture,
Health, Tourism, Trade and Industry, Public Works and Telecommunications, and
Posts and Telegraphs. The well-equipped Mohamed V University, Rabat, is the
principal institution enrolling 20,112 students (1973/74), 79% of the total
national enrollment in higher education institutions. Enrollments have more
than doubled in the past 5 years and females constitute about 10% of the student
body. 80% of all students are enrolled in arts and social science courses,
13% in medicine and only 7% in science and engineering subjects. Efficiency
is very low and based on data for all faculties 1968-72, it takes about 14
pupil/years to produce a typical 4-year course graduate. About 40% of full-time
staff are foreign. The University of Quaraouine provides traditional Islamic-
type higher education and currently enrolls 640 students.
II. Out-of-School Education and Training
13.       Agricultural Education and Training:  This is administered by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA). Within the ministry,
responsibility is split between the Agricultural Education and Training Depart-
ment and the Extension Department. The former is primarily concerned with
professional staff training and the latter with farmer training. There is
some duplication of effort at the lower extension worker levels which could be
avoided by the development of one training-extension system.
14.       The Extension Department is responsible for 8 regional young farmer
training centers (CRAFA), each training about 40 youngsters on courses lasting
2 to 4 months. The annual thtough-put of about 1,000 youngsters a year is
small in relation to needs but there are plans to increase the number of
centers and 2 more are currently under construction.
15.       Farmer extension and training is quantitatively inadequate.  This
is felt especially in rain-fed areas where a ratio of 1 extension agent to
about 1,000 farm families compares unfavorably to the ratio of 1 to 200 families
in irrigated areas. About 2,500 agents are involved in extension nationally
and there is little immediate prospect for improving the ratio due to the
limited number of agents being trained and the fact that once trained they have
to fulfil numerous other functions.
16.       In-service field staff training is organized by the Extension Depart-
ment in the Mehdia Centre de Perfectionnement which caters for about 1,000
extension workers annually on courses varying from about a week to 4 months
depending on the subjects of the courses.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       The Agricultural Education Department mounts pre-service and in-
service courses for extension staff. A 1-year course for assistant extension
agents (agents techniques) is organized in 7 centers having a total capacity
for about 250 trainees. Extension agents (adjoints techniques) are trained
on 2-year courses in 8 centers with a total capacity for about 700 trainees.
18.       Extension staff training is inadequate qualitatively.  Extension
agents receive 50 hours in extension work training of 2,000 instructional
hours. Moreover, the training is remote from the working conditions.
19.       At higher staffing levels, the National School of Agriculture,
Meknes, and the National School of Forestry Engineers, Sale, train agricultural
and forestry field engineers (ingenieurs d'application). The Meknes school
with a capacity for 210 trainees specializes in agricultural techniques, horti-
culture, plant protection, and animal husbandry. The school was expanded and
reorganized in 1972, and is not functioning to full capacity.
20.       The Hassan II Institute of Agriculture and Veterinary Science,
Rabat, is the apex of the agricultural education system. In addition to a
6-year agricultural and veterinary science course for state engineers (inge-
nieurs d'etat), the institute also offers 4-year courses to train field
engineers in rural works, topography, and food technology, and courses at
technical assistant's level for laboratory technicians and surveyors. In
1973/4, 240 students were enrolled in a preparatory year, 92 students were
following the 4-year course and 262 the 6-year course.
Non-Farm Skill Training
21.       The Ministry of Labour and Social Services in 1974 charged a special
office with the responsibility for organizing and administering vocational
training and for recruiting and training instructors and ascertaining manpower
needs in industry and commerce. It is assisted by a council representing
employers, workers, and government officers and is financed by a 1% wage bill
tax levied on industrial and commercial firms currently yielding about 30 mil-
lion dirhams.
22.       Training is carried out in 26 centers.  Industrial training in 9
centers currently enrolls 1,700 trainees on 1-year courses to become semi-
skilled workers (ouvriers specialises). About a third of the best trainees
are retained for a second year to become fully qualified workers (ouvriers
qualifies). Commercial training in 6 centers enrolls 160 trainees on 1-year
courses in secretarial work and bookkeeping. Tailoring training in 10 centers
enrolls about 1,000 trainees on shorter courses varying in length. Entry to
the industrial and commercial training courses is by competition and candidates
have usually completed 3 or 4 years of secondary education. In addition, the
office conducts short courses and seminars for workshop supervisory and tech-
nical staff, up-grading courses (1 to 2 months) for semi-skilled workers,
special pedagogical courses for industrial instructors, and evening courses
(mostly in theory) for apprentices. There are plans to supplement training



ANNEX 2
Page 6
with correspondence courses and to use mobile training units for rural areas.
Instructor training is carried out residentially in a center at Casablanca.
The course lasts two years and includes both skill training and pedagogy.
23.       The Department of Artisanat (Ministry of National Assistance and
Artisanat) organizes field handicraft training. There are 65 centers (1973/4)
with places for 2,000 pupils and training includes carpet-making, shoemaking,
leatherwork, tanning, gem-cutting and polishing, ceramics, woodwork, weaving
and embroidery. Priority is given to sons of craftsman but candidates must
have completed a primary education. Over the past five years, nearly 4,000
pupils have been trained and it is proposed to increase training center
capacity to 4,500 places and to add subjects such as glass-blowing, wrought
iron work, jewelry-making and basket-making.
24.       At a higher level, the National Leather and Textiles Institute at
Fez, offers 2 and 3-year courses covering tanning, weaving, spinning, dyeing
and shoemaking. A "technician" diploma is awarded at the end of the 2-year
course and that of "technical specialist" at the end of 3 years study. Over
the past 5 years, 250 students have been awarded diplomas, 154 technicians
and 106 technical specialists.
25.       The Ministry of Tourism organizes training at 3 levels to service
the needs of the growing tourist industry. At the base, a center at Ben
Slimane has a capacity for about 500 trainees on a 1-year semi-skilled course.
At Rabat there is a similar center for training 50 girls on a 2-year course.
The situation is unsatisfactory, and the ministry is expanding and re-
organizing its training at this level focussing on a regional development
based on the growing tourist centers at Casablanca, Nador, Beni Mellal and
Ouzarzarte. The existing curriculum is overspecialized and requires renova-
tion. The Ben Slimane course lasts 44 weeks and includes 12 weeks of second-
ment to various local hotels and restaurants.
26.       At middle-level, 5 hotel schools (Rabat, Tanger, Marrakech, Agadir
and Fez) cater for about 800 students on 3-year courses. Students have about
4 years of secondary education and must pass an entrance examination. The
first year is common for all students and covers cooking, reception and
restaurant work. During the second and third years, trainees specialize in
either cuisine or restaurant-reception and general education and language
training is offered in all 3 years. Students usually spend at least two
months in a hotel abroad between the second and third years. The combination
of theoretical, practical training, general education, and hotel experience
at home and abroad is a good foundation for this level of staff training.
27.       The Higher Institute of Tourism, Tanger, opened in 1972, is the
training apex for senior personnel. It comprises tourism and hotel administra-
tion sections. Students typically have a baccalaureat, hotel specialist
diploma, or similar qualifications and must pass an entrance examination.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
28.       The 4-year course is divided into two 2-year phases.  At the end of
the first phase a diploma of higher technical studies is awarded. There are
currently about 50 students enrolled (1973/4), 39 in the first phase and 11 in
the second. The Institute receives considerable bilateral technical assist-
ance.
29.       A major problem at all levels of hotel training is the shortage of
local teaching staff. All staff at the Institute and key technical staff at
the middle level schools are foreign. There is no provision for systematic
local training of trainers and the 24 Moroccans being trained abroad are quite
insufficient to service the expanding program.
Health Education and Training
30.       The training of health and medical workers to staff the village
level health centers in the regional and national hospitals is the responsi-
bility of the Professional Training Service of the Ministry of Health.
31.       At the base, assistant nurses (infirmiers auxiliaires and infirmiers
brevets) are trained in 16 centers with about 2,220 students on 2-year courses.
Students must have completed 3 years of secondary schooling and have passed
an entrance examination. This cadre works under the supervision of state-
registered nurses (diplome d'etat infirmiers) and provide the bulk of the care
given in 800 health centers. After several years of satisfactory service,
assistant nurses can qualify for up-grading to state-registered level.
32.       At the middle level, health assistants are of two kinds--state
registered nurses and medical technicians. Nurses are trained in 7 schools
currently enrolling 541 trainees (1974/5) on 2-year courses. Students with a
baccalaureat gain direct admittance, others take an entrance examination. At
present there are 957 staff in service, about two-thirds male. Female nurse
training includes midwifery. Medical technicians (laboratory, sanitation,
radiology, anaesthesiology, psychiatry, pharmacy, obstetrics and health sta-
tistics) are trained in school "sections" in Rabat and Casablanca with about
250 students enrolled on 2-year courses (1974/5). Entrance requirements are
the same as that for state-registered nurses. Plans exist for developing one
school for each region to provide for local needs.
33.       Higher level training (cadristes) is provided in the School for
Higher Level Personnel (Ecole de Formation des Cadres) at Rabat with a capacity
for about 100 trainees. Trainees include the prospective health teachers and
supervisors on which the current rapid expansion of health coverage depends--
health educators, senior sanitary officers, senior hospital administrators,
midwives, social workers, dieticians, specialist psychiatric workers, anaes-
thesiologists, laboratory supervisor statisticians and radiologists. Courses
last 2 years and trainees are recruited from experienced personnel qualified
as state-registered nurses or technicians.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
34.       Physicians are trained in the faculty of medicine at the Mohamed V
University, Rabat, in 6-year courses, about 3,700 students are currently en-
rolled. It is planned that from this year, training will be expanded to
embrace the national hospital at Casablanca.
35.       Whilst the technical content of training is considered satisfactory,
a general weakness is the lack of attention to community and social medicine
and to the development of an integrated team work approach for preventive
medicine. A proposed reorganization and regrouping of training will be a
step forward in overcoming this deficiency.
Youth and Womens' Programs
36.       The Department of Youth and Sports in the Ministry of Labour and
Social Affairs, administers 3 staff training centers for about 130 trainees
(baccalaureat level) to be youth instructors, educators and leaders. The
course lasts 2 years and has been established to support the department's
small, predominantly urban-oriented youth center program. Women and girls'
programs are small and based on 372 urban and rural centers (Foyers Feminins)
constructed and managed by local communities but assisted by the department.
Courses are organized on an ad-hoc basis but typically include home economics,
sewing, cookery and health and hygiene as well as religious education.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION
1975
HIGHER EDUCATION                                                                                                     PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
MINISTER                                                                                                                        MINISTER
|  Secleta,y                                                                                           DiiiI    fIsp"o
General                                     Shared Services                                       Examinations
Department of                   Dp         of                  Department of                   Department of    l
Classical                   Hgher Education                  Admistration                      Plaing
Arabic Studies                  and Research         ;         A                                  P                                                                  I
Department of                   Department of                                     l
I                                                              l    |  Primary Education                  Secondary and                     p abic Studies
ary                 ~~~~Technical Education        CasclAai  tde
Divi tyn                        Division of                    Division of          u          Division of                      Division of
Universinatiy                    eionnel                        Studies                        Pedagogy                       Staff Training
CoDination o
Division of                    Division for                    Division of                       vso                            Divkion of
Univ,srsitv Relations   l          Equipment                        Statistics         I          Staff Training              Programs and Methods
f              Division of  |                                         of Division of
Scholarships                 Finnce & Budget                     Mapping                    Pre-school Education            Technical Education
Division for ,                     Division of     l l                                              Division of     l
, |    oial Security                   REexitaetrnOal                                                Adm in ist,ation  l
Division for                                                                                     Division of
SoiLegal Affair|  SpeRian                                                                                      Inspection
D ivvsion offo
| Private Education |
There is no official organigr-m for the ministries.
This represents the situation at the time of appraisal.
World Bank-15122
n I



*" |otroiHwzo                 N   -8                       *   0K_  
'  -' C              N Z  n=:* ^ < 9  x               N
o   s                                                 t- r 2  o>_
0       -
C                                                                           H                             _,
13-~ ~ ~~t?                HI                                                                                 _
g~~~~~~~~~ff0-                                >                                 W                             _
.,                   '8              ,_4.                                           '0_g ' - =-_0 
K  N    W    ne   -   _    X   '  s   |   I   IN             N 
SMw;: A, RTS  U _to                        t
ft~~~                                 D.t                          N                  I     04
0~~~~0 0                                                                                     _1 ;



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1973 -1974
G,~4,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6ln.
GMales  B                                                                                                     H,g64, I100% IOOX lp                                                                                       Fe2,4k                 20.7521/
17                                                                                                                                            I803   174                                                                                                                       977
16                                                                                                                                            1.242   257 7.49
Ts                           81%                                                                                                              1.816   372                                                                                               19%                   2.188                  1       1 7.67%
14                                                                                                                                           3,1 14   692                                                                                                                     3,806
1 2}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.                                                                                                                                                                                                           366'1,7|  02 gE5 _ <1'13f5  11
I13                                                                                                                                      9,844          2,439                                                                                                                12,90 2802102
S-d,~.rY (93% pbl~)36,7,1
17                                                                                                                                   149                                                                                                                                     79.7.1~777
1                                                                                                                           30.45 
Inlu1                                                                                                                        194                     7,95nt                                                                                                            30 ,145edcait
17                                                                                                                                                            0,3                                                                                                            36,261
9  68%                                                 41.06                                         9.185                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~                         ~        ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32%  60,248  21%  13
8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,12,6  0,672
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41672,345
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            93 2.27  1.277
P~nay6p,,bl,cl                                                                                                         1.337,931
5                                                                                                                                                                                                '87,649' ~69,66255,105
4                                                 149,733                                                                                                                                                    7                                                              231,912
3                           64%          164,353                                                                                                                                                             904336%                                                        254,767                  78%      4
2                                       166,453                                                                                                                                                                9.3                                                           5,9
220    10   20   10   18     170JO    iso    10   310  1210  1110  1010   960  81    710   610   510   40    30    20    10    0    110   20    30   4 50     0 70       8     90 10 110   120   130   140   50   1160  170   180   190   200  210  220
1  IflCh~~~*saIiStUdtfltS   h.9herec6~~~~~~~Cat,o,~~                                                  ThlOsao,-d,l49,k-57



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS IN THE FIRST AND SECOND
MOROCCAN EDUCATION PROJECTS
1.        The first Moroccan education project (Credit 79-MOR) was completed
in June 1975, nearly 5 years behind the original implementation schedule.
The second project (Credit 266-MOR) is nearly 2 years behind its original
implementation schedule. Major problems in executing these two projects are
directly attributable to a weak government commitment resulting in persistently
poor project management by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) during the
seven years, 1965-73. To attribute responsibility for long implementation
delays either to an inherent inability of Moroccan staff to manage projects
adequately or solely to the PIU would be both misleading and inaccurate. This
has now been clearly demonstrated by the efficiency with which both projects
have been implemented in recent years once essential decisions had been made
by government to create the circumstances within which successful management
could be effected.
2.        Until late 1972, the PIU was an integral part of the Ministry of
Education's "Division de l"Equipement" and the head of the Division combined
this function with the PIU directorship. The twin tasks proved difficult
for the appointee, an architect with little management ability, who could
only devote part of his time to project execution and who had no staff as-
signed full time to assist him. As a consequence, supervision was inadequate,
liaison with IDA was poor and IDA field supervision missions encountered great
difficulties due to the non-availability of responsible officials. In addition,
existing internal government procedures (for instance, approval and dispatch
of project vouchers and contract documents) were cumbersome and slow resulting
in considerable delays in disbursements.
3.        By 1971 the government had been repeatedly informed by letter,
cable and field missions of IDA's concern about the weakness of project
management, implementation delays and communication difficulties. Finally
the government was informed of IDA's decision that evidence of improved per-
formance would be a condition for an agreed extension of the closing date for
the first project and for agreement on an impending second education credit.
4.        The government approved the measures suggested by IDA, including the
appointment of full-time staff, and on this basis the closing date was extended
and a new credit was approved for a second education project in late 1971.
Since the project involved the construction of institutions for other minis-
tries (Labour and Agriculture) as well as for Education, an Inter-Ministerial
Committee was established to ensure coordination and effective implementation.
5.        However, in spite of these agreements, the management of the two
projects continued weak and deteriorated even further. The Inter-Ministerial



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Committee was ineffectual and there were delays in recruitment of full-time
project staff and consultant architects. In June 1972, the government was
informed that unless steps were taken to carry out IDA's required measures and
recommendations, suspension of the two credits was envisaged.
6.        The government acted.  The PIU was separated from the "Division de
l'Equipement;" a new PIU director was appointed full time (the new incumbent
until then had been an able Director of Educational Planning and he still
remains director of the PIU at this time); full-time staff were appointed
including a deputy, accountants and equipment specialists; procurement and
contracting procedures were simplified; and the Secretary of State in the
Prime Minister's Office was authorized to be kept informed of progress (in-
cluding receipt of all correspondence between IDA and PIU) and to take steps
necessary to expedite the project. The same Secretary of State still continues
with these duties.
7.        Following these actions, and taking into account reasonable delays
as a result of the new arrangements, both project since 1973 have been imple-
mented with diligence and efficiency. Excellent relations have been estab-
lished between IDA and the PIU which is now staffed by experienced and able
personnel working with well-established and smoothly functioning routines
and procedures. Difficulties are anticipated neither in the completion of
the second project nor in the implementation of the proposed third project,
given the additional staffing of the PIU envisaged for the supervision of the
third project.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OVERALL PROJECTION OF MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS 1973-1985
1973                 1973             1977                          Average           1977             1985                          Average
Stock                           Net            Annual           Stock                            Net           Annual
1/           Estimated   2/      Surviving to       Requirei          Demand        Demand        Surviving to       Requireg        Denand          Demand
Occupational Levels-           Manpower Stock-            1977    3/      Stock -/      1973-1977       1973-1977         1985    -        Stock         1977-1985       1977-1985
1.  Professionals and                   44,000                 41,000           67,000          26,000           5,200          53,000          93,000           40,000          4,400
Higher Technicians                  (1.17.)                                 (1.4%)                                                          (1.4%)
(Cadres)
2.  Middle-Level Technicians           164,000                152,000          207,000          55,000         11,000          163,000         286,000          123,000         13,700
(Agents de Maitrise)                (4.2%)                                 (4.3%)                                                           (4.37.)
3.  Skilled Workers                    245,000                231,000          346,000         115,000         23,000          272,000         479,000          207,000         23,000
(Agents Qualifies)                  (6.47.)                                (7.3%)                                                           (7.3%)
4.  Semi-skilled Workers             1,426,000              1,315,000        1,517,000         202,000         40,400        1,198,000       2,099,000          901,000         100,100
(Agents Specialises)               (36.9%)                                (31.97)                                                          (31.9%.)
TOTAL                            1,879,000              1,739,000       2,137,000          398,000         79,600       1,686,000        2,957,000       1,271,000         141,200
5.  Unskilled Workers                1,981,000                              2,618,000                                                        3,623,000
(51.4%)                                (55.1%)                                                          (55.1%)
GRAND TOTAL                      3,860,000                              4,755,000                                                        6,580,000
1/  For the purpose of this projection the educational background "required" for each occupational group was defined as follows  (Plan*, Vol II, page 751):
Group Code                       Occupational Group                                Educational Background (Years of Training)
1.  (levels 5-6)        Professionals and Higher Technicians          15-18 years (complete secondary school plus 3-6 years of training)
2.  (level 4)            Middle-level Technicians                     13-14 years (about 7 years of secondary plus 1-2 years of training)
3.  (level 3)            Skilled Workers                              11-14 years (4-6 years of secondary plus 2-3 years of training)
4.  (level 2)            Semi-skilled                                  7-8  years (2-3 years of secondary plus short courses)
2/ Plan*, Vol II, page 756
3/ Assuming an attrition rate of2.0% p.a. (implicit in Plan* projection - Vol II, page 757)
4/ Plan*, Vol II, page 756
5/ Assuming an attrition rate of 3.0% p.a. (more realistic than Plan's* assumption and still conservative)
6/  Assuming that:   (i)  total employment will grow at about 3.0% p.a.
(ii) 1977 employment structure will remain unchanged
*National Development Plan, 1973-77



KINGDOM OF MDROCCO
ENROLLMENT GRO.H IN FORIAL EDUCATION 1970-75
1970/71                               1971/72                               1972/73                                1973/74                                1974/75
LEVEL                Male    Femle   TOTAL          %.  Male        Female    TOTAL    %          Male    Female   TOTAL        %       Male    Female   TOTAL         %       Male    Femle    TOTAL   |.
Prim_ry
Public               748,610  373,360  1,121,970   95.5   275,245  396,062  1,171,307   95        7 95,058  420,949  1,216,007   95.3   833,466  450,260  1,283,726   95.9   881,888 481,990  1,363,878   96.5
Private               28,708   24,599     53,307    4.5     33,686   26,943     60,629    5        33,457   26,393     59,850    4.71   29,902   24,303       54,205    4.1    .27,447   22,668      50,115    3.5
Total                777,318  397,959  1,175,441  100      808,931  423,005  1,231,936  100       828,515  447,342  1,275,857  100      863,368  474,563  1,337,931  100       909,335  504,658  1,413,93  100
Percentage            66.1     33.9      100                65.7    34.3        100                64.9    35.1       100                64.5      35.5      100                64.3      35.7      100
Secondary
Public               196,268   72,112    268,380   89.8   204,379   79,997    284,376   90.7   216,061   90,837    306,898   91.6   233,617  103,572    337,189   93.2    258,841  119,930    378,771   93.8
Private               18,115   12,385     30,500   10.2     17,039   12,009      29,048    9.3     16,625   11,429     28,054    8.4     11,850   12,686      24,536    6.8     13,830   11,072      24,902    6.2
Total                214,383   84,497    29, 880  100      221,418   92,006    313,424  100       232,686  102,266    334,952  100      245,467  116,258    361,725  100       272,671  131,002    403,673  100
Percentage            71.7     28.3      100                70.6     29.4       100                69.5    30.5       100                67.9    32.1        100                67.5      32.5      100
UniveraitL
Mohmed V               9,734    2,021     11,755   92.7     11,025    2,335      13,360   94.6    14,825    3,104      17,929   95.4    16,236    3,876       20,112   96.9
Quaraouyine              876       44        920    7.3        703       45         748    5.4        813       58        871    4.6        583        57        640    3.1
Total                 10,610    2,065     12,675  100       11,728    2,380      14,108  100       15,638    3,162     18,800  100        16,819    3,933     20,752  100
Percentage            83.7     16.3      100                83.1      16.9      100                83.2     16.8      100                81.0      19.0      100
Teacher
Training                 859       38        897               997       43       1,040             3,245      337      3,582              4,234      539      4,773
secondary
Percentage            95.58     4.2      100                95.9      4.1       100                90.6      9.4       100                88.7      11.3     100
Source: Annuaires Statiatiquea, Minist&re de l'ducation Nationale
A includes primary teacher training



KINGDOM OF MORDCCO
PUBLIC EPiENDITURES - EDUCATION & TRAINING 1970-1975
(in millions of DH, current prices)
1970       1971        1972        1973      1974       1975
1.  G. D. P.                                      16,960     18,570      19,900      20,991    29,391
2.  Central Government Budget:  Recurrent          3,043      3,124       3,594       3,995     6,646      9,463
Capital          1,133      1,308       1,609       2,238     3,337      6,288
Total            4,176      4,432       5,203       6,233     9,983    15,751
3.  Budget of Iinistries of Education:
Recurrent          625        690         792         935      1,018    1,319
Capital             58          75        106         258         430      572
Total              683        765         898       1,193      1,448    1,891
4. Budget of other Ministries (Training):
Recurrent           40        ...          42          66          89      120
Capital              8         ...        ...          43         104      100
Total               48         ...        ...         109         193      220
5. Total of Public Budgets in relation
to Education and Training (3+4):
Recurrent          665         ...        834       1,001      1,107    1,439
Capital             66         ...        ...         301         534      672
Total              731         ...        ...       1,302      1,641    2,111
6. Total Public Expenditure on education
as percentage of total central govern-
ment budget:                 Recurrent        21.9Z          ...      23.2%       25.1x      16.7%    15.4%
Capital           5.8%         ...        ...       13.5%      16.0      10.7%
Total            17.5%         ...        ...       20.9%      16.4%    13.4h
7. Total Public Expenditure on education
as percentage of G. D. P.                      4.3%         ...         ...        6.2%.
Source:  a) G. D. P. - World Bank economic report
b) Central Government Budaet of the Ministries of Education
c) Budget of other Ministries (Training): 1970 et fonctionnement 1973, 1974 et 1975 -
"Education au Maroc - Problemes prioritaires" - Unesco, mars 1974
Equipement 1973, 1974 et 1975 - Secr6tariat d'Etat au Plan et au Developpement Regional
Fonctionnement 1972 - Plan 1973-1977, Vol. II, p. 745



Kincdomi of Morocco
C-'tal 5usiJear  Ailz-atLr - - -G.aim ns7,19S73-75- _ ernent l'initrk es Other ",an 11finistries of Education
(ln Dh OOs, current prices)
Ministry                        1973             1971                 1975
Office of the Monarchy                          600             1,000                  400
Planningr and Regional Development            1,573             6,994                2,980
National Assistance and Artisanat             4,195             7,433                5,760
Administrative Af'fairs                         200               _                  1,250
-info rmation                                    70O 0
Iourism                                         546             1,9M6                2,018
Justice                                         500               400                  594
Home Affairs                                  6,977            22,089                6,899
'Urban Development and HousinZ                  600             4,121                1,t38
Finance                                         500               707                  500
Commerce, Industrr and Mining1 4,460                           10,536               13,925
Agriculture                                  11,463            10,834               15,004
Public Works and Communication                7,159            12,558               16,932
Posts and Telegraphs                             18             4,000                6,000
Labour and Social Affairs                     3,508            20,487               23,801
Health                                          100             1,000                2,000
Total                                   43,399           104,145               99,501
Source: Secretariat d'Etat au Plan et au Developpement R6-ional.



KINGDOM OF MDROCCO
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS 1974-1985
MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION
Level                         1974/5       1975/6       1976/7       1977/8       1978/9      1979/80      1980/1       1981/2       1982/3        1983/4       1984/5
PRIMARY (Grades I - V)                1,363,878   1,459,692   1,576,926   1,715,375   1,872,890   2,048,753   2,240,200   2,441,620   2,646,885   2,851,287   3,052,013
SECONDARY
2/
Lower Cycle (GradesVI - IX)             287,832     321,497      358,132      398,885      444,071      493,912      549,096      610,394      678,562       754,399      838,780
Upper Cycle (Grades X - XTI)]            87,017       92,820       98,363     104,076       110,068     115,388      121,219      127,359       134,243      141,686      149,599
HIGHER (Grades XIII +)4                  28,1755      30,875      32,955       36,245       39,775       43,675       47,975       53,175       57,575        63,476       70,030
TEACHER TRAINING
(Grades x - XI)                  3,922        4,301        6,200        6,311        6,231        8,251        8,250        8,250        8,250        8,250        8,250
1/ Assumes government goal of 100% enrollment of 7 year olds by 1995; gradually improving repetition and drop-out rates.
2/  Assumes government goal of 12% increase in new annual intake and improving repetitiG.n and drop-out razes.
3/ Assums goverrment goal of 5.5% increase in new annual intake and improving repetition and drop-out rates.
4/ Assumes government goal at 100,000 total enrollment in 1990; includes higher teacher training; includes secondary teacher training,
5/ Estimated



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Projection of Public Expenditures on Education
Ministries of Education 1975 - 1985
Additional Student    Estimated Unit    Total Investment           Projected  Public Recurrent
Places Required        Capital Cost           Required             Expenditures on Education
1975-85           Per Student Place  Amount    Percentages               in 1985
(1975 Prices)    (DH millions)              Amount       Percentages
-  _    (DH)   _DH E"ifllions n
1.   Primary                1,688,000               1,300          2,194         41.0        1,566            54.5
2.   Lower Secondary           550,000              3,600          1,980         37.0          562            19.5
3.   Upper Secondary 1/         66,911              5,000            334          6.2          235              8.2
4.   Higher 2                   42,000             20,000            840         15.2          352            12.3
5.   Administration              n.a.               n.a.            n.a.                       160              5.5
Total                                                              5,348        100.0        2,875           100.0
1/    Includes primary teacher training
2/    Includes secondary teacher training
Source: Staff estimate



ANNEX 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ESTIMATED RECURhENT EXPENDITURES FUR
FORMAL SCHOOLING, 1985
Estimated-        Unit Costs2/        Total Costs
Enrollments       in 1975 Dhs       in OOOs
Educational Level         Grades      in OOOs       %                      1975 Dhs
Primary                       I- V     3,052.0      74.1          5133/   1,565,676.o       54.5
Lower Secondary              VI-IX        838.7     20.4          67 OL       561,929       19.5
Upper Secondary               X-XII      157.8       3.         1,4904/       235,122        8.2
(including primary
teacher training)
Higher                     XII +           70.0      1.7        5,034         352,380       12.3
(including secondary
teacher training)
Administration                            n.a.                    n.a.        160,000        5.5
TOTAL                             4,118.5   100.0                      2,075,102*     100.0
* Corresponds to 6.3 percent of GDP.
1/ Assumes (i) substantial improvements in efficiency at primary and secondary levels;
(ii) intake into primary equivalent to 85 percent of 7 year olds by 1985 (consistent
with 1973-77 plan target of 100 percent by 1995); (iii) 12 percent annual expansion
of intake to lower secondary, fr) 55 percent annual expansion of intake to upper
secondary; (v) expansion of higher enrollments to meet government target of 100,000
by 1990.
2/ Assumes 3 percent p.a. real increase in salaries.
3/ Assumes a 10 percent increase for qualitative improvements.
4/ Allows for Moroccanisation of teaching force.
51 Permits small increase, takes into account the effects of computerisation in the
ministries' administration.



KINGDOM OF AnRnCCo
ENROLLMENTS. OUTPUTS. PUPIL/TEACHER RATIOS AND USE FACTORS
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Maximum
Course    Total Annual    Annual    Pupil/Teacher    No. of Weekly                  Use Factors
INSTITUTION                   No.   Level         Length      Enrollment      Output         Ratio             Periods       Classrooms    Labs/Workshops
Primary Schools                      47    Primary       5 years   9,400             1,880     40:1              32                 87             28
Secondary Schools                     5    Secondary    7 years   6,000             1,430      22:1              37                 80             54 - 70
Teacher Training College              1    Higher        1 year       275              275     16:1              38                 77             58
( Secondary General)
Technical Colleges-/                  5    Secondary    3 years   4,170              1,325     10:1              32 - 38            78             61 - 87
Applied Engineering1/                 1    Higher      2-3 years      240              100      7:1              32 - 40            75             39 - 67
Training Institute
Technical Teacher Training            1    Higher      1-3 years      466              205      9:1              22 - 38            80             45 - 84
College and
Demonstration School!/                     Secondary    3 years       390              130     10:1              36 - 38            80             45 - 84
Hotel Training School                 1    Secondary    3 years       180               60     12:1               35 - 40           80             25 - 90
Hotel Training Centers                4    Secondary    1 year        520              520     30:1               36                77             27 - 90
Meknes Rural Development              1    Secondary    2 weeks   2,400              2,400      12:1              36                80              n.a.
and Extension Centre
College of Public Health              1    Higher       12 weeks      780              540      10:1              20 - 35           82             48 -75
to 2 years
Medical Technicans Training Unit    I    Higher          2 years       80               40      10:1              20                80             69
Health Training Centers               3    Higher        2 years      3603/            180     20:1               20                80              n.a.
1/ Proposed by mission as basis for engineering study.
2/  Includes 1,600 extension agent refresher courses.
3/  Includes 120 places in existing facilities.
n.a. - not applicable



.~~ 3                         N a 9 o  n *0   F2                                        0wIn "    
i~ l        N C   i1                      w         A                n g                    a         n,.     
i;a _
nt             slog   g                  t                     -gg  - sn N o
S             1        - ---   -  -----    --  --------         - - ----  --
---1!------------s----      --------------------------
--- ------------ --------- -s--'-''------ s ---------- ---------------------------------------------- 
-    tN                         0 0  0,  0.U
Irl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II~~~~~~~~~Z
it~ ~~~B1 o>o 
t1  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~N00



ANNEX 13
MOROCCO III
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total    % of
-Moroccan DH Millions-    ----US$ Millions------    Total
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities              39.99   13.33    53.32       10.00   3.33    13.33    34.7
Boarding                  17.74    5.91    23.65         4.43   1.48      5.91    15.5
Staff housing              8.71    2.90    11.61         2.18   0.73      2.91      7.5
Site development           7.99    2.66    10.65         2.00   0.66      2.66      6.7
Consultant architects'
fees                     6.32    1.20       7.52      1.58   0.30       1.88     5.0
Subtotal                  80.75   26.00   106.75       20.19   6.50    26.69    69.4
Furniture:                    2.31    5.38      7.69       0.58   1.34      1.92      4.9
Equipment:                    2.61   23.53    26.14        0.65   5.89      6.54    17.1
Subtotal                   4.92   28.91    33.83         1.23   7.23      8.46    22.0
Technical assistance:
Engineering design         2.38    2.38       4.76       0.59   0.60      1.19      3.1
Specialists, fellow-
ships, computerization
of M.O.E. and Project
Implementation           1.24    7.18       8.42      0.31   1.79       2.10      5.5
Subtotal                   3.62    9.56    13.18         0.90   2.39      3.29      8.6
Baseline cost
(excluding
contingencies)        89.29   64.47   153.76       22.32  16.12    38.44   100.0
Contingencies:               51.34   33.05    84.39       12.84   8.26    21.10    54.9
Total project cost       140.63   97.52   238.15        35.16  24.38    59.54
Rate of exchange: US$1.00 - DH4.00



ANNEX 11
MOROCCO III
Unit Capital Costs-/ and Area per Student
Type of Facilities               Area/Student.?!   Buildings   Furniture   Equipment   Total
---- M    -          --------   U.S. $ -------------------
Primary schools:
Academic & communal                3.2              520          45           45         610
Staff accommodation/              500             6,200          --          --         6,200
staff member                    5.                ,0                                   ,0
Secondary schoolst
Academic & communal                4.0              740          66         348 3/      1,154
Boarding/boarder                   9.5            1,950         174           --       2,124
Staff housing/unit'               87.0           17,800          --           --      17,800
Regional Teacher Training:
Academic & communal                6.2            1,230         110          6753/      2,015
Boarding/boarder                   9.8            2,000         177           --       2,177
Staff housing/unit                92.0           19,200          --           --      19,200
Hotel Schools:
Academic & communal               10.7            2,277         202       2,703  3/    5,182
Boarding/boarder                    9.6           1.983         176                     2,159
Staff housing/unit               107.0           22,416         --          --         22,416
Hotel Training Centers:
Academic & communal                11.9          2,110          189       3,150 2/      5,449
Boarding/boarder                   10.7          1,900          170         --          2,070
Staff housing/unit               107.0           22,500          --         --        22,500
Rural Development and Extension
Training Center:
Academic & communal                13.2           2,280         204         1,700 3/   4,184
Boarding/boarder                   9.6             1,980        178           __        2,158
Staff housing/unit                85.0           17,700          --           --       17.700
College of Public Health:
Academic & communal                 5.1           1,150         103           340 2/   1,593
Boarding/boarder                    9.6           1,950         178           __        2,128
Staff housing/unit                70.0           14,500          --           -_      14,500
Health Training Centers:5/
Academic & communal 6/              4.0              785         70           493       1,348
Boarding/boarder  7/               12.0           2,500         205           500       3,205
1/ Based on unit cost prices without including regional price differences; professional
fees and contingencies not included
2/ Not including covered areas, cost of which is included in cost of buildings
3/ Includes kitchen equipment
4/ Includes 3.2 m2 of existing facilities
5/ Attached to existing hospitals
6/ Does not include dining-kitchen
7/ Includes dining-kitchen



MOROCCO 111
Continaeacy Allowances
Technical Assistace            _                                     Total Contingencie-
Consultant       Engineering                                                                     s 2. of    as7. of Project
Civil Siorks      Furniture         gSeJ,pent    Architects' P.os    Preparation        Soecialists      FelloushiPs       Total Prolect Cost         Total        Cost without
Local Foreign   Local Poreian   Local Foreign   Local  Foreisn   Local  Forign   Local  Foreign   LOCAL  Foreign   Local Persian  Total   Proiect Coat   C'tntafecies
Conting.ncise (as 7. of project cost):
Unforssen                             10      10       10       10       10      10        10      10        5       5         5       5        5        5
Price sscalstion                      46      46       32      32        32      32       33.5    33 5      235    2          23,5    23.5     23.5    23,5
Total6                                        6_.              4                 45.2     46.8    468       29.     2                  9.7     29.7    291
Project cost (without contingencies):
Millions 1j                        74.40   24.80     2.31    5.38      2.61   23.53      6.32    1.21     2.38    2.38      1.20    6.88     0.04    0.20    89.29   64.47  153.76
Millions UsS                       18.60    6.20     0.58    1.35      0.65    5.89      1.58    0.31     0.60    0.60      0.30    1.72     0.01.'  0 05    22.32   16.12   38.44
7. Foreign exchange                           25                70               90                16               50                85                85                44
Contingencies (_otnts):
Unforeseen
Millions D8                         7.44    2.48     0.23    0.54      0.26    2.35      0.63    0.12     0.12    0.12      0.06    0.35      0.00    0.01     8.74    7.54   16.28
Killions USS                        1.86    0.62     0.06    0.13      0.07    0.59      0.16    0.03     0,03    0.03      0.01    0.09     0.00    0.00      2.19    1.88L3 4.07
Price escalation
Millions DR                        37.65   12.55     0.81    1.89      0,93    8.28      2.33    0.44     0.59    0.59      0.29    1.70      0.00    d.05    4Z.60   25.51   68.11
Millions US$                        9.41    3.15     0.20    0.48      0 .3    2.06      0.58    0.11     0,15    0.13      0 08    0.42     0 00    0.02    10.65    6.38   17.03
Subtotal
millions TM                        45.09   15.03     1,04    2.44      1.19   10.63      Z.96    0.56     0.71    0.71      0.35    2.05      0.00    0.06    51.34   33.05   84.39
millions US5                       11.27    3.77     0.26    0.61      0.30    2.63      0.74    0.14     0.18    0.18      0,09   0.1       0.00    0.02    12 84   8.26   2.J&           35.4           54-9
% Foreign exchange                            25                70               90                16                50               85                85                40
Total project cost (with contingenciel:
Millions W8                       119.49   39.83     3.35    7.82      3.80   34.16      9.28    1.77     3.b9    3.09      1.55    8.93      0.04    0.26   140.63   97.52  238.15
Millions US$                       29.87    9.97     0.84    1.96      0.95    8.54      2.32    0.44     0.78    0.78      0.39    2.23      0.01    0.07    35.16   24.38   59.54
% Foreign exchange                            25                70                90               16                50                85               85                43
Rate of exchange: USI.00 - DH 4.00
1/  Price escia.tion c...ed on basi- of folloving annol iccrease,   1975  122k  1977  1978  1979
Civil rTks and consltnt architects' fees                            16%   147.  12%   12%   12.
Potriture snd equip.ent                                             12%   10X    87   8e    8%
Technical assistance                                                 87.   8%    87   87   8X
2f  Price escalation compoted On the ptoject cost i.cl.ding the physical unforeseen contingency.
V   Increased fEr   $1.49 a in order to round off loan to $25,0 s.



MOROCCO III
Implementation Schedule
bo                                                                                0o
4                                                                                Q) -4    0,4
t                                                                                -I t      0n
co                                                                                        0 0
o                                                                                kO       1
I                I   Implementation Period         I                 I            I
Quarters
Mobilization and                     2   1   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  1l  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22
Project Administration               =   =             - =   =   =   =   =   =       -   -   - =      =    =    =           -   -   -
Appointment of additional staff
to the p.u. of Ministry of Educ.
1. Implementation Officer         mm                                                                  
2. Architect                           _   _        _   _   _   _
5. Civil works supervisor                              lose m _  _  =
Recruitment and appointment
of specialists to the C.P.U.
1. Architect                          mm 
2. Short-term consultancies          aimsLiii. sm o g s
Appointment of the architects
of Ministry concerned
1. Ministry of Tourism                m             - _      -   -   -   -   -                                  _       '     _   _   _
2. Ministry of Agriculture            mIt       -T-                                   --                    - -         
3. Ministry of Public Health          *    - _   _                                - _     -           u _   _   _  |  _
_______    L-                                                                                                                     -   l I___              _ 
Key:
I"II"IIIIL Recruitment                                                                                                           Oz
Duration
a



ANNEX 16
Page 2
MOROCCO I1!
ImplementnLioLn Schelule
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education            a     t      v
sUjjUEI  Primary schools                               f     O,
5500                                                                                            1
§econdary schools and teacher             i          i     r   u v
training college                       u      I o   v. .4                                                   t       period
0 vuX nff                                              Implementation  Period                      I     I
Engineering design for technical         _
colleges and teacher training          11  L' IlI      0 9                             --           -      Q.&rters
R                                           
Selection of consultant architects and engineers                                                  JIs
Preparation of lists                                   X -
Review and verification of qualifications              x                                          _
Selection of candidates                                X    4+
Submission of the short list and conditions
of contacts to the Bank                              X
Signing of contracts and submission of a               X
copy to the Bank
Selection andacquistion of sites and survey vlass
Identification and survey of sites                     0    X
Acquisition                                            0    X
Submission of site survey plans (and wshere
applicable, overall development site plan            X                                             _       _ 
of existing institution)  nd evidence of
acquisition to the Bank
Preparation of space standards and briefs for
consultant architects and engineers
Space standards and functional specifications          X   +
Schedules of implementation                           yx
Submission of apace standards and schedules            X
of implementation to the Bank
Authorization to architects and engineers              X
to comnence schematic designs
Schematic designs
Preparation of designs                                               X
Review and comments                                    x    0                                       f  BR
Submission of above docoments to the Bank              X                                            |
Authorization to architects and engineers to           x
proceed with the next phase
Design development and total proiect cost
estimates
Preparation of design and detailed cost                              X
estimatesR
Review and comeents                                    x    0
Submission of above documents to the Bank                                                                   _
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with construction documents phase            X
Construction documents and final cost estimates
Preparation of detailed plans, specifications                        x                                             w u
and cost estimates
Preparation of contract conditions for civil                         X
works and bidding documents
teviuw and verification of construction                X    0
documents and bidding conditions
Submission of above documents to the Bank              X
Agreement to procerd to bid invitation                 X
Civil works hiddin- ,ad co-tract awarding                                                                           B
invitation ond pr-q,alification                        X             0
(where appl-calle)
ir-eipt and evalsartien of bid offers                  X             0
S-t,ntssion of evalslaiolt report to the Bank          X
C-ntract awarding                                      X
iubmission of signed contract to the Bank              X
'.oostmsltoln suyc-rvlqlonX                                                                                           IS             4 |            *   
C.'IILltiui.w,as et-Esi I  sulpervision                                   K       _Il 
Ovcral S srctii Sect l giIcer lsupervlsion and                                                                                                      I
design loplr.eotatlon
;-rift-tion ci vIms of panment                         x             0
SJ,Is:lsstimi of vi thdlawal applicatlon to
beh  au1k                                            X



ANNEX 16
Page 3
KW=ROCCO III
Tmnplementation Schedule
Ministry of Prisnary and Secondary Education           v            X                            a
conitinued                               f
0                                                                                      as   soc 
-  0.    05   . .4 
4,    0      440   40                                       T ,slplesmentation Period                 o.:  cU
0o    0.0   04   04                                                Q                           I       r
a0 i           9                      2 1 1  2  3  4  5  6  7 Q sl  I  112 1213 114115 1617!1819!120 21122
___________________________________________      _     _    _
Lists of fshr.iture desiRn" and cost estimates                                                                   R
Preparatior   of lists and spe-ific-tions                          x
Design of Eurniure, pian layouts and                               x
Reviev and comments                                   x
SuBSMission of above doconents to the Bank            X
Furniture bidding and contract awarding
Preparation of bid docunents, bidding
aod contract conditions                             X
Prequalification (where applicable)                   x
SsbS.insion of above to the Bank                      x
Invitation to bid                                     x
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                  X
s.btission of evaluation report to the Bank           x
Contract avarding and submission of copy              X
of signed contracts to the Bank
Supervision of furniture  -nnfac-urinR  and                                                                                   d  " 11 w 
deliverv
Review and approval of samples or prototypes          X
Irspection and acceptance of furniture and            X
installa-ion where necessary
ve,ificatioa of clai.s  for pyament                   X
Scbhission of withdrawal apslications                 X
to the Bank
lints of ecuisnent. specific-tions and cost
-sti7ates
Praparation of lists, specifications and                     X                                               LR
cost estimates
La-out plans for fixed equipment                             X
Review and co-ents                                    X
S.snission of above documents to the Bank             X
Eiqurient bid2ing and contract a-ardina &I
Preparatia- of hid iocuments, bidding and             x
contract conditions
prequalification (w.ere applicable)                   X
Su-rission ,f above docucents to the Bank             X
Invitation to bid                                     X
Receipt end evaluation of bid offers                  X
Sulrsission .f evalu- ion re-port to the Bank         X
Cestract a--rding ard substi-sion of copy of          X
signed c-.tr-ets to the Bank
Spenei.tin- .f delivery of eqcicWent and
i-tall.Li-tl                                                                                                                   Plolls of 
Prc,sio.ns :or iostsllation of fixed                  X                                      l                                             J
eqo ip-nst
InspectiOn a-4d acceptasnce oi equlipent              X
V-erficati-  of claimn  for pfa.sr  t                 X
SU'A.iS.1'o .'f withdrawal application to                                                                                        f
Key:    X = Primary responsibility
O =Secondary responsibility
+ = Prissary responsibility for technical colleges and teacher training
++ = Secondary responsibility  for technical  colleges  and teacher training
R    Review  by IBRD
R - Review and approval by IBRD



ANNEX 16
Page 4
1(1O(:CCO III
IpleM-ntat-on Schedule
5 Is
a         0. cs        '.               5*8
Ministry of Tourism                                       8              c  v I  c
0 E u        1 a    .5 a c  .                                                                            °
055  05.4  '45   44                                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5z   --~A 
* Z   *  u c   > c   c >    l - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wlmleent               s tionnPeriodd
Q     c        o          c            2 _  _  2  3 04 J5  6  7  8  9  r 1112113 _415116 17 18 _ 92q21 22
lelection of consultant architects and engineers                                                    I 
P-paratio. of lists                            0      .5.      .. oB                                                                                    0
geview and verificatimn of qualificatimns             X      0
Selection of candidate3                               X       0
submi:aiono tf the.short list and conditions
of  Mot&ct  to the Bank                             X
Signing of contracts and submisasion of a             X
copy to the BankR
Selection and acquistion of sites and survey plans                                                     88 
Identification and survey of sites                    X      0
AcquisitionX
Submission of site survey plans (and where 
applicable, overall development site plan           X      0
of existing institutions) *nd evidence of
acquisition to the Bank
Preparation of space standards and briefs for
consultant architects and engineers U
Space staprdards and functional specifications    X           0
Schedules of i.pifnemtation                           X      0
Submission of space standards and schedulas           X
of i0plrmentation to the Bank
Authorization to sarthitects  and  engineers          X
to commence schematic dedsins 
Schematic desiRns                                                                                        UI               
Preparation of designs                                                    X
Review and cerfats                                    X      0
Sobficsion of above docaents to the Bank              X
Authorization to srchitects  and  engineers to        X
pyocted with the next phase
iksig. develop ...t end total Project cost                                                                                               I
estimates                                                                                                      U   ii
?reparation of design and detailed cost                                   X la_
es t i.tes
gevien   and    andents                                      X
Submission of sbove dosur ents to  the Bank           X
Authofisatis- to arthitucts and engineers to
aroceed  with constectim docuents phase             X
cnstructian   dochients and final eer t es tites
repasration of ds  aild d pninsa  specifications                          X
Sndceus ot  impotes
urepbition of spntract conditions for civil                          X    0
works and bidding docuraents
Review and -erifir.tion of constructtlon                     X
d.curenta and bidding conditions
Sobfissi.n  f above dimlmntto  to the    bank         X
Agruetont to pr ccc ed to  bid invitation             X
C;,il works bidding and -nltract awa,tdiny  RJ 
1-iearion  ond preqsisLfiCati                                        X 
(,A.- rapplic .bl.)
Reiept and -o aletion of bid offe r                                  X
S .bmission of .,.I..ti.n report to the Bank          X
C-ntract a.arding                                                    X
Suhnblssion of signed cdoments  to the Bank           x
t strv1-ti'l                                                                                                                             LAI rlsinl       In" U U
1,11sfo.1-.0e.9     -pervtis(n                                                 X                            
1to ircai to-r/cghiecr a perviion end                          X           X
Desien devloonirenlt ad  otle   prjc   ln
lreparationlo Ii of deign  an  PSetat cs                                   X
Submission of hvehd.Al d   ppo Lrcu   to theBak      x
Cos.trucion d'uet  an  fnl cos  esiae                                                                                   *  I



ANNEX 16
Page 5
MDROCCO I 
Impleml'entation Schedule
_ I.._
b  e     *      uiO
Mitnitry of Tpuri..o continued                                     u     u
v                                    U
ot 8        0     4o     sf u                                                                      0 i0
a ts  o         u ,oo%                                    
*           - 0 u  b                                      Implementation Period                          Si u
Ut   u  ii    au   uo                           ~~~~~~Q rter
___________a i±  -  i  "i      I     2  1 I 2  3  4  5  6  7  8   1g  In 121131141 1 16 17118119 21 21122
Lists of furnitur  des ans and cost estisates                                                                    Hu a     JR
PreparatiOn of Lists and specifications                           x      O
Diesign of furniture, plan layout$ and                           X      O
cost estisates
Review and cnRKents 
SubnissioL of above documents to the Bank             X
Fudrniture bideinR *od contract awardin,                            x                                                              l
-Prrtbid9 o b        _idd   ts, bidding
and contract conditicns
Prequalification (where applicable)                               X
Submission of above to the Bank                      x
Invitation to bid                                                x
Receipt end evaluation of bid offers                       o      x
Submission of evaluation report to the Bank          x
Contract awarding and subuission of copy              X           x
of signed contracts to the Bank
Suneryiieon of furniture m,anufacturing and
Review and anproval of sss.ples or prototypes                    x      0
Inc ection arid acceptance of furniture aud                      x      O
installatian where necessary
Ver- fiation of claits for payent                                X
Suliisgion ci withdrawal applications                x
to the BankA
Lists of equiprent. specifications and cost
estim,ates                                                                                                  I       I U IR
Preparation cE lists, specifications and                          0      X
cost estimates                                                                                                 1              .I
Layvut plans ior fixed equipment                                  X      0
Revie  and co~ents                                    X    O                                                                     iIi
Sub_ission of above docusents to the Bank                                                                                        4
Eauiotent biddiag and contract awarding
Preparation c;  bid documents, bidding and                 0      x      0
icctract c.i>ditions
Precjalification (where applicable)                               X
Subr-ssion of al>ove documents to the Bank            x
lnvitation te bid                                                 X
Rcce:pt and evaluation of bid offers                              X
Subr-ssion o evsluat-on report to the Bank           x
Contract awai'ing and suboission of copy of           X           X
s;p.ned c.ntracts to the Bank
Sunper  sion of czlivery of equipopent and
inqstailatton                                                                                                      !               Ij  if !I                     ii
Prc,.ssons fer installation of fixed                             X      0
Vnsppctinn anE acceptasce of equipmonot                           X      0                       i|
Vcr.iicatson of clais for paimont.                                X
S.ibu  slon ot withdrawal applieacion to              S                                          ii '
the                                                                                   _Ink                                         - i 1 -:
Key:    X = Primary responsibility
0 = Secondary responsibility
R - Review by IBRD
R = Review and approval by IBRD



ANNEX 16
Page 6
MOROCCO I 1
Imple-cntation Schedule
013   33       
Ministry of Agriculture                                             o     u        ci                                                                           0
54    .        5%  a033
00.   0      43.4     4 00 O W33_
v co   IV uIm > e   e    rlspleementation  Period _                                     e.u
Qu rters
o0   C        00    v       oe        2  1  1 2  3 4  5  6   7         9 to 1111213 14 11516 ll 1l9.20 21 22
R
3election of consultant architects and engineers                                                   ll
Preparation of lists                                   X
Review *nd verification of qualification                           x
Selection of candidates                                            X
Suboission of the short list and conditions           X
of contacts to the Bank
Signing of contracts and submission of a               X           X
copy to the Bank
Selection and acquistion of sites and survey plans                                                   t
Identification and survey of sites                     X
Acquisition                                            X
Suboission of site survey plans (and where
applicable, overall development site plan           X
of existing institutions) and evidence of
acquisition to the Bank
Preparation of snace standards and briefs for
consultant architects and engineers
Space standards and functional specifications          0           X
Schedules of iaplementation                                        0      X
Submission of space standards and schedules            x
of implementation to the Bank
Authorization to architects and engineers              x
to coonence schematic designs
Schematic designs                                                                                             R
Preparation of designs                                                    x
Review and comments                                    X    0
Submission of above documents to the Bank              _
Authorization to architects and engineers to           x
proceed with the next phase
Design developoent and total project cost
estimates                                                                                                      I '_
Preparation of design and detailed cost                                   X
estimates
Review and comsents                                    X    0
Suboission of above documents to the Bank              X
Authori.ation to architects and engineers to           x
proceed with construction documents phase                                        
Construction documents and final cost estimates
Preparation of derailed plans, specifications                             x
and cost estimates
Preparation of contract conditions for civil                       X      0
worlks and bidding documents
Review and verification of construction                x
documents and bidding conditions
Submnission of above documents to the Bank             x
Agreement to proceed to bid invitation                 X
Civil work  bidding and co-trctr awarding                                                                                    as 1
Invita,ion and preq-alific.tion                                    X x
(where applicable)
fecc-pt and evalation of hid offers                    O           X
Subhe-sion of evaluation report to the Bank            X
iC.utr3ct avarding                                                 X
Suibmission of signed contract to the Bank             X
C-ntrtioril,pervlslon                                                                                                           In mm a Id
c,aIllLk'35 on-site -Iupe-vitson                                                 X
Ov-rall arh.titect/cngiaieer s-perviston and                x
den ,  :o irmpler.eni st ionsl                                                                                                    l    
\Xril.at Ion  'if claims of p-aovmnt                   0           X
Sn,I.,sle siio ,f  tll3tlrhu-l ajplicatt'' 1     ,X
t1h. Iz-ik                                                                                                                   



ANNEX 16
P8ge 7
MOROCCO III
In2lementation Schedule
Ministry of Agriculture continued                             S                                                  8
-c    0            00 
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t state
Furn.tUre ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    0.   44dinRi   0ouens  Sidn  54   -                                                                   04   4 SI
Implementtion Period, b 
Re*4ipt *nd4 5v luatiorQ  rtoeS
o 0   4  0 0~ 5)     -0          2  11 I1 2 13 4 1 5 16 17  8 "9 10 ll1121213 114115 116 171l8119120 121 22
Lis; ssioffIn tare de sis an  ort eti Ites 
reparatio  of rdisn s and  apecificatiofi coy  
ef  Iind  otr:ctd to t 0he tB on
exsign of furniture, plan layote and                               x                                                                       1
cost esntimatea
Review  and capovents                                  X
s.!=issio!5 of above documents to the Banck           x
Fni ture bidding and contract awof ardina                                                                                  I   in
reparfation of      c    e      bdding                            x    -0 
and contract conditions
Prequalifi ation (where applicable)                    X
Submission of above to the Bank                       x
iwit tation to bid                                                 x
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                   S
Submission of evaluation report to the Bonk            X
Contract avarding and submission of copy              x            x
of signed contracts to the tank
Supervision of furniture manufacturis   g end
delivery
Review  and apprval of samples or prototyes            _                  0
Inspection and acceptance of funiture and                          x      0
tnstallatioo vhere nkecessarY
Verification of cWns for payment                                   x
Submission of withdrawal applications                 I
to the Bank
Lists of equinent. specifications and cost
esticates                                                                                                       I                                S
Preparation of lists, spepifications and               X           0
cost estimates
Layaut plmns for fixed equipoent 
Review and com*ente                                    I
SVebrission of above docusents to the Bank             x
Enuipent bidding and contract awardingt                   X
Preparation of bid documentsp bidding and
c'ntract conditions        r
Pre ualification (where appLicable)                                X
Subzrs:sion of above documents to the Bank             I
Inv, tation to bid
R ceipt and evaluatiw of bid offers
Subi-ission of evaluation report to the Bank           I
Contract awarding and submission of copy of            I           X
s-.&n.d contracts to the Sack
%.noerLisOn of deliver, of eou:osoent and
in.t3l tat i M. 
Provini-,s for installationt of fixed                  I           0
cc'sipocot                                                       0
insr.eti.n an.d acceptance of equipmentX0
Ver-ification of claibs  for pam,eut                            . 
Sub-ssics, of s.thdr-val appication to                I
t~e Bank
Key:    X - Primary responsibility
o - Secondary responsibility
R =Review by IBRD
R = Review and approval by IBRD



AIINEX 16
Page 8
MOROCCO 11I
Impleoentation Schedule
Ministry of Health                                  A            W.
.0 0     0  ~         8
re          044 o4 eV                   - t                                                     -  t**
b0    . U   '                               Implementation  Period
444      0 
44 S                                         m''    b  ena  e n :Quartese
o 4 o       8 o               2  1 1 2  3  4  5  6  7 8 9 floll2i12114 IS l6117 l&119t20 21'22
Selection of consultant architects and engineers
Preparation of lists                                     X     0
Review and verification of qualifications                x     0
Selection of candidites                                        x
Submipsion of th' short list and conditions         X
of contacts to the Bank
Signing of contracts and submission of a            S          X
copy to the Bank
Selection andsceuistion of sites and survey plans                                             S U aS
Identification and  urvey of ites                   X          0
AcquisitionS                                                   O
SubUission of  ite survey plans (snd where                     0
*pplicable, overall development site plan n
of existing institutions) and evidence of
acquisition to the Bank
Preparation of chtce standards snd briefs for
consultant architects and engineers
Space *stndards snd functional specifications           X
Schedules of implementation                         0   S      0
Submission of space standards and schedules         x
of implementation to the Bank
Authorization to architects and engineers           X
to comence schematic designs
Schematic desisns                                                                                U R
Preparation of designs                                                X
Review and coetents                                      A
Submision of above docments to the Bank             S
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with the next phase                       x
Design develooment and total orolect cost
estimates                                                                                            imi
Preparation of design and detailed cost                               X
estimates
Review and comments                                     '      0
Submision of above documents to the Bank           S
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with construction documents phase         x
Construction docuoent and final cost estimates                          XOU
Preparation of detailed plans, specifications                         K
and cost estimates
Preparation of contrect conditions for civil             0     0      S
works and bidding documents
Review and verification of constructiOn                  X     0
docunents and bidding conditions
Submsission of above documents to the Bank          S
Agreement to proceed to bid invitation              S
Ctvil works biddine snd contract awardine
invitatimn snd prequalification                                S 
(where applicable)
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                     0     S
Submission of cvaluation report to the Bank         K
Contract awarding                                              x
Submission of signed contract to the Bank           x
C.'ostruction supeTVislin                                                     S                                                 W t     I
i'.421 Imcus Son-Site supervislfitt                                         X
V-erail *r,bite.-c/engtcer s,.perviaion and              X     0
des ipun iep I . r.t*t aton
teriffe,arlfo   I Clales of pvs-.ot                 0    0     S
Sol'ssi8N; 4ot w,thdtrawal applicatlon to           X
thle ^lk-kjl                                                                                                                                  



ANNEX 16
Page 9
WMROCCD III
Implementation Sciedule
o       e    * u           a  
Ministry of Nialth continued                         @ v
U:         .0    .     0m  3
5..  a"            05   40           in                                                       I4   44
* 0.  0     0°4     6 *       O S                                                                 us v
u5            0     11                                                                            5-   0
b   _     4 O4 U4 X3 U                                                                               SeUg        
u ie                                                    W - eg~  le v _  __ _ Implementation Period  Al Q  u
' o   e    e      21_ _2  3      S  67 8  rt   n12 3 3          14 _101 11 1121   16117118119120 21122
LUtt: of furniture desians and cost estimates                                                                E lN1 l
Preparation of list  nd specifications                         S     O
Design of fumiture, plan layouts and                           X     O
cost estimates
Review and ceate ents                                   O 
Submission of above docuatK to the Bank            X
Furn'tur  biddinR  and contrgct awarding
Preparation of tid docu Ients, biddiuS                  O      X
and contract conditions                                            0
Prequalification (where applicable)                           x
Submis8ion of above to the Bank                    X
Invitation to bid                                             X
Receipt and evaluation of bid offars                          x      O
Submission of evaluation report to the Bank       X
Coritrct awarding and submission of copy           X          X
cf eigned contracts to the Bank
Sunervision of furniture nanufacturins and
delivery
Review and approval of saples or prototypes                   X
Inspection and acceptance of furniture and               K    O
installation where necessary
Verification of caima for payennt                             i
Su,rission of withdrawal applications             X
to the Bank
Lists of equiment. secifications and cost                                                                      R
estisates                -i t
Preparation of lists, apecifications and                      X
cJt estimates
Layout plans for fixed equipment                               X     0
Rev:ev and cosents                                 K
Subtission of above docuaents to the Bank          x
Equipment bidding and contract awarding
Pretaration of bid docueents, bidding and               0      X     0
contract conditions
Prequalification (where applicable)                            K
Subf:ssion of above documents to the Bank          X
Invitation to bid                                                                              i
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                           x
Sub=ission of evaluation report to the Bank        X
ConTr ct awarding and submission of copy of
s.sned contracts to the Bank                     X          X
Supcrsision of delivery of eouinment and
ins t a'. atiSton                                            .                                                                          n S u
Prosisions f'r tnstallation of fixed                          X
c; lipment
Tespection and a-ceptance of equipment                        K
V-r-.tietion of claimO for paywent                            X
SulsbLsaton of withdrawal application to           x
t~e D3ank
Key:   X - Primary resportsibility
0 - Secondary responsibility
R - Review by IBRD
R = Review and approval by IBRD



ANNEX 17
MOROCCO III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
.(US$ millions)
Accumulated
Disbursements          Disbursements      Undisbursed Balance
Semester 1/  Amount  Percent        Amount  Percent        Amount  Percent
25.00  100.0
First Year
1         0.30       1.2          0.30     1.2            24.70    98.8
2         0.30       1.2          0.60     2.4            24.40    97.6
Second Year
3         0.40       1.6          1.00     4.0            24.00    96.0
4          0.58      2.3          1.58     6.3            23.42    93.7
Third Year
5          2.71     10.9          4.29    17.2            20.71    82.8
6          6.27     25.0         10.56    42.2            14.44    57.8
Fourth Year
7         6.84     27.4          17.40    69.6             7.60    30.4
8          5.21     20.8         22.61    90.4             2.39     9.6
Fifth Year
9          1.23      5.0         23.84    95.4             1.16     4.6
10         1.16      4.6          25.00   100.0             0.00    0.0
1/ Beginning from date of Loan Agreement






IBRD 11847
-, ~        SOVIET                                                                                                                              MALAGAAIYR
/      AUST'     -  -- CA
_ _UNGARY                                                                                                                                 P    A  I N
At/antic                           IV  K,   '-, RO ,o,NIA.
Ocean                         -27ALR    IAVI                                                                                                                                                                     m
SP AI NI,o,
RKE                                                                                                           AN
ArrSA$   tY o4oJlJ'KIGOM FMROCCO  Sp
ALGEtIA                                                                                                                                                                 D                                                                        ADU
t~ ~      ~ L Is 8                                                ,, AAO
IARAB
REP4nx OF                °R 3                                                                                                                   M <ik. ,/  dar MEdO 5CNAY COL
IEGYPT
MAUR           M'APLIENI INS
'IANIA                  NGA mI m    e HC`H.D.    , J..NIGO Y  CH   1SLD
',                                          --"                                                                                                                              I                                       rc                   Jer
Or Y50a 4~~~~~~~~.o Ye AAo mapd~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c it 
R2ex ;>./ T A R F A Y A ! n R R COLLEGE OF PUBLIC HREALT
,  TcfTcyG           (3                                     !          '/                                                                                +                       MEDICAL TECHNICIANS TRAINING UNIT~~~~L  F
-    OAIN ROAD S
SECONDIARY .ODACEUtS
----- TRACKSL
-RAILROADS
BORNDARCIAS ROORDARIES
TO 050 EVENS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AF                                                    l
I~~~R   I~~~~~O           / Taroadunni    -'             Tozoriosht             Agdz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Klr-,-&dni   I
fOSRLIETIS ENGNESIN
/ s           II        ISO                                                           R-                                                                                                                       0       TECNIAL  OLLGE
HYNSYTE                                                                                                           TECANICANDOMLO TEAOCRRCRIINO  DL
U   A  P  Z  4 -z                       THIRD   EDUC~~~~~~~~~ANDDIONDTRATOJESHOO
CONHOTELTTRAININGINGEOODL
HD/FR7DWVRPDPA/                                                                                                                                                           HOTEL DRAINING CENTERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OHIEN
~~---------~~~~~~~~~~-T Tn R     F                  A---                                                              ---COLLUMEGE OF PRIMAYCHEALTH
APPIEDILECNGINEEIANGTRAINING INSITUT
UT                       TIOdDAR                                                                                   H                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOEALT STAFFTAINING CENTERS



