Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7560
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1130-CE)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the perfonnance of
their officil dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACCSL       -   Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka
AMP         -   Accelerated Mahaweli Programme
BC          -   British Council
BSM         -   Basic Skill Module
CHPB        -   Centre for Housing, Planning and Building
CITB        -   Construction Industry Training Board
CITP        -   Construction Industry Training Project
DE          -   District Engineer
DOL         -   Department of Labour
GOSL        -   Government of Sri Lanka
ICTAD       -   Institute for Construction Training and Development
IDA         -   International Development Association
IFOAPCA     -   International Federation of Asia and Pacific Contractors'
Association
MHE         -   Ministry of Higher Education
MLGHC       -   Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
NAB         -   National Apprenticeship Board
NHDA        -   National Housing Development Authority
NIBM        -   National Institute of Business Management
NSCCI       -   National Steering Committee for the Construction Industry
NTCCI       -   National Training Committee for the Construction Industry
SCCI        -   Secretaries' Committee for the Construction Industry
SD & CC     -   State Development and Construction Corporation
SDR         -   Special Drawing Rights
SEC         -   State Engineering Corporation
UK          -   United Kingdom
USD or US$  -   United States Dollars



FOR OFFICIAUL USE OrNLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oike of Doctrawa'
Opmatm tEvwakutwn
December 30, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Pass-Through Audit Report on Sri Lanka - Construction
Industry Training Project (Credit 1130-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Pass-Through Audit Report on Sri Lanka - Construction Industry Project
(Credit 1130-CE)" prepared by Resources Development Consultants, Ltd.
on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, with an overview memorandum
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a trescted distribution and nmay be used by recipbents only in the perfionrmnc
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_hi _ouethsarsrce  itiuinadmy eue  yrcpet nyIh  efrac



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1130-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
Preface ....................................................    i
Data Sheets..........................                                        ii
Highlights .................................................    v
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND          ........................................ .         1
(a) Socio-Economic Setting                        ...   1
(b) Sector Setting                           . . .    5
(c) Trends in Construction Employment .....................      .            7
(d) Social Characteristics Affecting
the Construction Industry                      . . .    10
Ce) Project Description and Objectives                    ...    12
Objectives                          ...   13
Project Components                       ...   14
Expected Benefits                        ...   14
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                             . . .    17
(a) Overview ...............................................   17
(b) Management ...................                        ...........................   17
*c) Inter-Ministerial Coordination                      .         .         19
(d) Physical Implementation                         ..                      20
Ce) Improvements to Existing Institutions ..................   28
(f) Building of New Facilities                       .          .           29
(g) Procurement of Equipment                         . . .   30
(h) Technical Assistance                       .....              .         31
(i) Fulfillment of Covenants                          . .                   32
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING                           . . .    36
(a) Appraisal Estimates.              ,          . . .   36
(b) Final Cost of the Project                       . . .    36
Cc) Expenditure by Category                        . . .    36
(d) Technical Assistance Costs                       . . .    37
(e) Financing and Disbursement                       . . .    37



Table of Contents (continued)
IV.  PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME .. .............................,. 39
(a) Overview Attainment of Project Objectives.                        39
(b) Trainee Enrollment and Output.                                    41
(c) Short-Term In-Service Training Courses.                           46
(d) Development of Curricula and Other Training Materials    49
(e) Special Studiest           u       d       i      es............. ....  50
Assessment of Training Needs            ..50
Impact Assessment Study .               .                      60
V. BANK GROUP PERPOR4ANCE...  66
VI.  LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS              . . . .67
(a) General                 ...67
(b) Physical          ..................... . .68
Project Formulation. .................        . . .68
Project Implementation   ...                                   69
Supervision ............. . ... . .70
Technical Assistance .                 .                       70
CHARTS ......... o ..               ..................    73
TABLES .......................... 79
ANNEXES
Annex 1  -   Government Departments and Boards Engaged in
Construction Work . ........                              .  103
Annex 2 - Composition of Project Cell                        ..                 104
Annex 3 -  List of Artisan Training Centres ....                                105
Annex 4  -   Map of Sri Lanka Showing Locatini of Training
Institutes . ............        ..107
Annex 5  -   List of Specifications Prepared by the CITP .                      108
Annex 6 - Bibliography   .                    ........                          109
Annex 7  -   Comments From the Borrower:
(a) Ministry of Labour .. 111
(b) Ministry of Local Government Housing and
Construction .                                           112
(c) Institute for Construction Training and
Development .. ...........114



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1130-CE)
PREFACE
1.       In Marrh 1981, the International Development Association approved
a credit for SLtR 10.9 million (US$13.5 million equivalent) to the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, for a project designed to
increase the supply of trained manpower to the local construction industry.
2.       The Project (US$25 million total project cost) was aimed at
providing training in the basic skills, which were in short supply, to
artisans in the country's construction trades; in addition, it sought to
improve the use and maintenance of plant and equipment training operators
and mechanics, increase the effectiveness of work planning and supervision
by training middle and upper management in contract procedures, site
management and quality control, strengthen the agencies and institutions
involved in training for the construction industry, and finally, improve
methods and procedures relating to the industry. To achieve these
objectives, the project established a unified modular training system
designed to give basic trade skills to about 45,000 unskilled workers and
upgrade the existing skills of some 9,600 experienced construction workers.
The program also included training of about 1,800 mechanical equipment
operators, some 900 work supervisors, and another 80 senior works managers.
By the end of the project period, more than SDR 10.1 million was disbursed
while SDR 0.78 was cancelled an of the last disbursement date of
July 21, 1987.
3.       The PCR was prepared by a local consulting firm on behalf of the
project authorities. In accordance with the revised performance reporting
procedures, this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
4.       The report was sent for comment to various potentially interested
Government Agencies. The three responses received from the Ministry of
Labor, Local Government.Housing and Construction (NLGHC) and from the
successor to the implementing agency ,the Institute for Construction and
Development (ICTAD), confirmed the general fairness and appropriateness of
the consultant's re ,jrt. Their principal comments clarify the reasons for
adjustments to training targets based on decisions taken during project
implementation to better reflect the significant changes in economic
conditions in Sri Lanka, and in the light of periodic updating of training
needs data. These adjustments at the same time emphasized qualitative
improvements to training programs overall and a shift in priority from
basic job entry skills training to in-service courses. The Borrower's
comments are reproduced in Annex 7.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1130-CE)
ASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
(amounts in US$ millions)
Appraisal                  Actual as Z of
Item                 Expectation   Actual      Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Cost          25.0        18.8        252 underrun
Amount of IDA Credit   SDR 10.90    SDR 10.11         72 underrun
Completion Date *           6184       12/86       30 months delay
Proportion completed 2    1002         100o
Operation Outcome                                    Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                            Satisfactory
Note:  * " Procurement of equipment and furniture only.
Project had no civil works.
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Appraisal Estimate              2.44  6.09  7.48  10.9    -      -
Actual                          2.11  3.29  5.44   7.2  8.16  10.1
Actual as 2 of Appraisal          85    54    73    66    75    93
Date of Final Disbursement (07121187)
Total Disbursed in SDR      10.113 million  -  cancelled: 786,000
PROJECT DATES
Original                     Delays from
Plan    Revisions  Actual  Original Plan
First Mention in Files    -           -    03/21/79      -
Negotiations               -          -    02/23/81      -
Board Approval             -          -    04/07/81     -
Signing of Credit         -           -    06/01181     -
Effectiveness         06130/81        -    08/19/81    50 days
Closing Date          12131/84  12/31/86  12/31/86    24 months



- iii -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Identification
/Preparation       8 *
Appraisal                   60 *
Negotiations                 2
Supervision                       9.1  10.6  10.4   1.7   3.2  10.1
PCR                                                                      2
Subtotal          8      62    9.1  10.6  10.4   1.7   3.2  10.1    2
note:   data with an asterisk is estimated
MISSION DATA
Special-    Perform-          Types
No.of   izations      ance             of
Date Persons Represented Rating   Trend  Problems
Identification
/Preparation    06/80   2         2         na       na       na
Appraisal          07/80   6        4          na      na       na
Post-Appraisal    04/81   1         1         na       na       na
Supervision    I  06/81   1         1           1       1
Supervision   II  10/81   2         2           1       1
Supervision  III  07/82   3         3           2       1       TM
Supervision   IV  04/83   3         3           2       1       T
Supervision    V  07/83   2         2           2       1       P
Supervision   VI  09/83   2         2           2       1       P
Supervision  VII  09/84   1         1           2       1       FT
Supervision VIII  12/85   1         1           2       1       M
Supervision   IX  08/86   3         3           1       1       M
Supervision    X  03/87   1         1           1       1       TM
Completion        01/88   2         2



- ivr -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Democratic Soicialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Executing Agency: Ministry of Local Government Housing
and Construction
Follow-on Projects Second Vocational Training Project
Credit No. 1698-CE
Amount: SDR 13.0 million (US$15 m. equival.)
Approval Dates July 11, 1986



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1130-CE)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        Sri Lanka has experienced wide swings in economic policies
during the past 20 years, which have affected the growth and development of
the construction industry. The change in Government in 1977 led to a
substantial revision of economic policies: trade restrictions were removed
and price controls relaxed.  The construction industry was accorded the
status of a lead sector in development, with projects in irrigation, power,
housing and highways playing a key role in a bid towards an economic "take-
off". However, due to previous periods of stagnation, the construction
industry was poorly equipped in terms of skilled manpower and technology to
handle the surge in construction activity following the revitalization of
the economy (para 1.03).
2.        The IDA-funded Construction Industry Training Project was
appraised in June/July 1980, and became effective in August 1981. It had
several objectives, including: to increase the number of trained craftsmen
in the building industry and thereby expand the capacity of the
construction industry to cope with the expected workload, to upgrade
the skills of experienced workers, to train mechanical equipment operators,
works managers and supervisors, to develop on-site training centers in
many of the existi-ig construction work sites, to develop and institute
trade testing mec:,anisms, and to improve methods and procedures related to
the construction industry (para. 1.25).
3.        The Credit became effective promptly after it was signed.
Because of the country's conditions and fewer prospective trainees, the
Government requested the closing date to be extended twice. Thus, the
overall project completion was delayed by two years, and several
adjustments in the targets were made during project execution. The closing
date was December 31, 1987.
4.        From the outset of the project there were doubts about the
training targets for artisans. The reasons for the lower expectations for
additional labor demand were: larger-than-expected numbers of Sri Lankans
returning from the Middle East, a gearing down of the Mahaweli Program
construction activities and the general slowing of the national economic
growth. This led to a downward revision of initial targets. In January
1982, the National Training Committee for the Construction Industry decided
to cut back training targets for artisans by about 40%. On the other hand,
it increased the numbers for mechanical equipment operators, supervisors
and works managers following increased demand for these categories.
Compared to the original target of 54,600, some 32,800 artisans were
trained under the project. In addition, 2,331 men took the mechanical
equipment operators and mechanics course vs a target of 1,800; 1,500
graduated from the work supervisors course vs a target of 900, and there
were 1,100 graduates for the works managers program vs an expected target
of 80 (para. 4.01-03).



- vi -
5.        The other objectives originally envisaged, i.e., strengthening
the agencies and the institutions involved in on-site training and trade
testing and improving the testing methods and procedures related to the
construction industry, were met to varying degrees. As revealed by Tracer
Studies, inspections carried-out at over 500 work sites found on-site
training programs to be operating successfully; mechanisms for trade-
testing were put in place but only a small number of artisans have so far
been tested. The trade-testing has to be improved and expanded in order to
have any impact in the quality control of the graduating tradesmen.
Moreover, manuals on methods and procedures were produced, although it is
difficult to ascertain how many are used regularly by the respective
workers (paras. 4.04-05, 4.36).
6.       According to Impact Assessment Studies carried out in 1987, the
quality of the trained workers, in general, has been found to be as good as
or better than those trained by other agencies. The training thus, has
shown to be an important factor on the employability of graduates; however,
employment is mainly part-time due to the nature of the industry. In
addition, the introduction of the ICTAD(CITP) placement assistance office
was very productive (para 6.04).
7.       The overall technical assistance provided was satisfactory but it
took 9 more staff-years than the originally planned 36 sly, and cost 54%
more than appraisal estimates. The reasons for that could be attributed to
some degree to additional training programs, the considerable fall in the
rupee exchange rate against the US dollar, and the extension of the
duration of the project by two years. In total, 31 expatriate consultants
were utilized at various lengths of time amounting to 45 s/y (para. 6.08).
8.       A follow-up project was prepared by the Ministry of Local
Government in 1985 with the following objectives: to create an institutional
framework to sustain training and industry development started under the
first project, to increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled, and
managerial personnel to the industry, to improve the quality of manpower
supplied to the sector, and to institute a system of cost recovery in
vocational training for the construction sector. The Second Vocational
Training Project was for SDR13.0 million and the Credit was approved in
July 1986.



CHAPTER 1
PROJECT BACKGROUND
a)       SOCI0-ECONOMXC SEfl:NG
1.01  Introduction
Sri Lanka has experienced wide swings in economic policies during
the past 20 years, which have affected the growth ard development
of the construction industry. In general, economic upswings and
downturns have a magnified impact on the construction industry and
this tendency has been clearly evident in Sri Lanka (see chart 1
and Table 1).
1.02 Early Seveaties
During the early part of the seventies (1970-1977) the construction
industry was sluggish and recorded growth rates that varied from
7% in 1974 to -9.6% in 1977. The average rate of growth in the
Construction Sector during the period 1974 to 1977 was -1.46%*.
During this period there was also a shift towards the Public Sector.
Furthermore, the construction industry (particularly the Housing
Sector) tended to be regarded as a resource absorbing rather than
a resource producing sector and therefore less emphasis was placed
on infrastructure improvement. Insufficient resources for invest-
ment added to this situation although consumption expenditure was
maintained at high levels (average of 86% between 1970-1975).4
Consequently, Gross Domestic Capital formation declined to an
average rate of 15.5% during the same period . The overall devel-
opment strategy was based on import substitution which necessarily
entailed severe restrictions on international trade.
1 .3 Construction Boom
The change of government in 1977 led to a complete revision of economic
policiest trade restrictions were removed and price controls relaxed.
*  Source:    Central Bank Reports (1978 to 1986)
+ Source:    Central Bank - Review of the'Economy 1978.



2
The construction industry was accorded the status of a lead sector
in development with infrastructure projects in irrigation, power,
housing and highways playing a key role in a bid towards an economic
"take-off".. The lead sector role assigned to the construction
industry, in the Medium Term Economic Plan (1979-1983), centered
round the following Programmes:-
i)   The Accelerated Mahaweli Programme
ii)   The Urban Development & Housing Programme
A major component of these Programmes was given to foreign contrac-
tors, which eased the pressure on domestic construction resources
to an extent. The relaxation of controls also stimulated Private
Sector investment in buildings, and construction activity in the
tourist industry. As a result, the Construction Sector reported
real growth rates of 28.2% (1978), 20.9% (1979) and 11% (1980)
(see Table 1).
1.04  Resource Constraints
However, the previous periods of stagnation had meant that the
construction industry was poorly equipped to handle this sudden
upsurge in demand. In general, the level of technology and capital-
ization was low and only a few construction firms had the capacity
to handle large projects. The surge in construction activity,
followino the revitalisation of the economy, was immediately
reflected in construction costs which increased by 50% to 100%
between 1977 and 1979.. Resource shortages were met with imports,
but the shortage of skilled workers was reflected in their wages
which escalated sharply during this time. e.g. In the period 1979-
1980, the wages of a Master Carpenter increased by 34.3%, Master
Mason by 32.3% and an unskilled helper (Masonry) by 32.3% (see
Chart 2 and Table 2). The migration of construction workers to
the Middle East also added to the problem.
The IDA-funded Construction Industry Training Programme was launched
in order to increase the number of trained craftsmen in the building
industry and thereby expand the capacity of the construction industry
+ Dr. S. Ganesan   "Management of Small CozstructLon Fir s -
Asian Productivity Organization - 1982



3
to cope with the increase in the expected work load. The original
objectives (as given in the Appraisal) were to train 45,000 new
recruits, upgrade the skills of 9,600 experienced workers, train
1,800 Mechanical Equipment Operators, 900 Supervisors and 80
Senior Works Managers.
However, the changes in the economic environment led to a downward
revision of these estimates.
The sudden increase in demand and the upsurge in economic activity
created problems of resource constraints and overstraining, which
were reflected in an escalation of inflation. Although inflation
was contained at moderate levels in 1978 and the first half of
1979, it began to escalate sharply since then, over and above
"corrective inflation" that occured as a result of liberalization
(see Chart 3).
1.05  Investment Revisions
The escalation of prices affected the cost estimates of the Lead
Sector Programmes which had to be revised upwards. The Lead Sector
Projects, estimated to comprise 31% of Public Investment (1979-
1983), had to be revised to 42% mainly on account of inflation.
Although the Wholesale Price Index* showed inflation rates of 16%
(1978), increasing to 34% (1980), other unpublished data indicated
much higher rates of inflation of 44% in the same period. It was
feared that escalating inflation would affect Sri Lanka's competitive
performance and lead to a balance of payments problem and the result-
ing budget deficits would also further aggravate the situation.
In 1980 it became evident that short term real interest rates were
negative, thereby jeopardising the level of domestic savings which
were necessary to finance capital projects in the Private Sector.
1.06  Down-turn
Early in 1980, the Government responded to these danger signals and
re-affirmed its committment to macro economic stability and fiscal
discipline. The GOSL took a series of measures, including the
imposition of fresh financial ceilings and the re-phasing of the
* Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka - Annual Report 1982



4
Government's high priority programmes such as the Accelerated
Mahaweli Programme. The Government also raised lending and deposit
rates in an attempt to restore positive real interest rates. In
April 1980, the Central Bank minimum lending rate was raised from
10% to 12% and the National Savings Bank raised its interest rate
for one year deposits from 15 to 20%. Commercial banks followed by
raising their lending rates. Furthermore, GOSL also enforced a
limit on the construction of new public buildings.
These cut backs in construction activity resulted in a sharp down-
turn in construction activity and the growth rate in the Sector
plummeted to -3.0% (1982) (see Chart 1). The CITP made a downward
revision of their training targets, based on the 'Assessment of
Training Needs' conducted by the NIBM (1983). The revised figures
envisaged the demand for construction workers to be in the order
of 6,000 per annum.
The ethnic disturbances of July 1983 had an adverse impact on econ-
omil acttvity and this further reduced the demand for construction
in the Private Sector.
However, widespread unemployment in the Construction Sector was
averted by
i) increased migration to the Middle East
ii) continuation of Public Sector Investment Programmes
(though at a reduced pace) including the Million Houses
Programme,which had a beneficial effect in rural areas
iii) self-employment which enabled workers to tide over
difficult times
t.07 Conclusions
In general, cyclicality and uncertainty have had a negative effect
on the growth and development of the domestic construction industry
which (apart from a handful of large firms) is still characterised
by non-professionalism, under-capitalization, a low level of techno-
logy and a short-term view of profit maximisation*. As demonstrated
* Dr S. Ganesan - "The Development of National Contractors" -
Part I - MLGHC , ICTAD - Aug. 1986



5
in the above analysis and Chart I, cyclicality is an inherent
feature of the construction industry and any attempt to improve
the status of the industry should provide for this phenomenon.
This would involve the development of systems to cope with cycli-
cality and/or the provision of cushioning measures to protect the
industry against the debilitating effects of short term variations
in demand.
Since the Government is the largest client of the construction
industry, stabilisation measures introduced in the Government
Sector will have a significant influence in promoting the devel-
opment of long term strategies for planning and improvement in
the construction industry as a whole.
b)          SECTOR SETTING
1.08   Composition
The sectoral composition and the importance of the construction
industry in the economy have reflected the policy objectives of
successive governments. The shift in economic policies that
took place with the liberalisation of trade and controls in 1V77
led to a revitalisation of the economy in general, and the con-
struction industry in particular (see Chart 1, Table 1 and para
No.1.03 ). While construction activity remained at approximately
3% of GNP during the early 70s, the boom in construction and the
lead sector role assigned to it led to its contribution to GNP
being increased to 8.9% in 1977*. With the slowing down of the
construction boom, and the cut backs in Government-Programmes
(see para 1.06), the sectoral position declined to 7.9% (1984)
and 7.5% (1985)*
1.09   Demand
On the demand side, there are three main determinants of construc-
tion demand. They are:
1) Public Sector demand
2) Private Sector housing 4emand
3) Private Sector non-housing demand
* source: Central Bank Reports - 1978 to 1986.



6
1.10   Public Sector Demand
A consistent feature in Sri Lanka has been that the Public Sector
is the single most important determinant of construction demand.
The bulk of construction related activity today is generated
through the Public Sector which accounts for over 50% of total
construction activity. The lead sector projects, namely, the
Accelerated Mahaweli Programme (AMP), the Urban & Housing Develop-
ment Programme, and construction in the Investment Promotion
Zone alone accounted for 42% of Public Sector investment in 1983*.
1.11   Private Sector Housing Demand
Private Sector housing demand, which reached a peak in the period
1978-1980, declined thereafter due to the escalation in building
costs (in 1978-1979 alone this increased by 50 - 100% 1, the increas-
ing price of land and the high interest rates.
1.12   Private Sector Non-Housing Demand
Private Sector non-housing demand, which increased with the tourist
boom in the period 1978-1980, also declined. The ethnic disturbances
of 1983, which affected the Private Sector in general and the tourist
Industry in particular, resulted in a virtual standstill in cons-
truction activities, in the latter.
1.13   Supply
With regard to Supply, the importance of the Private Sector has shown
a significant increase in the last decade. Prior to 1977, a number
of Government departments and boards were created (or existed) to
undertake Public Sector Construction Programmes (as listed in
Annex 1).
In 1978, these Public Sector Construction Agencies accounted for
approximately 1/3rd of the total construction expenditure
* Source: Central Bank Reports - 1978 to 1986.
+ Ganesan - "Management of Small Construction Firms" -
Asian Productivity OrganizatLon - 1982
* Review of Construction industry - March 1979 World Bank Report.



7
The current policies being pursued towards these agencies have
resulted in a move away from actual construction work to a
designing, consultancy and supervisory role with Private Sector
construction firms being employed for actual construction work.,
The overall Government strategy has been to shift construction
work towards the Private Sector.
1.14   Foreign Contractors
There has also been a significant shift towards the employment of
foreign contractors for certain projects, where local firms have
not had the technology and the capacity to handle such large con-
tracts, e.g. A significar.t segment of construction activity pertain-
ing to the AMP has been assigned to fereign contractors. This has
helped to relieve the domestic resource constraints pertaining to
manpower and other construction resources. The work sharing prog-
rammes (though to a limited scale) have enabled the -local construc-
tion industry to work side by side with foreign firms and gain
experience in handling projects of this nature'and the use of modern
technology.
The infrastructure development programmes and construction activity
in general have spanned across most sectors of the economy, both
rural and urban, agricultural and manufacturing. In particular,
the AMP and the Million Houses Programme have brought direct benefits
to the Rural Sector and helped to reduce the sectoral imbalances
that have plagued many other developing countries.
c)         TRENDS IN CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYMENT
1.15   Employment Levels
Employment in the construction industry accounts for approximately
7% of total employment in Sri Lanka, while employment in agricul-
ture and manufacturing account for 68% and 17.8% respectively*.
However, the actual numbers employed have fluctuated with changes
in demand in the Construction Sector which have followed cyclical
variations in the 1970s and 80s (see Chart 1). The period 1978
to 1980 saw an unprecedented increase in construction activity with
* Source: Central Bank - Socio-Economic Survey 1981



8
the growth rates in construction going upto 28% (1978) and 21%
(1979)*. During this period the level of employment expanded
from 100,000 (1977) to 116,000 (1978) showing growth rates in
employment of 16% (1978)* and 20% (1979). This period of full
employment in the industry and the continuing demand resulted
in a sudden escalation of construction sector wages (see Chart
2). The period 1978 to 1983 saw average wages in construction
for both skilled and unskilled workers increase to 289% of its
-1978 value#.
1.16   Migration
The domestic boom in construction coincided with the massive
oil financed demand for expatriate labour for development activity
in the Gulf States of the Middle East. This resulted in a large
exodus of skilled workers from Sri Lanka to the Middle East,
approximately 60% of whom were construction workers (see Table
3). In 1981, an estimated total of approximately 50,000 workers
migrated overseas - a flow large enough to make a significant
impact on the local labour market". During this period, there
was serious concern that labour shortages in the Construction
Sector would jeopardise the successful implementation of develop-
ment programmes of the Government (Medium Term DevelopmEnt Plan
1979-83). The CITP was a response to this situation which
demanded an effective and speedy prograkme of skill development
and training in the Construction Sector.
On the domestic front, the boom period-ended in 1982 as a result
of cut backs andre^phasing of Public Sector Investment Programmes
(see para 1.06). The effect of this was compounded by the down-
turn in Private Sector investment and construction in the tourist
industry which followed the ethnic disturbances of 1983.
with regard to employment levels, however, Middle East migration
which continued unabated acted as a relief valve to alleviate
* Source: Central Bank Reports 1978 to 1986.
+   Appraisal Report
# Source: Central Bank - Economic & Social Statistics of
Sri Lanka - Price & Wage Statistics -
1983.
I Smpact of Out & Return Migration on Domestic Employment in
Sri Lanka: A Preliminary Analysis". The Asian Employment
Programme (ILO/ARETP) 1985



9
domestic unemployment. Estimates made in 1981 placed the absorp-
tion co-efficient at approximately 1/3rd the annual increment in
the labour force.
1.17   Migrant Returnees
In recent times, with the fall in oil prices, there has been a
levelling off and a deceleration of construction activity in the
Middle East and a reduction in demand for construction workers.
On account of investment lags and the 2nd Phase involving the
operation and maintenance component of projects, the demand for
expatriate labour will continue although of a different mix.
The impact of fiigrant returnees on local employment has not been
assessed as no comprehensive studies have yet been undertaken.
Two case studies conducted in Ja-Ela and Minuwangoda in 1984*
found that of the migrant returnees in these two areas, only
8-to 9% had been absorbed into paid employment whlXe 25% t%ad
gone into self-employment. A substantial number was reported to
be living on savings while the bulk of migrants, upon returning
to Sri Lanka, had not gone back to their pre-migration labour
market pursuits, and a high percentage did not engage in direct
economic activity upon return. However, it is not possible to
draw general macro conclusions from these two micru studies.
The continuation of Public Sector Investment Programmes in Sri
Lanka has helped to sustain the level of employment in coistruc-
tion activity. In the period 1979 to 1983, employment increased
by a further 89,000 from 140,000 (1979)+ to 229,100 (1983)#,
thereby showing an average annual increase in employment of 12.7%.
1.18   New Entrants
With regard to new entrants to the construction industry, the
Tracer Surveys pertaining to CITP Trainees give an insight into
+  Source:  Atukorale & Balasuriya (1984) from "Impact of Out 8
Return Migration on Domestic Employment in Sri Lanka:
A Preliminary Analysis"  (ILO/ARTEP) 1985.
* Appraisal Report - Sri Lanka Construction Industry Training
Project - 1981
# 1983 figure as reported in Basic Data - Preparation Report for
2nd CITP
° Based on Census Data.



10
the absorption patterns. In the three surveys 1983, 1984 and
1985, of the number actually interviewed, those employed in the
construction industry were75%, 73s and 85% respectively. However
a sicnificant percentage of the sample, 27%, 22% and 22% respect-
ively,cwere not available for interview.. The Tracer Studies also
indicated that the highest level of unemployment was among Electri-
cal Wiremen (30%) and the lowest among Masons (7%). Hence, the
determination of the skill categories in assessing training needs
will have to be carefully worked out in the future in order to
maintain a balance in employment opportunities for those completing
the CITP Course.
1.19   Female Employment
Female participation rates in the Construction Sector have always
been low and this phenomenon has not shown any significant change
in recent times, apart from supervisory grades where female parti-
cipation in training program'mes has been somewhat hetter.
(also see para 1.22).
d)         SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS AFFECTING THE CONSTRUCTION INfUSTRY
1.20   Stratification
Sri Lankan society is stratified along traditional lines of family
connections, inherited wealth, political influence, and occupation,
with a higher status being accorded to doctors, engineers, accounte
ants, government officials and those with academic and professional
qualifications. Construction workers and those labouring in the hot
sun are assigned a lower status despite the fact that, in recent
years, many construction workers have amassed "small fortunes" as
a result of migratory employment in the Middle East. A skilled
construction worker, however affluent, is called a "baasunnehe"
(a term of address for a skilled craftsman), while an office
worker or professional is called a "mahatmaya" (or gentleman).
Previously a "baasunnehe" was attired in a sarong while a "mahat-
maya" wore trousers. In recent times, the trouset has become a
common form of attire, cutting across all social barriers, and
though this has helped to reduce the external manifestations of



11
class, the lower status accorded to manual workers continues.
1.21   Effect on the Construction Industry
These attitudes have adversely influenced entry into the const--
ruction industry and have stunted the development of progressive
career patterns. Small construction firms in particular have
suffered as a result, out there are examples of large construction
firms too which have been characterised by poor professional
standards*.
Dr Ganesan *cites the case study of poor progress on site, which
he attributed to inefficient organisation, low productivity, poor
site-management and supervision, and the desire for short term
Profit maximization by the Contractor (despite favourable terms
being given). Thus, the lack of progressive career prospects and
the low social status accorded to construction work, plus the vola-
tile nature of work caused by fluctuations in demand, have all con-
tributed to prevent the ablest young men from seeking a career in
the construction industry.
The CITP, during the project period, incorporated certain elements
into their Programme to improve the traditional image of the cons-
truction worker,by providing their trainees with a hard hat, gum
boots, gloves and apron. The National Skill Certificate which has
been introduced as a result of CITP will also help to enhance their
status. These measures, however small, plus the higher earning
capacity of construction workers in recent times e6ay help in improv-
ing their social status (at least gradually) in the future.
1.22   Female Participation
With regard to female participation in the construction industry,
this has been largely confined to the casual, unskilled grades.
In 1971 there were 1.2% females in the industry, which rose to 5.60%
in 1983#, but this increase too has been mainly in the unskilled
categories.  For example, on small construction sites, it is quite
common to see a line of women passing mortar pans of loose aggre-
gate, concrete,or carrying bricks on their heads.
* Dr S. Ganesan, ICTAD, in association with the Worl4 Bank -
"The Development of National Contractorp" Part I - August 1986.
;  Source:  "Preparation Report - Second Construction In4ustry
Training Project"



12
'thic alac reflects the low capitalt labour ratio found in the
Local construction industry. The number of females trained under
the CITP Programme during the period June 1981 to December 1986 was
tcnly 326 out ot a total of 37,742, or 0.9% of the total, confirming
the? view that construction work is a "man's job' and not one off..
lng career prospects to ambitious females. In the Supervisory Grades,
however, the enrolment rate has been higher, viz. 189 of the total
1478 Supervisors were females.
1.23   Traditional Training
The traditional approach to training in the Construction Industry in
Sri Lanka has been one of Master Craftsman and Apprentlce, where the
apprentice learns the skill by helping the Master Craftsman over a
period of years. Skills have also been passed down from father to
son. These arrangements have been casual and not subject to any
'institutional monitoring' or certification of standards.
The formalisation of training instructions may take more time to
make a significant impact on these age-old practices which still
continue in the rural areas where the level of technology is low.
Judging by the increase in construction employment (both Skilled
and Unskilled), which rose from 100,000 in 1977 to 229,100 in
1983* and the numbers fully trained in both CITP and non-CITP
institutions, it is likely that traditional methods of training
still continue.
e)         PROJECT DESCRIPTION & OBJECTIVES
1.24   The Governuent of Sri Lanka (COSL), when formulating the 1979-1983
Medium Term Development PlAn, realised that the capacity of the
domestic construction industry required expansion in order to
accommodate the work envisaged in the Plan. In response to this
situation, an IDA Mission (December 1978) discussed a Prograsme
* Source: "Preparation Report - Second ConstructIon Industry
Training Project"



13
of Technical Assistance with the GOSL, leading to a Project
designed to increase the output and capacity of the construc-
tion industry. During the subsequent Identification and Prep-
aration Missions, GOSL and IDA agreed that this Project should
concentrate on specific areas where significant improvements
would be possible. It was then decided that this Project would
concentrate on increasing the supply of skilled manpower and
management expertise in the industry. In 3une 1980, GOSL
retained the British Council as Lead Consultants to provide
Technical Assistance for the Project Preparation, and the Project
was appraised by IDA in June 1980. Implementation started in
June 1981. The original Credit Agreement between GOSL and the
IDA was signed for a period of 3 years from June 1981 to June
1984. Subsequently, the project period was extended to December
1986.
1.25  Objectives
The Project Objectives were to increase the supply of trained
manpower and to improve the level of technical management
expertise so that the construction industry could better meet
the demands of Sri Lanka's Investment Programme. The Project
was designed to:
E Establish an unified modular training system for
construction related trades which would supply the
industry with a significant number of workers
trained to limited but recognised skilled levels
in the least possible time. This process would
both improve the productivity and earning capacity
of existing construction workers, and provide job
opportunities for new entrants from both rural and
urban backgrounds 
-   Improve the use and maintenance of equipment by
training Operators and Mechanics;
-   Increase the effectiveness of work,planning and
supervision by training middle aneC upper manage-
ment staff in Contract Procedures, Site Management



14
and Quality Controls
- Strengthen the Agencies and Institutions involved
in training for the construction industry, and
Improve the methods and procedures relating to the
industry.
1.26   Project Components
The Project consisted of:
- Training for about 45,000 new entrants in basic
construction skills to a standard where they would
be able to carry out simple building-craft tasks
under supervision;
- Training for about 9,600 experienced construction
workers to upgrade their existing skills;
-   Training for about 1,800 Mechanical Equipment
Operators and Mechanics in correct operation and
maintenance. procedures;
- Training for about 900 Work Supervisors, who have
little or no site experience, in simple procedures
of supervision and quality control;.
- Training for about 80 experienced Senior Works
Managers in improved Work Planning and Management;
- Technical. assistance to establish and run the Train-
ing Programmes and to advise GOSL on technical and
policy issues concerning the construction industry;
- Supply of equipment and materials necessary for
training.
1.27   Expected Benefits
The benefits from the Project may be divided into short term and
long term benefits.



15
1.28    Short Term Benefits
In the short term, the training of skilled craftsmen in the
categories mentioned would have the following beneficial
effects. It would
* Relieve the immediate resource constraints pertain-
ing to the supply of skilled workers in the construc-
tion industry and enable the realisation of the
Government's medium term economic objectives which
had a heavy bias towards the Construction Sector;
*   Ease the pressure on construction costs in general
and the escalation of labour costs in particular.
(in 'the period 1979 to 1980 labour costs increased
by approximately 35% among all categories of construc-
tion labour - see Table 2);
* Reduce youth unemployment and under-employment by
providing avenues for further training and skill
acquisition, and better prospects of gainful employ-
ment thereafter;
* Result in an immediate enhancement of work opportu-
nities in the Middle East, for those who were freshly
trained and those re-trained. This benefits the
individual in terms of his much improved earning cap-
acity,and the country, as a whole, in terms of increased
invisible exports. A Sri Lankan working in the Middle
East sends approximately 80 to 9Q% of his earnirgs back
home. The foreign exchange remittances of Middle
East workers constitute the second largest source of
foreign exchange earnings next to tea exports. In
1983 alone, private transfers amounted to Rs.6.8
billion, next to Rs.8.3 billion earned from tea exports*.
These remittances have alLs helped to boost the level
of domestic savings.
* Source: Central Bank Reports, 1984 to 1986.



16
1.29    Long Term Benefits
* The strengthening of the infrastructure and institutional
base pertaining to construction training will result in
a long term improvement in the effectiveness and
productivity of Training Institutions. This would
lead to a permanent enhancement of the national con-
struction training capability;
* The improvement of the level of skills and technical
know-how that would result from the Project would
have beneficial effects on Infrastructure Development
Programmes in particular, and economic growth in
general;
* The upgrading of skills will result in an enhancement of
living standardz of those construction workers and
would contribute to an increase in the National OAt-
put and Income;
* Institutional Training, the upgrading of supervisory
skills and the improvement of technology would prom-
ote career development in the construction industry.
In the future, this could enable local firms to
undertake larger projects which are now being handled
by foreign firms.



17
CHAPTER-I1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
a)        OVERVIEW
2.01  Agreement was reached between the GOSL and the Bank, even
before the Credit Agreement became effective, to retain the
British Council (BC) as a co-ordinating agency to provide
technical assistance for the preparation of the Project.
The BC, in turn, made use of the services of a Specialist
from the Construction Industry Training Board (CITM) of the
United Kingdom (UK). The Project was approved by an IDA
Mission in June 1980. The Credit Agreement was signed in
June £981 and became effective on 19th August 1981.
The effective date for completion of the Project was expected
to be December 31, 1984, (Development Credit Agreement 1130-CE.
signed between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and the International Development Association), though the
actual date of completion has been as late as December 1986.
b)        MANAGEMENT
2.02   Secretaries' Committee
The responsibility for implementation of the Project was borne
by the Ministry of Local Government, Housing & Construction
(MLGHC) through the Secretaries' Committee for the Construction
Industry (SCCI) which was established as a Co-ordinating and
Steering Committee, assisted by the Construction Industry Special-
ist of the Technical Assistance Team. This SCCI, under the
chairmanship of the Secretary, MLGHC, was responsible for the
overall operations of the industry in not only the Public
Sector, but also in the Private Sector so far as Government work
was concerned.



18
2.03   Project Call
The day-to-day administration and control of the Project was
in the hands of a Project Cell set up by the MLGHC under a
full-time Project Director (vide Annex 2). It received specific
guidance from the SCCI on Policy and Planning, and from the
National Training Committee for the Construction Industry
(NTCCI) - a Sub-Committee of the SCCI - on training matters.
2.04   National Steering Committee
A National Steering Committee for the Construction Industry
(NSCCI), with representatives from all spheres of activity in
the Construction Industry, looked into methods and procedures
for improving the output and efficiency of the industry, includ-
ing Construction Contract Procedures and Management. This
Committee had five (5) Specialist Sub-Committees to study the
Construction Industry in detail and suggest ways and means of
improving the efficiency and produictivity of the Industry.
Following were the five Sub-Committees:-
i) Sub-Committee on Re-establishing Tender Procedure,
Grading Systems for Contractors, Conditions of
Contract and Specifications;
ii) Sub-Committee on Training for Middle and Upper Manage-
ment, Quantity Surveying and Quality Control;
iii)  Sub-Committee to deal with the subject-area of-
Contractors' Associations;
iv) Sub-Committee on the relationship between Design-
Economics and the Construction Industry;
v) Sub-Committee on Strategic Planning for the Cons-
truction Industry



19
c)         INTER-MINISTERIAL CO-ORDINATION
2.05  The implementation of the CITP Programme involved several
Ministries and different Sectors as the Construction Industry
spans across almost the entire spectrum of-"governmental
activity. Effective and speedy implementation therefore nec-
essitated close co-ordination between these different Minis-
tries. This co-ordination was achieved through the appointment
of a Committee consisting of the Secretaries of several Minis-
tries, which was vested with the responsibility of formulating
policy for the implementation of the Project (see Chart 4).
The Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Housing & Construc-
tion, (MLGHC), acted as Chairman, and the Ministries involved
were the
-   Ministry of Youth Affairs & Employment
-  Ministry of Plan Implementation
-  Ministry of Higher Education
-   Ministry of Lands & Land Development
-   Ministry of Mahaweli Development
-   Ministry of Labour
these Ministries fall into two groups:
a)  those directly involved in Training Programmes and
b)   those having a large construction component in
their Investment Programmes
The Ministry of Youth Affairs & Employment falls into the first
category. The National Apprenticeship Board, which was established
in 1973, came under this Ministry and was charged with the respon-
sibility of standardization, selection of trainees, testing, certi-
fication and registration of workers, Supervisors and Specialists.
The Department of Labour, under the Ministry of Labour, operates
two permanent and 130 mobile centres offering course in Masonry
and Carpentry.
The Department of Rural Industries, under .the Ministry of Rural
Development, operates 75 centres to train carpenters.



20
The Department of Higher Education has 25 technical institutes
offering a variety of courses related to Construction.
The MLGHC established the Centre for Bousing Planning & Build-
ing as a Training Centre for Construction Management.
The activities of these Ministries which were directly Involved
in the implementation of the CITP Programme were co-ordinated
and monitoredthrough the Secretaries Committee,  Since the  .mp-
lementation of the Project was to be achieved through existing
institut.ions,these Ministries played a key,role.
The Ministries which did not have existing institutional arrange-
ments for training, but which nevertheless had large construction
components in their Work Programmes, offered on-site training
facilities for CITP trainees. In particular, the Million
Houses Programme under the MLGHC' provided training for approxi-
mately 12,000 trainees during the project period.
Throughi effective inter-ministerial co-ordination executed through
the Secketaries Committee, efficient and speedy implementation of
policies was made possible. In particular, the Secretaries Comm-
ittee provided an useful forum for the formulation of policies
and was an avenue through which new ideasicould reach thq highest
policy making body - the Cabinet - and bet.ratified as Official*
Government Policy.
d)        PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
2.06   Training Divisions
The Physical Implementation of' the Project was effected through
the medium of the following'four TrainihebIuirisions:-
i)  Artisan Training Division
ii)   Construction Supervisory & Management-;TraLizng Division
iii)   Construction Equipment Operators atkebhanicis Training
Division
iv)   On-Site Training Division



2.07   Artisan Training
Artisan Training was provided according to a modular system,
whereby trainees could progress from a lower level to a
higher level in a series of short courses sandwiched with
periods of job experience. All craft trades had two modules -
a Basic Skills Module (BSM) and an Advanced Skills mule
(ASH). The BSM consisted of two parts, viz. 10 weeks of
institutional training and 10 weeks of controlled on-the-job
training, whilst the duration of the ASH varied from 6 to 8
weeks, depending on the areas of skill.  The ASM did not have
on-the-job training as the trainees were recruited from the
industry.
The Aftisan Trades covered were:-
a)   Masonry
b)   Carpentry
c)   Electrical Wiring
d)   Plumbing
e)   Steel Fixing and Barbending
The Institutional Training Courses for Artisans were conducted
at the Sri Lanka Technical College and the Polytechnical, Junior
_ * n t M * i. :1 '
Technical and Affiliate Technical Institutes of the Ministry of
Higher Education, and at the Pre-Cast Yard of the State Engineer-
ing Corporation at Ekala. A list of the Training Centres, together
with the Courses conducted at each place, As.t.ahown-in Annex 3,
whilst Annex 4 shows the location of the Training-Institutes on
a map of Sri Lanka.
During the course of the Institutional Training, the Artisan
Trainees were given the opportunity to practise their skills under
simulated site-conditions, including working at heights.
Each Artisan Trainee was given a Hand Book containing information
to reinforce instructions in practical activities and for use as
a Reference Book both during and after training.
The Training Allowance paid to Artisans during their Institutional
Training was as follows:-



Basic Skills Course      ..  Rs.12/- per day
Advanced Skills Course   ..  Rs.30/- per day
On completion of the Basic Skills Training Course, each successful
trainee was given a tool-kit free of charge for use in tne craft
in which he was trained.
The training was continuously assessed during the entire institu-
tional period, and those who successfully completed the training
were issued a Certificate of Attendance. Thereafter, the trainees
were placed in industry for on-site training.
2.08   Training for the Million Houses Programme
The CITP developed a Training Programme to provide basic skills
to members of the community who were selected for the proposed
one Million Houses Programme of the Government, to build their
own houses on a self-help basis. This Programme was carried out
for the masonry and carpentry trades, in addition to the programmes
implemented at the Technical Institutes referred to above.
The training under this Programme was established at "Gramodaya
Mandalaya" (smallest administrative unit of local government)
level. Trainee masons and carpenters were selected from among
employable persons in the relevant "Gramodaya Mandalaya" Divisions
and given on-the-job training at housing work-sites in that Division.
An experienced mason and an experienced carpenter were selected
from the locality to be employed as trainers, in consultation
with the "Gramodaya Mandalaya" of the area. A modular training
pattern was adopted whereby the trainees could proceed from one
module of training skills to another, following the sequence of
activities in the Construction Schedule.
The trainees who completed the Million Houses Programme were given
the opportunity of following a more advanced course in the respec-
tive trade at a Technical College.
2.09   Supervisory & Management Training
Supervisor and Management Training was imparted in two parts -
institutional and on-site. The Supervisory and Management Train-
ing Division was responsible for this training which covered the
following fields:-



a)   Training of Construction Supervisors
b)   Training of Upper Managers
C)   Training of Middle Managers
d)   In-Service Training for Quantity Surveyors
2.10  Construction Supervisors' Training
The institutional training for Supervisors was spread over a
period of 8 weeks initially. The First Phase of 8 weeks initial
institutional training was followed by 48 weeks on-site work
experience. Thereafter the trainees were brought back to an Ins-
titute for their Second Phase of institutional training of 4 weeks.
These institutional training courses were conducted at five
Training Centres, viz.
i)   Sri Lanka Technical College, Colombo 10
(later replaced by the International Training
Centre for Rural Leaders, Embilipitiya).
ii)   Centre for Housing, Planning & Building (CHPB),
Colombo 2.
iii)   Polytechnical Institute, Kandy.
iv)   Hardy Senior Technical Institute, Amparai.
v)   Polytechnic-1l Institute., Jaffna.
The Courses consisted of classroom lectures in English, with addi-
tional demonstration exercises in the field and site visits.
Tape/Cassette Recorders were used to improve the trainees' knowledge
of the English language. They were also provided with manuals and
visual aids to reduce time spent in taking down notes, etc.
Subjects covered at the Institution were:-
a)   Building Construction
b)   Drawing
c)   Levelling, Setting Out and Surveying
d)   Quantity Surveying
e)   Works Management
f)   Water Supply and Drainage
g)   Engineering Materials
h)   English



The following Training Allowances were paid3-
a)   During Institutional Training Period  -  Rs.600/- p.m.
b)   During On-Site Training Period         -  Rs.300/- p.m.
2.11   Upper Level Construction Managers' Training
For Upper Level Construction Managers,3 to 4-day Seminars were
organised, covering the following areas:-
a)   The Construction Industry and the National Economy;
b)   Project Formulatioa, Investment Appraisal Techniques,
Capital Decision;
c) Availability of Funds and Lending Policies - 8ahks
and Other Institutions;
d)   Principles of Project Management - Appreciation of
Available Techniques and their Applications;
e)   Estimating and forecasting Project Costs and Project
Cost Control;
f)   Inflation Accounting;
g)   Management Concepts, Science of Decision-Making and
Information Systems;
h)   Administration of Contracts, Forms of Contract, Con-
tract Law and Contract Procedures;
i)   Professional Obligations and Codes of Conduct.
2.12   Middle-Level Construction-Managers' Training
Middle-level Construction Managers were provided S to 6 weeks
part-time courses consisting of lead lectures, group discussions,
case study, audio-visual presentations related to Construction
Procedures, Techniques and Technology..
The cdntent of the Middle Management Course was as follows:-
a)   Role of the Construction Industry in the Economy
b)   Personnel Management
c)   Construction Planning



25
d)   Feasibility Studies and Project Formulation
e)   Contract Procedure
f)   Financial PLanning
g)   Value Engineering and Construction Economics
h)   Management Information Systems
i)   Quality Control
j)   Progress Control
k)   Management of Construction Equipment
1)   Network Analysis
m)   Site Layout and Office Organization
n)   Project Work
2.13   Equipment 2perators'/Mec.4anics' Training
Construction Equipment Operators/Mechanics were provided both
Institutional and On-Site Training by the Construction Equipment
Operator/Mechanic Division. The areas covered were in respect
of Heavy Equipment and Light Equipment respectively.
The duration of the institutional and on-site training periods
were as follows for the different trades:-
Institutional        On-Site
Heavy Equipment operators    1 months    150-200 machines hours
Heavy Equipment Mechanics      6    "             3 months
Light Equipment Operators      2  weeks           2 weeks
Light Equipment Mechanics      5 months           3 months
A Training Centre was established at Galkulama(Anuradhapura) to train Heavy
Construction and Earth-Moving Machinery Operators. It is under-
stood that this Training Centre is the only Centre of its type
in the South Asia Region.
Light Equipment Operator Training Courses were conducted at the
State Engineering Corporation (SEC) Workshop at Peliyagoda,
Heavy Equipment Mechanics had their training at the following
places:-



26
i) f;EC Workshop, Peliyageda.
ii)    Department of Machinery & Equipment Workshop,
lMatmalana.
iii)   :State Development & Constnuction Corporation
(SO & CC), Ratmalana.
iv)    Department of Highways, Regional Workshops, at
Kandy and Jaffna, and Central Workshop, Ratmalana.
Light Equipment Mechanic Training Courses were conducted at:-
SD & CC Workshop, Ratmalana.
SEC Workshop, Pellyagoda.
There was also an Advanced Mechanic Training Course. This was a
structured, modular theoret.cal course on the design features and
operational aspects of assemblies and systems of Heavy Vehicles.
The Course consisted of the following modules:-
a)      Use and care of hand tools and workshop safety
b)      Compression ignition engines and fuel injec-
tion equipment
c)      Lubrication and cooling systems
d)      Vehicle types and layout - braking, steering
and suspension systems
e)      Transmission systems
f)      Automatic electrical equipment and accessories.
The duration of individual modules varied from I to 3 weeks.
The total duration of the Course was 3 months, About 10 to 12
participants normally attended a module.
Participants were employed and drawn from two sources: Techni-
cal Officers and Skilled Workmen who wished to update!their
knowledge.  A few trainees from the basic c;.urses were alsQ
given the opportunity to attend the Advanced Courses.
Institutional training was conducted in Sinhala. All subjects
were covered by lectures in class with practical experience in
the field. Training Manuals were supplied to trainees free of



27
charge in each subject for reference during the institutional
as well as the on-site training.
All Equipment Operator/Mechanic Trainees, other than nominees
from Industrial organizations, were paid a Training Allowance
of Rs.140 per week.
2.14   Training Modules & Monitoring
All modules for the institutional training courses and on-site
training standards for all trades were prepared by local con-
sultants drawn from the National Apprenticeship Board, the Min-
istry of Higher Education and the Labour Department, in associ-
ation with the CITP and the foreign consultants engaged on the
Project.
Monitoring of on-site training was carried out in close collab-
oration with the Department of Buildings and the N.A.B. Each
trainee was issued a "Daily Diary" and a "Work Experi4nce Sched-
ule" which laid down what the trainees were expected to do during
their training period. District Training Officers and District
Engineers of the Buildings Department paid frequent visits to
the site to check on the progress and planning of training acti-
vities with the employers.
The first 10 weeks of the on-site training was funded by the Project,
on completion of which period trainees were expected to undergo
a further 30 weeks of on-site training, which was not funded by the
Project. However, monitoring by District Training Officers and
District Engineers continued during this period as well.
2.15   National Skill  Standards & Trade Tests
Training Programmes conducted by various Ministries and Institutions
differ in levels of kill, training methodology and curriculum for
the same trade. This lack of uniformity is aggravated by the pau-
city of facilities for trade testing. Employers find it difficult
to ascertain the skills.of new recruits, particularly those from
formal Institutional Training Programmes.
In order to overcome this situation, the Project has developed Nat-
ional Skill  Standards in respect of Masonry, Carpentry, Plumbing,



28
Electrical Wiring, Steel Fixing and Barbending, Construction
Site Supervisors, Construction Equipment Mechanics and Construc-
tion Equipment Operators. These Skill Standards were prepared
by a Committee representing training organizations and employers,
both in the Public and Private Sectors.
National Trade Tests have also been developed by the Project to
assess the competence of construction employees according to Skill
Standards. Although the development of National Skill Standards
was initially handled by the Project, the tmplementation and sub-
sequent development activities have been handed over to the N.A.B.
e)         IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING INSTITUTIONS
2.16   At the very outset, for commencing the training activities of the
CITP, the Ministry of Higher Education (MHE) agreed to suspend
the 2-year Crafts Courses in Masonry and Carpentry which were
conducted at the Technical Institutes, To start with, the Masonry
and Carpentry Courses at JTI, Ratmalana, Mattakkuliya and Homagama
were suspended on a ttial basis in 1981. After that, in 1982 the
2-year Training Courses in Masonry and Carpentry were suspended at
all other Technical Institutes as well and the Workshop facilities
were offered to the CITP for conducting short-term training courses
in these trades. The MHE also directed the staff attached to 9
selected Technical Institutes to conduct a Course in Electrical
Wi.:ing, and those of 5 selected Technical Institutes to do a Course
in Plumbing, whilst a new training course in Steel-Fixing and Bar-
bending was introduced at two Technical Institutes. These Training
Courses were drawn up by a group of local consultants attached to
the MHE, NAB, Department of Labour (DOL) and the CITP. The necess-
ary equipment and training materials for implementing the Training
Courses were provided by the CITP direct to the Technical Institutes.
The Teaching and Support Staff attached to the Technical Institutes
remained under the general supervision and administrative control
of the Director, Technical Education of the MHE.
The Centre for Housing, Planning & Building (CHPB), which was est-
ablished under the MHLGC in 1979, was made use of by the CITP to
provide training in Construction Management. Courses were conducted



29
at threts levelss-
i)   A 4-week Course on Construction Project Man-
agement for Senior Staff
ii)   An 8-week Course for Middle Management, Inspec-
tors and Superintendents
iii)   A 12-week Course for new recruits to technical
grades
The Courses have been designed to train staff in SitepOrganization
and Management, appropriate to their level of authority.
f)        BUILDING OF NEW FACILITIES
2.17   Establishment of New Training Centre & Conduct of Courses
A new Training Centre was established at Galkulama, Anuradhapura,
to train Heavy Construction Equipment Operators, as no such faci-
lities existed in the country before commencement of the CITP.
This Training Centre was fully equipped with all types of con-
struction and earth-moving equipment, valued at around 2 million
US dollars, and provided the opportunity t.o train Operators on
the following machines:-
a)     Crawler Tractors - with ripper and winch attachments
b)     Wheel Loader     - with backhoe
c)     Motor Traders
d)     Hydraulic Excavators
e)     Rope Excavators
f)     Self-Propelled Scrapers
g)     Rear Dump Trucks - 16-ton capacity
hk)    Mobile Cranes
i)     Plant Transporter
The following Training Courses were conducted at the Anuradhapura
Centre:-
a)     Broad-based Heavy Earth Moving Machine Operators
Programme on Dozer, Loader plus Excavator or Grader
to a basic employable skill.



30
b)     Specialised Courses at the Employer's request on
any individual type of machine identified.
Special Courses in Plant Management and Utilization for Super-
visoryand Middle-Level Management Personnel were also made
available.
In addition to training Equipment Operators, the Training Centre
has been equipped to widertake the testing of Operators to
nationally-accepte4 standards.
A 'Construction Unit' has also been established-within the frame-
work of this Training Centre to supplement the institutional
training of Plant Operators, and to undertake outside jobs such
as land-clearing and reclamation, irrigation tank rehabilitation,
earthwork schemes, etc., which incidentally provided a sizeable
amount of income.
2.18   Project Monitoring & Evaluation System
A Project Monitoring and Evaluating System, acceptable to the IDA,
has also been established and three independent Tracer Studies were
carried out in 1983, 1984 and 1985 to evaluate the performance of
trainees and their affiliation to industry. An Impact Assessment
Study has also been conducted in 1987 to ascertain trainee atti-
tudes, quality of output, wage patterns, etc.
g)        PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT
2.19   The procedure, as per Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, had been adopted for the procurement of equipment.
Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US $.5000
each were procured in accordance with the prudent shopping pro-
cedures.
For items in excess of US $.5000, international competitive bidding
procedures had been adopted. The Tender Documents setting out the
Specifications,and other terms were forwarded to the Association
prior to making it available to the prospective suppliers. By



31
publication of advertisements in trade journals and other rele-
vant media, the suppliers were invited to quote on the specified
Tender Documents which had to be purchased at a fee. The tenders
received were evaluated and the basis of selection indicated to
the Association prior to awarding the Contract.
The suppliers of these items were settled direct by the Associa-
tion on receipt of documentation from the Project Director.
A complete list of items of equipment procured is given in Table 4.
h)         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The technical assistance was provided by qualified expatriate
personnel through the British Council, W.S. Atkin International,
and Foster Wheeler of the United Kingdom. The details of the
personnel are as per Table 5. A Summary of the Appraisal Estimate
and the Actual Deployment are as follows:-
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Appraisal*     Actual     Difference
Man-Months   Man-Months  M4an-Months
Construction Industry Advisor      36           15            21
Senior Training Manager            36           12            24
Equipment Operations Advisor       72           a5           (13)
Equipment maintenance Advisor      36            6            30
Technical Management & Super-
vision Advisor          36            is           21
Masonry Advisor                    72           52            20
Carpentry Advisor                  72           40            32
Plumbing Advisor                   18            -            18
Electrical Training Advisor        18           28           (10)
senior Craft Training Advisor                   66           (66)
Apprenticeship Advisor                          39           (39)



32
Appraisal      Actual     Difference
Man-Months   Man-Months   Man-Months
Eqyipment Machinery Train-
ing Specialist              -           53          (53)
Management Training Advisor       -            9          ( 9)
Senior Contract Advisor           -           12          (12)
Financial Advisor                 -           12          (12)
Site Engineer                     -           13          (13)
Senior Highways Engineer          -           13          (13)
Senior Traffic Engineer           -            9          ( 9)
Others                                        34          (34)
432         538          (106)
The Actual Period of Technical Assistance was 45 man-years compared
to the estimated 36 man-years. The extended two%&year period was
the main reason for the difference of 9 man-years (25%).
--)       FULFUIMENT OF COVENANTS (Ref: Development Credit Agreement of 1981)
2.21   The Credit  (Ref:  Sec. 2.01 in Credit Agreement)
The Credit Agreement provides for a SDR 10.9 facility covering
all foreign costs and a percentage of local costs of training
materials and locally procured equipment. The actual withdrawal
of credit amounted to SDR 10 million, which is less than the
value in the Agreement. Devaluation of the rupee was one of the
reasons for the shortfall in the withdrawal.
(Ref: Sec. 2.03)
The procurement of equipment had been in accordance with the
procedure laid out in Schedule 3.



(Ref. Sec. 2.04)
The Closing Date of the Project was extended to December 31,
1986, from December 31, 1984.
2.22   EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
(Ref. Sec. 3.01)
The Project has been carried out through the Ministry of Local
Government, Housing & Construction.
(Ref. Sec. 3.02)
The Consultants were recruited with the consent of the Association.
(Ref. Sec. 3.03)
The equipment had been adequately insured incident to the acquisition,
transportation and installation.
The goods and services financed out of the proceeds Of the Credit
were used solely for the Project.
(Ref. Sec. 3.04)
The Project has furnished to the Association Reports, TraiAing
Programmes, Contract Documents and Procurement Schedules of the
Project.
The Project has maintained records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor progress of the Project,
The IDA disbursements extend upto 6 months from the Closing Date,
i.e. June 30, 1987.
(Ref. Sec. 3.05)
All land required for the Project has been provided by the
Borrower.



(Ref. Sec. 3.06)
A Project Cell, under a full-time Project Director, acceptable
to the Association, has been functioning throughout the
project period, vide para 2.03.
A National Training Committee for Construction Industry has
functioned as required, vide para 2.03.
(Ref. Sec. 3.07)
a) Standardization Procedures for selection of trainees,
registration of workers, etc., were started in April
1981 and completed in.stages for different Grades.
b) Contract Specifications, Procedures and Documentation
were completed by the end of December 1983.
(Ref. Sec. 3.08)
(Ref. Sec. 3.09)
The trainees have been provided with allowances during the
Training Period adequate to meet their out-of-pocket expenses.
(Ref. Sec. 3.10)
Fully complied with.
2.23   CTHER COVENANTS (Ref. Sec. 4.01)
a) Cormplied with
b)  Th  Project has maintained appropriate accounting records
and the Annual Financial Statements had been audited by an
independent auditor, the Auditor-General. The accounts
upto the end of 1985 had been audited.and the Draft Report



j
of the Auditor-General had been forwarded on December
4, 1986, slightly beyond the target date of end-September
1986. These Reports and the Accounts have been forwarded
to the Association. The Draft Accounts for 1986 are ready
for auditing.



J
CHAPTER 111
PROJECT COSTS a FINANCING
a)        APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
At appraisal, the estimated total project cost was US $.25.03
million and the foreign exchange component US $.10.81 million,
representing 43% of the total project cost (see Table 6).
b,)        FINAL COSTS
These are presented in Tables 7 and 8. Details of data in Table
8 are further presented in Tables 4, 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3.
A comparison of the actual cost and the appraisal estimates of
the project are as under.
Appraisal  Actual  Difference   %
Total cost in Rupees Million    450.4    475.6      +25.2      + 6
Total cost in USD Million         25.03    18.75    - 6.28     -25
c)         EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY
The categorised expenditure as presented in Table 7 is summarised
below:
SUMMARY OF TOTAL EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY
(US $ Million )
CATEGORY                APPRAISAL             ACTUAL
Amount    %        Amount
Fixed Assets                    3.46    14          4.00     21
Training Materials              8.80    35          4.95     26
Technical Assistance, Training
Costs & Overhead Expenses      12.77    51          9.80     53
TO0 T A L                      25.03   100         18.75    100



37
In spite of the extension of the closing date to December 31, 1986
(from December 31, 1984), resulting in an increase in the cost due
to annual inflation, the project cost in Rupees was only slightly
above the appraisal estimates. However, the cost in US Dollars
was well below the appraisal estimates which could be attributed
to the following reason:-
- Unexpected fall in the Rupee exchange rate against
the US Dollar, during the period 1981 to 1986
(Note 2 Table 7)
(1981: Rs.19/50, 1986: Rs.28/02 - a 44% depreciation)
d)        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
The estimated cost of technical assistance was Rs.74 million* com-
pared to the actual cost of Rs.114 millionr whicl resulted in an
increase pf 40 million (54%). The increase could be attributed
to the following:-
- Highways Training which was not included in the
Appraisal Estimates.
- The 25% increase in the man-years from the Est-
imates
- The considerable fall in the rupee exchange rate
against the US dollar during the period under
review
The actual technical assistance costs represent 24% of the total
project cost.
e)        FINANCING & DISBURSEMENT
The International Development Association (IDA) entered into an
agreement with the Government of Sr' Lanka in 1981, extending a
credit facility to an equivalent of SDR 10.9 million as per Credit
No.1130 CE. The US Dollar equivalent at that time was 13.5 million.
The remaining local cost, as per the Appraisal Estimates amounting
to US Dollars 11.5 million, was to be met by the Government of Sri
Lanka.
*Source:  Staff Appraisal Report - March 3, 1981 (Table 9)
+ Table 8.2



38
Disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit were agreed on
the following basis:-
a)   Equipment            s 100% of the cost of foreign expenditure
for directly imported items,
100% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured items, and
80% of the purchase price of locally
procured items.
b)   Training Materials   : 50% of expenditure (80% from November
1983)
c)   Technical Assistance : 100% of expenditure
Expenditure incurred on the Project Preparation Fund (PPFY was to
be refinanced by the Association in the first year of the Project
to a maximum of US $.240,000 equivalent.
Applications for reimbursement/disbursement under this Credit were
made from 1981 and were fully documented. The closing date was
extended to December 31, 1986, and as per the Agreement, it enabled
the applications for reimbursement to be forwarded up to the next
six-month period, i.e. June 30, 1987.
The IDA disbursements and the actual receipts from the Government
of Sri Lanka are as per Tables 9 and 10 respectively and are summ-
arised below:
ESTIMATED & ACTUAL SOURCE OF FINANCE
(USD Million.)
APPRAISAL              ACTUAL
GOSL     IDA        GOSL     IDA
TOTAL      11.5    13.5        12.6    11.4
46       54         53       47



39
CHAPTER IV
PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME
a)         OVERVIEW         Attainment of Project Objectives
4.01   Objective 1      Training about 45,000 workers in basic
construction skills and upgrading about
9600 workers in advanced construction
skills.
These targets were laid down in the Appraisal Report in 1979-
80, when the construction industry in Sri Lanka attained un-
precedented high growth rates, reaching its peak in mid-1981.
Thereafter, the growth rate began to decline and, in concurr-
ence with the IDA, GOSL decided to re-assess the training
needs. The first assessment was made by the NIBM in 1982 and
the training targets for Artisans were reduced to 23,900 without
specifying whether the output should be at basic or advanced
levels. The Project achieved a figure of 20,669 for Artisans,
in addition to an output of 12,143 on the Million Houses
Programme.
4.02   Objective 2      Training about 1800 in Equipment
Operation and Maintenance
As a result of the NIBM's re-assessment, this target for train-
ing Equipment Operators and Mechanics was increased to 2830.
The actual output for these trades has been 2331, which is con-
sidered close enough.
4.03   Objective 3  :  Training about 900 in Works Supervision
and Quality Control and about 80 in
Improved Works Planning and Management.
These targets have been revised to 1000 andl50 respectively in
the NIBM's re-assessment. The actual output figures against
these revised targets have been 1499 Works Supervisors and 1100
Works Managers - not to mention the benefits derived by 179
Engineers of the Road Development Authority on a short Orienta-
tion Course. The objective has been achieved well above
expectations.



40
4.04    ObJective 4 :  Strengthening the Agencies and Institutions
Involved in On-Site Training and Trade-
Testing.
The Tracer Studies reveal that the on-site aspects of the Train-
ing Programmes carried out at over 500 work sites were successful.
However, we feel this has to be confirmed by National Trade Tests,
but upto the end of December 1986 only 6730 craftsmen and construc-
tion supervisors from amongst both CITP and non-CITP trainees had
been tested by the NAB. Though the Project has developed Trade
Tests for all the relevant Trades, the Trade-Testing Mechanism
has to be improved aud expanded within the N.A.B. for more exped-
itious testing of workers who complete their training.
4.05    Objective 5.:  Improve Methods and Procedures Related
to the Construction Industry.
The Project has been able to produce manuals on how methods and
procedures in the industry sh,uld be improved. These are the
Conditions of Contract for building and Civil Engineering Works,
Guidelines for Tender Procedures, and several Technical Specifi-
cations which have been accepted as national documents. Govern-
ment construction agencies have been instructed to abide by these
documents which are being continuously updated. However, it is
difficult to measure whether instructions are being complied with,
in the short term. It will require a system of constant monitor-
ing and feed-back to make sure that the documents are used by both
the Public and Private Sectors. This will have to be a long-term
objective to be carridd out in the future. Please see Annex 5
for list of documents produced by 'he Project.
Post-Graduate Courses in Construction Management have been set up
under the auspices of the University of Moratuwa, where Degree
Courses in Quantity Surveying have already commenced. In addition,
a Post-Graduate Course in Quantity Surveying is also to be set up
at the same University.
The Construction Contractors Association in Sri Lanka has been
established with links to the Builders'Employers' Federation of
the U.K. and the International Federation of Asia & Pacific
Contractors' Association. The Association is being assisted to



41
develop itself into a powerful organization so that it could
represent the interests of all construction contractors in Sri
Lanka.
A Report on Design Economics has been produced which should prove
useful in the economic design of buildings and other Civil Engin-
eering structures.
A Report covering the subject of Strategic Planning in the Construc-
tion Industry is to be implemented shortly.
b)         TRAINEE ENROLMENT & OUTPUT
The eligibility for enrolment to the different Training Courses
varies with the Trades, as set out below:
4.06   Artisans  -  Basic Skills Module
Both males and females over 17 years of age are eligible for training.
Applicants for Carpentry and Masonry do not require any special
educational qualifications. However, they must be physically fit and
be able to work at heights,
Applicants for Electrical Wiring must have a minimum of 6 Passes at
the GCE (0) Level in Science subjects, or equivalent qualifications.
Applicants for Plumbing, Steel-Fixing.and Barbending should have read
at least upto Grade 8.
4.07   Artisans  -  Advanced Skills Module
Trainees who have completed 10 weeks of Basic Skills Institutional
Training and all skill modules in the Works Experience Schedule during
the 40 weeks of on-site training are eligible to apply.
In addition, those who are already employed in the industry as Skilled
craftsmen, including the self-employed craftsmen, can apply. Those
employed in the industry have to be recommended by their employers.
4.08   Construction Supervisory Training
School-leavers applying for this training should be between 18 and 22
years of age on the Date of Application. They should possess the GCE
(0) Level Certificate with Passes in 6 subjects, including 3 Credits
obtained at not more than two sittings, in addition to Passes in Sinhala/
Tamil/English - any one of which should have been the medium of instruc-
tion at the GCE (0) Level; and a Credit Pass in Arithmetic/Commercial
Arithmetic/Mathematics; and a Credit Pass in Physics/Science.



42
OR
Equivalent or higher qualifications as judged by the NAB.
They should also satisfy the misUimum standards of physical fitness
laid down by the NAB.
In the case of Supervisors already employed in the Construftion
Industry, age and experience will be considered in lieu of acad-
emic qualifications if a contractor agrees to pay the trainee
during institutional training. Otherwise three years experience
in a reputed establishment and three Passes at the GCE (0) Level,
including Mathematics, in addition to a working knowledge of
English, are essential requirements.
4.09   Management Training
The two Schemes drawn up for Upper Level and Middle Level Managers
are as follows for eligibility to receive training:-
Upper Level   :  Those engaged in positions of policy-
formulation and decision-making;
Middle Level      Those attached to work sites and in
charge of one or more projects, with
responsibilities in Project-formulation,
Feasibility Studies, Project-financing,
Contract and. Construction Management,
etc;
4.10 Heavy Equipment Mechanic Course (Basic)
a) Nominees of Industrial Organizations (Public and Private
Sectors:
i)  Should be employed in an industrial organization
where Heavy Construction Equipment is used;
ii)  Should have worked as a semi-skilled or Helper-
Mechanic for a minimum period of 2 to 4 years on
related equipment;



43
b)   Others:
Persons who have completed the Mechanic Training Programme
of course-duration one year or more, conducted by the MHE
or Labour Department or any other reputed training establish-
ment.
4.11      Light Equipment Mechanic Course (Basic)
a)   Nominees of Industrial Organizations (Public and Private
Sectors)
b)   Others:
(Same as for Heavy Equipment Mechanic Course, given above).
4.12      Heavy Equipment Operator Training
a)  Nominees of Industrial Organizations (Public Sector):
i) Should be employed in an organization where
heavy construction machinery is used;
ii) Should possess Driving Licence to drive a
motor coach;
iii)  Should have a minimum of 2 to 3 years exper-
ience as a semi-skilled Operator or a
Cleaner/Greaser of the machine type identi-
fied for undergoing training.
b)   Others:
Those who have completed the Driver Training Prog-
ramme conducted by the NAB.
4.13      Light Equipment Operator Training
a)   Nominees of Industrial organizations (Public and Private
Sectors):
i) Should be an employee of an organization where
light construction equipment is used;



44
ii) An affidavit from the employer that the nominee
is either handling light construction equipment
or would be engaged on such equipment after train-
ing, would be advantageous.
b)   Others:
By application.
The recruitment and registration of trainees for on-site train-
ing was handled by the On-Site Training Division;of the CITP.
This was done in co-ordination with the NAB and the Department
of Exildings.
4.14      Registration of Trainees
All trainees have been given a National Registration Number.
A computer-based registration system has been adopted to cover
all skill areas and all construction workers.
It hr- not been possible to collect the numbers enrolled for
training in the different trades from the documents made avail-
able to us, Even the Quarterly Progress Reports which gave
this information at the start of the Project adopted a different
fonmat of reportinq later on, without giving the detailed
particulars of the number enrolled, the number who started
training and the number who completed the training. However,
the drop-out percentages from the samples analysed in the
several Tracer Studies are available for reference.
4.15      EnrolNent of Artisan Trainees
Artisan Trainees were recruited from three sourcqsx-
i) Registrants at the District Engineers' Offices
of the BuildingsDepartment - Nominations made by
the D E (Buildings);
ii) Advertisement by NAB;
iii) Phase I of the CITP - 1 Million Houses Prograwme



ft -,
Candidates were interviewed by the Principals of the Technical
Institutes of the MHE, and 20 'rainees selected for each course
of trainina.
4.16   Enrolment of Supervisors
Supervisors were enrolled from amongst
i; Nominees of the Buildings Departmentr
ii) Nominees of the NHDA, various Agencies under
the Mahaweli Authority, including the Private
Sector with (i) and (ii) comprising 50% of tha
total intake;
iii) Balance 50% through the NAB from amongst cand-
idates who applied for vacancies of Special
Apprentices in the NAB and failed to get
selected, and
iv) By newspaper advertisement.
4.17   Enrolment of Equipment Operators/Mechanics
In the case of Equipment Operators/Mechanics, 75% of the recruits
were nominees of Industrial Organizations (Public and/or Private)
and the balance 25% from Others, as detailed out above.
4.18   Trainee Output
The actual Output Figures for the different Trades, Supervisors and
Managers as at 31st December 1986, have been furnished by the ICTAD
(Successor to CITP), These have been summarised in Table 11 for
comparison with the Targets given in the Appraisal Report and the
Revised Targets applicable to the Project Period, as glven in the
NIBM Reports for the Assessment of Training Needs (Studies of March
1983 and December 1985).
It is clear from the Table that the Actual Output is Bar in excess
of the Revised Targets even as an average for each year of the
Project Period. It has also to be remembered that in addition
no less than 8839 Artisans were receiving trainiAg on the Million
Houses Programme at the close of the Project in December 1986.
The average number trained per year would be even more if, at least,
part of this figure of 8889 is taken into account.



46
It could therefore be rightly concluded that, in terms of numerical
production, the Project has been successful.
4.19   Quality of Training
As for Quality of the products and their application to industry, etc.
our comments on the Tracer Studies and Impact Assessment Study which
follow later in this Report, would be appropriate.
The CITP trainee had a higher pass rate in comparison with non-
CITP trainees (vide para 4.46).
4.20  Cost of Training
The average overall cost per trainee works out to Rs.16,613, if
those trained on the Million Houses Programme are also taken into
consideration. Otherwise, the cost per trainee is of the order of
Rs.24,500. This appears reasonable as the capital costs have not
been depreciated long enough for the opening phase of the Project;
and we are reliably informed that at least one other similar
Project, conducted by another agency in Sri Lanka, has recorded
Unit Costs more than double this amount!
c)        SHORT-TERM IN-SERVICE TRAINING COURSES
4.21  Fellowship Programmes
The first Fellowship Programme was implemented through the British
Council (BC). Here, the fellowships were offered for the study of
Technical Education and Vocational Training available to construc-
tion industry workers in the UK. The BC arranged for a total of
27 man-months of fellowships at a cost of US $.0.12 m.
The second component of the F&llowship Programme was arranged by the
Project through Diplomatic Missions in the Sbuth-East Asian
Rdgionv in the form of study tours for a few key members of the
Project Staff to enable them to familiarsie,themselves with the
Technical Education and Vocational Training Systems in the coun-
tries of the region. A total number of 7 man-months were deployed



47
at 4 total cost of Us $.0.06 m for this Programme.
4.22 Instructor Training
A crash-programme had to be developed, with World Bank approval,
to upgrade the technical skill level of the Instructors, and several
short-term training courses were designed and implemented by the
Project. The Courses were cut down to a. maximum duration of 5 days
at a stretch, as the Instructors could not be kept away from their
Training Centres for longer periods at a time without disruption
to the on-going programmes. The cost of this training was minimal
as the Instructors were paid only their daily subsistence and
travelling for attending these Courses,though they had to attend
Programmes on more than one occasion to cover the full content of
the upgrading course.
A total of 152 Instructors participated in a total of 46 short-
term upgrading courses in Masonry, Carpentry, Elect±dcal Wiring,
Plumbing, Steel Fixing and Barbending, conducted by the Artisan
Training Division of the CITP.
The Supervisory and Management Training Division also conducted two
Teacher Training Course§for 20 teachers in 1984.
4.23     On-Job Training
Short course on Methodblogy/Management Systems for I;-Plant
Training Officers of the Buildings Department and the NAB, to
enable them to organise and monitor the On-Job Training Programme
that was in operation islandwide, had to be developed, Sone 10
of these Courses were conducted,
Inaddition, a Training Officers' course was developed in conjunc-
tion with the NIBM for about 20 Officers of the Buildings Depart-
ment. Thereby, a nucleus of well-trained officers had been stationed
in the 24 Districts who were able to effectively operate the On-
Job Training Phase of the Project.
Eleven Instructors were trained in heavy equipment operation by the
Operator & Mechanic Training Division of the CITP.



48
4.24   Training of Administrative & Technieal Staff on
the Million Houses Programme
In addition to the Skills Training Programme arranged for Masons
and Carpenters on the Million Houses Programme,% as referred to
earlier in this Report, the CITP undertook to train the imple-
menters of the Programme as well.  Accordingly, the Project
engaged the services of a group of Consultants from the Develop-
ment Planning Unit of the University College, London, and the
14assachusetts Institute of Technology. This Team conducted five
Regional Training Workshops for the Administrative and Technical
Staff in the Rural Sub-Programme at district-level. Thereby 350
persons received training.
4.25  Training in Maintenance of Buildings 6 Electrical Installations
The CITP developed and conducted short training courses for Build-
ing Maintenance Operators to start with, followed by similar short
courses on a pilot basis for Electrical Installation Maintenance
Operators and Maintenance Supervisors.
4.26   Training for Highways Department (now Road Development Authority)
The CITP designed and implemented five short-term Training Courses
for the following:-
Chief Engineers
Executive Engineers
Technical Officers
Road Maintenance Agents
Skilled and Semi-Skilled Workers
4.27   South-Asia Regional Conference
The CITP sponsored the South-Asia Regional Conference on Skilled
Manpower Development along with the World Bank in January 1984.
This Conference proved to be an useful forum for exchanging ideas
and experiences between personnel involved in Technical Education
and Vocational Training in the South-Asia Region. The partici-
pants at the Conference were delegations from Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and from 10 Multi-lateral and Bilateral Agencies.



49
d)         DEVELOPMENT OF CURRICULA & OTHER TRAINING MATERIALS
4.28   Curricula for Artisans
As mentioned earlier too, the curricula for Artisan Training
and Equipment Mechanic & Operator Training had been developed
by a Team of expatriate and local experts. In 1985, the curr-
icula for training in the different artisan trades were assessed
by the Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka
(ACCSL) as to their relevance for meeting the local needs of the
Construction Industry, and were found to be satisfactory. in
the case of the curricula drawn up for the Equipment Mechanics,
a Review Committee of local Equipment Mechanic experts had been
commissioned to assess their relevance to the needs of Heavy and
Light Equipment mechanics and, based on the Committee's recomm-
endations, the curricula had been improved upon.
4.29   Curricula for Managers
In the area of Management Training too, an analysis has been made
by the CITP/ICTAD of all the relevant evaluations which had bebn
collected from participants from the start of the Project. Thereby,
specific problems within the Construction Industry had been iden-
tified, and a Sri Lanka specific software package for Construction
Planning had been developed. New Courses had been designed in
Construction Management for upper and middle-level Engineers by the
Project. Courses have been identified and course-curricula developed
for the National Water Supply & Drainage Board also. A Management/
Supervision Course was developed for the Road Development Authority
too.
4.30   Development of Training Material
The Project designed and developed a considerable number of low-cost
training manuals in English which were translated to Sinhala and
Tamil. These were issued to. Trainees and Instructots to supplement
the skill training they received on the Training Programmes. These
Training Manuals have become effective reference material, produced
at low cost, capable of being reproduced even after IDA support for
the Project was over. These Manuals have been produced for both



50
institutional and on-job training separately. An islandwide
on-job training system had to be-set up,.using staff of the
Buildings Department to assist with the recruitment, monitor-
ing institutional training, placement of trainees in the
industry, monitoring practical in-plant training, and ensuring
job-rotation and the payment of training Allowance, etc. For
this purpose, the necessary management systems were developed
and produced in manual-form.
e)         SPECIAL STUDIES
ASSESSMENT OF TRAINING NEEDS
4.31   Introduction
During the lifetime of this Project from June 1981 to December
1986, two Studies for the Assessment of Training Needs in the
Construction Industry have been carried out by the National Ins-
titute of Business Management (NIBM), at the request of the
Ministry of Local Government Housing & ConstructioiG (MLCHC).
The first Study commenced on 15th September 1982 and NIBM pub-
lished its Report in March 1983, whilst the second Study, directed
more towards the second Construction Industry Training Project
(CITP) or Institute for Construction Training & Development (ICTAD)
Project, commenced on 15th September 1985 and NIBM issued its
Report in December 1985. The 1982/83 Study gave the training
requirements yearly for the period 1981 to 1988,tand the 1985
Study the Manpower Requirements for the period 1986 to 1990.
4.32  Background to the Studies
The first CITP Programme,which was started in June 1981 with
World Bank assistance, was directed to meet the demand for
skilled construction workers, brought about by the rapid expan-
sion in construction activities in Sri Lanka, combined with the
higher exodus of skilled workers to the Middle East. After the
Project commenced, it was felt by the CITP Authorities that the
Assessment of Construction Staff to be trained, as given in the
World Bank Appraisal Report, was on the high side, and a more
accurate assessment was called for from an independent body.



51
Accordingly, the NIBM was entrusted with the assignment of assess-
ing the training needs of construction workers in Sri Lanka in
September 1982, with World Bank approval.
In 1985, the CITP Authorities felt that it was opportune again to
review the projected training requirements of manpower made in
March 1983, in the light of the changes that had taken place in
the Construction Industry and in the economic environment, specially
after the ethnic disturbances of July 1983. It was &&so felt that
the quality of workmanship of the existing manpower-stock was also
not up to the acceptable standards and that there was a need for
re-training existing staff already in employment, Therefore, a
further study was assigned to the NISM to review and update their
figures on these lines.
4.33   Summary of Work Undertaken
i)   1982/83_Study
a) Identification of basic skills required in the
Construction Industry,
b) Clarification of Construction Projects accord-
ing to certain categories of work.
c) Identification of major construction work-origi-
nators in Sri Lanka, together with Cost of
Construction for 1981 (the base year) and Esti-
mated Cost from 1982 to 1988.
d) Developing standard ratios for converting Con-
struction Costs to Manpower Requirements by
obtaining data on Construction Activities.
e) Studying the contribution made by Institutions,
other than the CITP, in the training of con-
struction workers.
f)  Studying the contribution made by non-institu-
tional Training Schemes.
g) Studying the exodus of construction workers to
the Middle East and the loss of staff due to
retirement.



52
h) Preparing two Scenarios to indicate the most
likely investment profiles for different cat-
egories of work from 1982 to 1988.
i) Designing a computer simulation model to assess
Manpower Requirements and the need for CITP-
training for each year during the period 1982
to 1988.
ii) 1985 Study
a) Expansion of list of Construction Projects
earlier developed to include categories of
work with significant investment levels and
manpower development profiles.
b) Inclusion of a Special Mason Trade for special
finishes to buildings as a separate skill
category.
c) Increasing the number of work-originators
to cover organizations such as the Road
Development Authority, etc.
d) Estimating the cost of construction for each
type of Project undertaken by the appropriate
work-originators from 1986 to 1990.
e) Revision of standard ratios for converting
Construction Costs to Manpower Raquirements
for each work-category.
f) Developing standard ratios for converting Con-
struction Costs to Manpower Requirements for
new categories of work, such as Building
Maintenance.
g) Studying the contributions made by Institu-
tions, other than the CITP, for training of
construction workers from 1981 to 1985, and
making projections from 1986:to 1990.
h) Revising the model used for estimating the
numbers trained by non-instituional Training
Schemes.



53
i)   Studying the exodus of construction work-
ers to the Middle East and making projec-
tions for such exodus during 1986 to 1990.
J)   Revising the model used for estimating loss
due to retirements.
k)   Studying the re-entry of construction workers
to local employment after returning from
abroad.
1)   Preparing a Scenario to cover the most likely
investment profile for different work cate-
gories for the period 1986 to 1988.
m)   Developing a computer simulation model to ass-
ess Manpower REquirements and the need for
CITP tnaining from 1986 to 1990.
n)   Assessing the Re-training Requirements of
skill categories already in employment.
4.34  Summary of Results
The two Scenarios worked for in the 1982/83 Study were:
i) Estimated Investment Profile, based on probable
workloads - (Scenario 1)
ii) Estimated Investments based on 6% growth each
year - (Scenario 2)
The projected training requirements arrived at by the two Scen-
arios from 1981 to 1986 are annexed (vide Tables 12 and 13).
The corresponding figures obtained from the 1985 Study, based
on the Estimated Xnvestment Profile only (Scenario A) are
given in Table 14 for the year 1986 alone, the last year of
the Revised CITP Programmes, for purpose of comparison. It
is evident that the total number to be trained in 1986 accord-
ing to Scenario A is 5582, which compares very favourably
with the yearly-average of 5576 under ScenAr4o 2 a%d iis close
enough to the Annual Average of 5478 prrt1yad Ot qyen under
Scenario 1. Therefore, the twq Stuien tor UTaining Needs
conducted by the NIBM, appear quite reaUlstic and accurate in spite of



54
the estimated projected figures used therein. The December 1985
Report also gives the Re-training Requirement for Manpower already
at work for the 5-year period 1986 to 1990. The average-yearly'
Re-training Requirements are also shown in Table 14. The Total
Anhual Retraining Requirement is found to be of the same order as
the Training Requirement for 1986,
4.35  Comparison of NIBM Targets with Actual Outputs
The total manpower trained on the CITP Programme as at 31.12.86,
advised by ICTAD, is 37,742. This number includes a total of
12,143 trained on the Million Houses Programme which got off
the ground in 1984. The yearly-average of the manpower trained
during the period 1981 to 1986 is 6862 per year, which is far
above the Revised Targets of the NIBM of nearly 5600 per year.
4.36  Tracer Studies
During the lifetime of the Project, three Tracer Studies have
been carried out. The first Study was conducted in March 1983
by Mr 0. Balaram, Statistical Officer of the Ministry of Local
Government, Housing & Construction (MLGHC) with a view to estab-
lishing the employment pattern of the CITP Trainees. This
Report is dated June 20, 1983. The Secondy Study on Former
Trainees trained by CITP was also carried out in February 1984
by Mr Balaram, who designed the Survey and Questionnaire and also
briefed the District Staff of the Department of Census & Statistics,
whilst the Survey Results were analysed by both the Statistical
Staff of the MLGHC and the Staff of the CITP. The Report is
dated September 1984.    The third Tracer Study has been carried
out in March 1985 by the Department of Census & Statistics at the
request of the CITP of the MLGHC. The Report has been published
in September 1985.
4.37   The March 1983 Survey
This Jurvey was carried out at the time when the CITP,which was
started in June 1981, was training approximately 6000 construc-
tion workers per year. Courses were conducted at a Technical
Institute or Training Centre, followed by a period of on-site



training, during which period the trainees were paid an allow-
ance. The duration of the Course varied from 20 weeks for
Artisans to 60 weeks for Supervisors.
The main objectives of the Survey were to ascertain:-
i)   Numbers of trainees remaining affiliated to the
Construction Industry after their funded on-site
training was completed.
ii)   Changes in employment which occured after the Train-
ing Period
iii)   The numbers employed and reasons for this
iv)   wage-patterns
v)   Variations according to District and Trade
vi)  'rrainer't imprpssions of the suitability of their
The method adopted was to select 500 trainees at random from a
list of 2279 to obtain a fair geographic distribution throughout
the Island, approximately in conformity with the numbers trained,
in Government Departments and Corporations.
They were grouped into different survey-districtsand interviewed
personally by Statistical Officers, each of whom had been assigned
only one District, and briefed in Colombo on the details of the
Questionnaire Form. In this manner, the samples covered all 24
Districts of the Island and all the Artisan trades included in the
Appraisal Report.
Of the above sample of 500, it was found that
273 were still affiliated to the Industry
94 were continously unemployed
133 were not questioned on their employment-patterns as they had
left during funded on-site training or were not traceable due
to incomplete or inaccurate addresses.
500



56
Of the 367 who were questioned, 75% were still affiliated to
Industry, and 25% were continuously unemployed. The Study there-
fore concludes that the Project was successful overall. However,
it has to be noted that, of the total sample, only 73% was avail-
able for questioning, the balance 27% having left during on-site
training or not being traceable.
It was also seen from the Study that Plumbers and Electrical Wire-
men were poorly paid and a high percentage were out of employment.
Carpenters have been most successful in becoming self-employed.
The wage pattern of Supervisors, as given in the Report, appears
misleading in that their maximum wage rate of Rs.30 to Rs.40 per
day is below that of Masons and Carpenters - maximum Rs.50 to 60
per day, whose work they are supposed to supervise!
4.3e  The February 1984 Survey
The rate of training about 6000 per year had been maintained up to
this time, partly at an Institution or Training Centre and partly
on-site. The course-duration ranged from 6 weeks for Operators to
60 weeks for Supervisors. The Objectives of this Survey and the
methods adopted were basically the same as those of the previous
one, and the Survey took place in February 1984.
This time, a 10% sample was arrived at from a total of approximately
9000 trainees. It is mentioned in the September 1984 Report (page 4
Section 1.7.2) that the 413 people who had been interviewed in the
first Survey were re-surveyed, but this number should have been
correctly only 367. Some modifications were made to the questioning-
process to try and    avoid ambiguities which had arisen in the
first Survey. A special section was included for Equipment Opera-
tors. The scope of the Survey remained the same.
Of the total sample of 895, It was revealed thats
517 were still affiliated to the Industry
183 were continuously unemployed
and 195 were not available for questionJng
The Survey therefore points out that 73% of those questioned were



57
affiliated to the Industry. However, as pointed out in the
first Survey, only 78% of the total sample was available for
questionLng, the balance 22 not being traceable.
There does not appear to have been a significant difference
in the results of the two Surveys, except that the unemployment
figures for Supervisors has increased from 18% to 48%. The
training for Supervisors could therefore be reduced for some
time.                     '
The Survey also revealed that the general rate of permanent
employment was low. A new trade of Steel Fixer/Barbender had
been introduced since the last Survey, but ln view of the high
level unemployed after training, the Recoiinendations made in
the Study to combine this trade with the Mason, appears accept-
able, though this work could be entrusted to Structural Fitters
engaged in Steel Work Erection as well. The low level of affil-
iation of Electrical Wiremen and Plumbers continued in this
Survey too. The reason may probably be due to their not acquir-
ing the correct skills and continuing to work on their own, as
pointed out in the Report, and the matter needs further investi-
gation and remedial action.
Questioning trainees of about the same period through their career
in both these Surveys was definitely a drawback. The aim should
have been to find out whether the employment-patterns had been
consistent or not over the period the Courses had been run, as
rightly pointed out in the Study.
4.39   The March 1985 Tracer Study
From June 1981 to March 1984, the CITP had trained 15,000 construc-
tion workers.
The main objectives of this Survey were the same as before in add-
ition to identifying any further improvements required to the
Training Programme. The scope of the Survey was also the same as
before, the subject-coverage too being the same or similar.
The Survey covered all the trainees who were trained from June 1981
till March 1984 under the CITP. In the case of Light and Heavy



58
Equipment Operators, the information was collected by a postal
questionnaire. For all other trades, formal iricerviews were
held. The Survey was carried out in March 1985.
For the select'on of the sample-trainees, the computer print- outs
giving the list of trainees who were trained under different trades
in batches at various Institutions and Training Centres were used
as the frame. About 10% of the trainees (i.e. 1409) were thus
selected. This sample consisted of two sets of former trainees.
The first set of the sample comprised 509 trainees who were found
affiliated to the Industry at the last Survey. The second set con-
sisted of 900 trainees, selected at random from the test, as given
below:
For Artisans   : 30% from those who had their institutional train-
ing in 1982
60%             -do-                       1983
10%             -do-                       1984
For Supervisors: Trainees not attached to Government Organizations
For Equipment Mechanics and Operators: 50% from new recruits
(and balance), 50% from those sponsored by Public and Private
Organizations.
Of the 1409 trainee-samples, only 1094 or 78% were available for
questioning, and 933 of them were affiliated to the Industry.
Therefore, the percentage employed was 85% of those from whom Reports
were received. This is a marked improvement from the previous Surveys.
The unemployment was highest amongst the Electrical Wiremen (30%),
whilst the Mason trade had the lowest (98).
It is also revealed that on an average a permanently-employed trainee
had a monthly income of Rs.1135/-. This appears to be a fairly rea-
sonable wage. Even a self-employed trainee had an average daily
earning of Rs.5l/-, which is considered quite attractive for a crafts-
man with Class III skills.
The unemployed trainees had the following reasons to give for their
unemployment:-
a)   Difficulty to find jobs
b)   Lack of adequate experience
c)   Inadequate training - both institutional and on-site
d)   Lack of proper Certificates



59
(a) may be solved by the CITP Authorities getting involved
in finding jobs for those who pass out;
(b), (c) and (d) reflect on the standard of training imparted
anid is worth examining in detail.
If proper standards are laid down in consultation with the
employment agencies and enforced, (b) and (c) should not arise,
and if Trade Tests are conducted immediately on termination
of training without levying a fee of Rs.50/- (as now prevailing),
there will be an incentive for all trainees who complete their
training to appear for the test. The fee of Rs.50/- may be
levied from those who pass the Trade Test, only for the purpose
of issuing the Certificates referred to at (d).
According to the Survey, it appears that about 98% of the trainees
in all trades, other than the Operators, were males, and that
there were only 17 female trainees - 16 Supervisors and one Mason.
This indicates that there is no attraction for this sort of job
for women, probably due to the arduous nature of the field-work
involved, including working at heights.
The CITP should make arrangements for all the trainees to be
visited by Training Officers regularly, at least oncea month,
as the Report points out that at least 16% of the trainees had
not been visited at all during the period of their On-Site
Training,
4.40   Conclusions
The affiliation rate has recorded a marked increase in 1985 com-
pared with 1983 and 1984. This is very encouraging and should
be improved upon by CITP Authorities who should get directly
involved in the employment of their passed-out trainees.
High affiliation rates of trainees from Institutions in Badulla,
Kegalle, Beliatta, Galle and Kuliyapitiya, indicated that there
are adequateemployment opportunities in those areas.  However,
the development of other areas should be closely monitored when
recruiting trainees so that there is no over-production which
could lead to unemployment and discontent. In this regard,
great care has to be taken when recruiting trainees to the



bO
Junior Technical Institute at Homagama and Mattakkuliya and
the Technical College at Maradana, as these Institutions have
almost a&ways recorded much lower affiliation rates than others.
Further, measures should be introduced to ensure that trainees
give correct addresses and that this information is updated
regularly. This would enable trainees to be located for purposes
of Tracer Surveys and monitoring and evaluation. This would also
be important where the Apprenticeship Agreement has been signed
by Sureties, and where penalties have been laid down for breach
of contract.
IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY
4.41   Introduction
This Impact Assessment Study has been conducted by the Department
of Census & Statistics (DCS) at the request of the World Bank
Mission, which visited Sri Lanka in February 1987, and the ICTAD.
Earlier, the CITP had carried out a Pilot Study in the Colombo
District with a limited coverage. The DCS Study too has its limit-
ations due to want of a complete and current sampling-frame.
The Study has been extended to cover 7 Districts, including the
Colombo District, with a view to incorporating both Urban and
rural districts. The Draft Report has been issued in July 1987.
4.42   Objectives of the Survey
i)    To establish the supply and demand position and
operating wages for construction industry skills
ii)    To compare CITP Trainees with those trained on
other Programmes regarding attitude to work,
quality of work, safe working ptactices, use of
tools and equipment, etc.
iii)    To assess the distribution of craftsmen holding
National Trade Test Certificates Grade III, work-
ing in organizations
iv)    To obtain information for reviewing and evaluat-
ing the CITP Training Programme



61
4.4;3   Sampling Frame
A list of both Public and Private Organizations, where CITP
craftsmen were employed, was prepared by the Field Staff of
the Buildings Department. Information on the deployment of
Construction Supervisors and Equipment Operators and Mechan-
ics was available with ICTAD. This data gave the basic inform-
ation for the sampling-frame, viz. number of CITP trainee-
workers and their trades in each of the Organizations,
4.44   Sample Selection, Field Organization, Data Processing, etc.
The following 7 Districts had been selected, viz. Colombo,
Kandy, Galle, Hambantota, Kurunegala, Badulla and Ratnapura,
covering both the urban and rural sectors. The sample for
each District was allocated in proportion to the number of
units of population in each District, with a minimum sample-
size of 30 to each District. The total number of population
nits for the 7 Districts amounted to 894 and a sample of 343
;  =1it-vw tx-i d-airvn. Of thn.e 343 sampled organizations and
ynrsc,as, it. had '.en po.sibln tc' Iocnts only 251 units. It
had not been possible to trace the balance.
Employment Data had been collected as at lot May 198?, whilst
the month of March 1987 was considered as the Reference Month
regarding the number of working days. The Data Processing
work had been carried out manually.
4.4 5   Manpower Supply Constraints
Shortages of manpower, which led to difficulties in organiza-
tions completing or undertaking job-assignments, were reported
from all the sampled Districts in respect of different trades.
The percentage of organizations reporting shortages varied from
17% for Kandy and Kurunegala to 39% for fambantota, with an
overall average for the total sample of 251 units, of 26%.
It was also revealed that a significant number of Firms had
reported vacancies in masonry, carpentry, electrical wiring,
steel-fixing and plumbing as a result of a shortage of skills
in these categories during the period 1983 and after.



62
1/3rd of the Firms had reported difficulties in recruiting
adequately skilled workers in Hambantota, and 1/4th of all
Firms in Ratnapura had reported the same issue. The quality
of output in these organizations would thereby have been ad-
versely affected.
4.4.6  Skilled Labour Component of Project-Costs
The skilled labour-component of Project Costs has varied from
District to District, but the average for all the sampled
Districts can be taken as 21 to 39%.
4.4 7 Supervisors' Assessment of Quality of Output of CITP Trainees
The following characteristics were chosen for this purpose:.-
Productivity
Attitude to Work
Quality of Work
Planning Work Area
Safer Working Practices
Use of Tools and Equipment
Raw Material Usage
Awareness of Developments in the Trade
These characteristics of CITP Trainees were evaluated against
'other worker' groups as 'better than average', 'average' and
'below average'.
In 4 of the 7 Districts, the CITP Trainees were found to be more
productive, whilst in the other 3 the Supervisors held an opp-
osite view.
In all the sampled Districts, the CITP-trained craftsmen have
been rated better than other workers in their attitude towards
work by the Supervisors who were questioned.
The sampled Supervisors have classified the CITP-trained as
giving a slightly better output-quality than other workers.
The same was true about planning their work-areas also.



63
The Supervisors have assessed that the CITP-trained are signi-
ficantly better in adopting safer working practices than others.
Regarding the use of Tools and Equipment, the evaluation has been
broadly similar to the preceding characteristic.
About Raw Material Usage, the CITP-trained have been assessed
better than the average workers, though there is a wider inter-
district variation in the evaluation.
The CITP-trained are better than others in their Awareness of
Developments in the Trade, according to the sampled Supervisors.
Here too, the inter-district variations in assessments are quite
large.
Thus, according to the overall assessment of sampled Supervisors,
the CITP-trained have been rated higher than the products of
other Training Programmes. It can therefore be established that,
in general, the CITP-trained craftsmen possess better and more
useful attributes and characteristics than those trained in other
ways.
The data recorded has also revealed that the CITP-trained employees
have been rated by their Supervisors as being more interested in
their trade and in undertaking innovation work and learning new
skills, compared to other workers.
It has also come to light from the Impact Assessment Study that
60% of the CITP-trained craftsmen were in receipt of wages equi-
valent to that of other workers and 6% of them were receiving
higher wages. In Colombo, 2/3rd of the Firms had paid the CITP-
trained wages equivalent to that of other workers, whilst 1/3rd
had paid lower wages. In Kandy, Galle, Hambantota and Ratnapura
more than 2/Sths of all employers had paid the CITP-trained
wages lower than that paid to other workers. It is therefore
evident that quite a significant number of CITP workers have
received wages lower than that of other workers. This may be
due to lack of adequate experience of CITP-trained in their
trades. Or, it may be that small contractors utilize their
services as unskilled workers on low wages and allow them the
opportunity to pick up the skills in the trade.



64
The Survey also elicited information about Deficiencies apparent
in CITP Trainees. Their worst characteristic was found to be
their indifference to work and not being punctual. Insufficient
practical traininq and lack of technical knowledqae eomhined
with inexperience in the use of equipment, constituted signifi-
cant weaknesses reported on by sampled Supervisors.
The Site Supervisors were also asked to state the criteria that
should be adopted in the selection of CITP Trainees. The follow-
ing criteria were highlighted by them:-
i)   Level of Education  -  at least Grade 8,:.and prefui
erence to be given for know-
ledge of arithmetic and draw-
ing.
ii)   Health              -  higher weightage to be given
for physical fitness
iii)   Experience          -  some pre-knowledge of the par-
ticular trade applied.for to be
given preference
iv)   Job Interest        -  young persons who are active and
are keenly interested to learn
the trade to be selected
v)   Aptitude            -  interest and ability to be deter-
mined by both practical and
written tests
Information was collected on the extent and degree to which
craftsmen in the sampled Firms had been trade-tested. The N.A.B.
had introduced the National Trade Test Certificate in 1983.
Prior to that, and till the National Trade Test is made mandatory,
the Certificates issued by Technical Training Institutes after
the completion of a Vocational Training Programme, was accepted
as evidence of satisfactory completion of training in the particular
trade. We are aware that the NAB levied a fee of As.50/- for
trade-testing. This might have been a disincentive for the trained



65
craftsman to appear for the test, particularly so if the Insti-
tute Certificate was equally good for the purpose of employment.
Though the DCS Survey indicates that more workers are appearing
for the Trade Test now, it may be better for the sake of enforc-
ixit standards, to lay down the N.A.B. Certificate as the only
recognised Certificate for employment and to accelerate the work-
ing of the administrative machinery within the N.A.B. to expedite
the conduct of these Trade Tests.
It was found that the percentage of employers processing Certi-
ficates of Competency - the Naticqal Trade Test Certificate,
Grade III - was low for all the trades covered. Therefore, its
importance for obtaining employment has to be regularised by
statute, if standards are to be maintained.
The Survey has revealed that the practice of maintaining records
relating to the skil's and competency level of skilled workers
has  not been well established in this country, and that trade-
testing was not regarded as an essential part of the recruitment-
procedure for local jobs, unlike in the case of foreign jobs.
It has transpired from the Study that of the candidates tested
by the N.A.B., 58% were CITP-trained workers and from those who
had passed the Tests, 63% were again CITP-trained craftsmen.
71% of the CITP-trained who appeared for the Tests in 1984 were
found to be successful, whereas only 42% of the non-CITP-trained
who presented themselves for the Tests were able to pass. The
corresponding pass rates for 1985 were 48% and 39% respectively,
whilst for 1986 they were 50% for CITP candidates and 42% for
non-CITP workers. The percentage of passes for Carpentry and
Electrical Wiring has been lower than that for Masonry in both
groups. The percentage of passes for Equipment Mechanics has been
significantly high, with the numbers appearing for the Trade Test
being relatively small compared with those for Carpentry, Masonry
and Electrical Wiring.



00
CHAPTER V
BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
The Project Objectives were clearly defined with appropriate
emphasis on the quality and the training output targets to
be achieved.
Throughout the implementation period, communication between
the Project Management and the Association has been cordial..
There were 13 Review Missions undertaken to monitor the
Project implementation process with an average interval
of 6 months.  The negotiations with the Revfew Missiors were
receptive and constructive. The outcome of the negotiations
resulted in the following:-
- Change in the percentage reimbursement of Training
Material Expenditure from 50% to 80% from November
1983.
- Fellowship Programme to train CITP Staff.
- Instructor Training Programme.
- System for engagement of Local Consultants.
-   Training Programme for Highways Sector.
- Continuation of the Project - ICTAD.
The Project was able to achieve 66% of the original Estimated
Trainee Output due to the 2-year extended period granted by
the Assoc'ation.
The original Credit Facility of SDR 10.9 million was made avail
able by the Association in spite of the 44% fall in the rupee
exchange rate against the US dollar during the period 1981 to
1986.
The Association has allowed the category-wise limits set out in
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement of 1981 to be
exceeded as long as the disbursements were within the credit-
limit of SDR 10.9 million.



CHAPTER V1
LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
a)          GENERAL
6.01   Planning & Budgetary Control
* The cyclicality of the Construction Industry is an universal
phenomenon found both in the developed as well as the develop-
ing world. The operation of this phenomenon has adversely
affected the long-term growth and development of the Construc-
tion Industry in Sri Lanka. Planning in the Construction
Sector should therefore provide for this inherent volatility
and include built-in mechanisms for a continuous assessment
of training needs. In addition to an overall Itidicative Plan,
an Annual Budget should be prepared based on actual needs
issessments for the year. In this way, greater flexibility as
well as tichtAr btiqetary planning and control could be achieved.
o The Project, which was originally planned for 3 years, was
later extended to cover a period of 5* years.  The first year
was found to be a preparatory period and training activities
could not be effectively implemented without the necessary
resources to provide the training assignment. In future projects
of this nature, planning should take cognizance of the need to
provide for preliminary activities.
6.02   Co-ordination of Work
*  The Inter-Ministerial Co-ordination through the Secretaries'
Committee proved invaluable in co-ordinating and steering the
project to its successful completion.
This type of arrangement could be recommended for future projects
where several agencies are required to contribute towards the
successful implementation of the Project.
6.03 Preparation of Documents & Development of the Status of Contractors
*  The work of the National Steering Committee and its specialist
Sub-Committees, in preparing valuable documents for use in the



68
Construction Industry and in establishing the Construction
Contractors' Association as a recognised body of Contractors
in the interests of the Construction Industry of the country,
is laudable.
Every effort sliould now be made to implement the Recommenda-
tions of these documents in both the Public and Private Sectors
for maintaining uniformity of standards. More incentives should
be given to local contractors for upgrading their knowledge of
financial control and management, and construction technology
in order to enab&e them to execute their work efficiently.
6.04     Quality of CITP Trainees
*  In general, the quality of the CITP-trained worker has been
found to be better than those trained by other agencies, accord-
ing to the Impact Assessment Study carried out in 1987.
The curricula and training standards should be constantly re-
viewed and developed to maintain standards of achievement accept-
able to the Construction Industry.
b)           PHYSICAL
6.05     Project Formulation
*  The assessment of industrial needs periodically throughout the
duration of the Project, proved very useful in controlling the
output to the required levels.
Such Studies should be carried out on futupe projects, both
initially as well as throughout their duration, so that the
trained personnel could be absorbed by the industry. This
would prove useful to the Industry.
*  The Needs Assessment Study of December 1985 has pointed out the
need for re-training of manpower already at work and t.ze numbers
to be re-trained per year.
Re-training and Pefresher Courses should be introduced And



69
properly organised for execution without prejudice to the
training of newcomers.
*  Trade Testing had not been carried out at the end of each modu-
lar Training Course
Arrangements should be made to trade-test all workers who com-
plete their tra'ning at the end of their training period.
This should be at national level, and the test may even replace
the final assessment carried out at the different Training
Centres at present. The administrative machinery of the N,A.B.
may have to be suitably expanded to meet such requirements.
* Only 326 Females had been trained to completion by the Project
against a total overall output of 37,742,
It may be that females do not wtsh to apply for jobs of this
type in view of the arduous nature of the field work involved.
Hemever, th'sr wltb .the necessary personality, physical fitness
and aptitude foz. the work ahould be given every encouragement
if they do apply, and be absorbed for training without any sex
discrimination.
* The Tracer Studies have revealed that there is no uniform wage
pattern prevailing in the different trades,
While conceding the principle that "supply and demand" should
determine wage rates in the industryt a statutory minimum wage
rate should be fixed by the State.
6.06    Project Implementation
* The Impact Assessment Study has highlighted the need to consider
certain criteria such as level of Education, Bealth, Experience,
Job Interest and Aptitude in the selection of CITP Trainees.
These criteria are worthy of consideration and adoption at least
in a modified way for certain categories of workers.
- Tracer Studies have revealed that quite a significant number of
trainees are not traceable from the different samples analysed



70
(in the 3 Tracer Surveys) due to their leaving the Course
without any intimation or giving incorrect addresses.
This situation could be avoided by calling for proper Identi-
fication and references from the applicants for training.
*   The Impact Assessment Study has revealed that there axe
significant shortages of manpower in some of the Districts.
is
Future recruitnert of trainees should be made on a more equit-
able distribution of manpower amongst the 24 Districts in
conformity with the development work taking place in the
different areas.
6.07      Supervision
a   According tc the Needs Assessment Study of 1985, there appears
to have been an over-production of Works Supervisors, result-
ing in a suspension of training assigned for Supervisors
during 1986.
The training of Works Supervisors, as much as other trades,
should be so organised as to result in an uniform output over
the entire pro4ect period (to ntatch the needs of the Construc-
tion Industry).
4   The short-term Management Courses have proved useful to Upper
Level and Middle Level Managers.
These Courses should be intensified with a view to training
larger numbers in the interests of work-efficiency.
6.08      Technical Assistance
O   It is understLod that individual Foreign Consultants,appointed
by the Lead Consultants, had been deployed on the Project
without prior consultation with the CITP Authorities regarding
their selection.
Future Agreements should cater for greater flexibility in this
regard by making provision for the several nominations received
for the expatriate positions to be referred to the local autho-



71
rities for their views and reaommendatlons before the filz.
selection is made.
Further, Local Consultants should be employed, whenver suit-
able Personnel are available, in preference to Fbreign Con-
sultants, for greater cost-effectiveness. For the purpose
of this Project, 25% of the Budget was allocated for Techni-
cal Assistance. This figure could have been significantly
reduced if Local Consultaits had been emploj-d whejever
possible.



CHAR-3



_ 75 _                             CHART I
PERCENTAGE CHANGES  IN  GNP  AND  CONSTRUC'rS(N   SECTOR  OUTPUT
CHANGt
*THt YEARS 1974-1911 ARE OASED
ON CONSTAtr 19T0 FACTOR COST PRICE
-    -        -    -       THE __ARS 1992 ONWARDS ARE SAUI
0ON CONSTANT 1962 FACTOR COST
* PRICES-
_ONS"U a             k                      A SOURCE -CENTRAL SAHE
9                    9 ?    I    _ COttSTRUC 0f  \ _ -
. 'vrz  fivF S3 X Sae 
.1.E-t \   II :: l. 



- 76 -                            CLART 2
ALL ISLAND AVERAGE DAILY WAGE RATES IN
Rs.C   ROUSING  CONSTRUCTION
70-                                               1            -
60                               @ /           -jtIAASTER C PENTER
40           1}l                         §              --]            |
.'      |   I         I                  -     ,-- __
i0  Po UNSKILLED HELPER
20-           -_                   
|0-~~~~~ .    I                                
10.
O 0                                                                    -YEAI
SGi       19 80    1981      1982      1983      1984     t985
SOURCE - CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA



CHART 3
-77 -
*WHOLESALE PRICE INDE-X
1q74 -100
MONTHLY
POINTS IN INOEX                           POINTS IN INOEX
360                                              .   360
340                                                   340
320                                                  -320
INTERMEDIATE - /-
300                        GOODS                      30O
28Q                                                   280
260                                                   260
240                                                   240
INV.ESThENT    -d                   *   220
* 220    *  GOODS              WH~OLESALE
200                                                   200
180  _1.80
160                                                  .1icGsu^ J60
160                 -a-- ~~~~CONSUMER16
140                      ~~~~~~~~GOODS
1$0 -. ww                                             40
120                                                   120
100                                                   100
80   .,            I     I }'I        I      T. osim-  80
1976  1977   1978  i979  1980  1981   1982
C.nulI hem o * C.,)..



INTER  MINISTERIAL  CO-ORDINATION
CABINET
OF MINISTERS
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTo
HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
_SECRETAR IES
MI Yr_GEH.O TTEE                            MINISTRY or YOUTH AFFAIRS
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERINM4ENT.                   _____ADEPOMN
HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION                                                                         AND EMPLOYMEN
I _________L__________________I___                                                                MINISTRY   OF   LABOuR
STEERING COMMITTEES
C   I  T   p__                       FMINISTRY OF PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EOUCATION
MINISTRY OF LANDS
AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
MINISTRY OF MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENT
ADVISORY COM"I4TEES
WORKING  GROUPS         ]                  -----|RAINING INSTtTUTIONS |         |ON-SITE TRAINING I
T R A I N E E S               T R A I N E F.S 



TABLES
- 79 -



TABLE I
- 81 -
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN GNP* & CONSTRUCTION SECTOR#
Year               GNP (l)         Construction Sector
1974                 3.2                  7.06
1975                 2.6                - 8.8
1976                 2.8                  5.5
1977                 4.4                -96
1978                 8,75                28.2
1979                 6.3                 209
1980                 5.5                 11.0
1981                 4.1                - 3.0
1982                 4.9                - 2.0
1983                 4.1                  1.0
1984                 5.1                -0.1
1985                 5.3                  0.5
1986                 4.5                  1.5
* The years 1974-1981 Are basqd on constant 1970 Factor Cost prices,
The years 1982 onwards are based on constant 1982 Factor Cost prices.
# Source: Central Bank,



TABLE 2
- 82 -
ALL-ISLAhND AVERAGE DAILY WAGE RATES IN HOUSING CONSTRUCTION*
(excluding wages in large-scale construction activities)
Category
Master Carpenter      Master Mason    Unskilled Helper
.  Ye.ar   \                    (Rs.)              (Rs.)      (Masonry)       (RS.)
1979                27.51                27.08            14.21
1980                36.95                35.85            18.80
1981                46.85                45.90            23.82
1982                53.81               52.42             2S.34
1983                59.88                58.36            30.15
1984                65.20                63.50            33.11
1985                70.35                68.41            35.39
* Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka.



TABLE 3
- 83 -
COMPOSITION OF SKILLED MIGRANT WORKERS
(TO THE MIDDLE EAST - L979*)
OCCUPATION                      PERCENTAGE
Carpenters                                       14.4
Masons                                            8 5
Welders                                           3.5
Painters                                          2.4
Plumbers, Steel Fixers, Barbenders, etc.          5.2
Mechanics                                        10.0
Electricians                                      6.5
Fitters                                           2.3
Drivers                                          15.9
Heavy Vehicle Operators                           3.5
Plant Operators                                   4.1
Cooks and Chefs                                   5.5
Hotel Stewards, Room Boys, etc.                   5.9
Tailors, Seamstresses                             1.9
Others                                           10.4
100.0
* Source: Korale & Karunawathie (1981) -
From "Impact of Out & Return Migration on Domestic
Employment in Sri Lanka: A Preliminary Analysis" -
The Asian Employment Programme (ILO/ARTEP) 1985.



SRI LANKA CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
F  I  X  E  D          A  S  S  E  T  S   (Rs.'000)                                   U S  $ MILLIONS
ACTUAL EXPENDI1URE
CATE5ORY                       DESCRIPTION                  NO.              COST      LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL      iAX:AL     FOREIGN
1.  LAND                                                                                5,777       5,777        -         0.02      0.02          -
2. CIVIL CONSTRUCTION         Head Office a Technical Institutes                       13,732      13,732         -        0.53      0.53
3. MACE1NERY b EQUIPMENT      Self-Propelled Scrapers                2        7587                    459     7128
Konatsu Motor Graders                  3       3750                    393      3357
Komatsu Dozer                          1 Unit  3592                    166      3416
Komatsu Dozer                          1        915                      -       915
Mobile Cranes                                  2603                    b1i    1912
Excavator Crane                        1       3179                     56      3123                                      1
xobelco Front End Loaders              3       2589                     24      2565                                       s
Intergral Wheel Loader                 1        575                    170       405
Hydraulic Excavators                   2       2561                    300      2261
Mitsubishi Hydraulic Excavator         1        996                     996        -
Hitachi 10 BV Excavator                1       1269                     65      1204
Hitachi Hydraullc Excavator                     402                      -       402
D-65 Tractor Angle Pan-Tilt Dozers    2         513                    103       410
Bulidozer                              1       1481                     11      1478
Internal Wheel Loader Backhoe          1        607                     82       525
Scraper Backhoes                       2        950                      7       943                                      c
JCB Loader Backhoe                     1       1062                     60      1002                                     oI
Lubrication Unit                       1        379                     24       355
Vibration Engine with Pokers           6        802                    802         -
Nissan Diesel Tractor                  1       2152                    721      1431
Contd.



F   r   x   E   D            A   S    S  E   T  S   (Rs.I000)                    U S    S  MrLLIONS
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
CATEGORY                 DESCRIPTION                      NO.              COST        LOCRL   POREIGN     TOTAL    LOCAL    FORETG
John Dere Tractors                   3         2923                   364    2559
D-65 Tractors                        2         3526                   612    2924
MP Agricultural Tractors             3          567                   110      457
Isuzu Commercial Trucks              2         1335                    34    1301
Nissan Truck                         1          676                   676        -
Mobile Workshop Truck                          1198                   417      771
Isuzu Dump Trucks                    3         1345          _        521     824
Isuzu Cargo Truck                    1         656                     21     635                                      1
Dumpers                              4          907                   907        -                                     U'
High Discharge Dumpers               2          379                    28     351
All-Diver Dumpers                    2          395                    15      380
Tractor with Tipper                  1         1250                   180    1070
S-drum Vibratory Roller              1         1677                   335    1342
Vibratory Roller                     1          618                    21      597
Crawler Drill Rig                    1         2078                   416    1662
Komatsu Crawler Tractor              1        2189                    439    1751
Tractor with Towing Wrench           1         1270                   130    1140
Komatsu Compressors                  2          556                   556        -
Others                                         8523                  2070    6453
69,264                            2.74     0.52     2.22
Contd.



F   I    X    E   D            A   S    S   h   T    S   (Rs. ' nO)             u s   s   MILLIONS
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
CATEGORY               DESCRIPTION                      NO.            COST     LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL   FOREIGN
4. MOTOR VEHICLES            Mitsubishi L 300 Vans                2        259                258         -
Lancer Cars                         7        835                 e3s        -
Ford Lacer Cars                     2        196                 19 6        -
Renault Car                         1        292                 292         -
Mitsubishi Jeeps                    2        356                 356         -
Nissan Double Cab                   1        260                 260         -
Datsun Double Cabs                  2        300                 300        -
Pajero Jeep                         1        370                 370        -
1986 Additions
Toyota 8iace Van                    1        472                 472                                                  00
Mitsubishi to 300 Van               1        296                 296
Toyota 15-seater                    1        610                 610        -
Mitsubishi Pajero                   2       1016               1,016
Nissan Double Cab                   1        445                 445
S,706                       0.23    0.23
5. FURNITURE, FIXTURES
a OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                             4,187    4.187              0.17    0.17       -
6.  TOOLS. IDPLEMENTS S
INSTRUMENTS                                                                    7,076    7,076         -    0.31    0.31        -
NOTES                                                                       105,742   48,743   56,999    4.00    1.78    2.22
-NOTES=0=                                                                              ====w   00555      =3=3    S050    =Wfl
(1) ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
SOURCE - UPTO 1985 - from audited accounts
1986      - per Draft Accounts



SRI LANKA CONSTRUCUIOW INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
TECSNICAL ASSISTANCE
DESIGNATION                         PERIOD                          MAN MONTO S $OTAL PAYMET - Stq E '000
1. BRITISH COUNCIL CONSLTAN$S                                                                                                                         1517
Nr John Ellett                        Senior Training Advisor                        1. ;.81 - 30. 6.82                      12
Mr L.H. Rothwell                      Construction Industry Specialist               1. 7.81 -  5. 4.82                      10
Mr D. nHamond                         Senior Craft Training Advisor                  1. 7.81 - 31.12.85                      54
Mr J. Yurnival                        Senior Mechanical Equipment Operator
Training Specialist              1. 8.81 - 31.12.85                      53
Mr A. Poll                            Equipment machinery Training Specialist       10. 8.81 -  3. 4.83                      20
Mr S. Chamberlain                     Supervisor Management Training Specialist   15. 8.61 - 15.12.84                        40
Mr R. Macadan                         Electrical Training Specialist                29. 8.81 - 15.12.83                      28
Hr P. Fleming                         Masonry Training Specialist                   29. 8.81 - 31.12.8S                      52
Mr R Devonshire                       Carpentry Training Specialist                 29. 8.81 - 30.12.84                      40
Mr K. Owen                            Apprenticeship Advisor                        27. 9.81 - 31.12.84                      39
Mr J Bell                             Plant Operator Training Specialist            10.10.81 - 15. 6.84                      32
Mr P. Harrowing                       Mechanical Equipment Training Specialist    12.10.81 - 30. 6.84                        33
Mr H. Binny                           Construction Industry Consultant               2.10.82 - 22.12.82 )                     5
24. 9.83 - 12.11.83 )
Mr S. Bomer                           Mechanical Training Advisor                    7.11.83 - 31.12.83                       2
Hr A.B. Robinson                      Crane Operator Training Advisor                5.12.83 - 30. 6.84                       7
Mr M. Cooper                          Management Training Advisor                   31. 3.84 - 31.12.84                       9
2. P0STER WHEELER ENERGY LTD - ENGLAND                                                                                                                  73
Mr D. Hammond                         Senior Craft Training Advisor                  1. 1.86 - 31.12.86                      12



DESIGNATION                                      PERIOD)                  MWI .43IES  TOTAL PAYMEWT - Sto f I ZCC
j. w.s. ATKIN INTfRNATIONAL - EOGLAND
Mr a White                           Senior Contract Advisor                     (Contract 1:  Oct 1984-nct 1985)    12 .
Kr D. Whitwell                       Training Specialist                                                                 3)           160
Mr C. Offen                          Maintenance Specialist                                                              6)
Mr C. Camp                           Technician                                                                          2
Mr P Napier                          Financial Advisor                           (Contract 2:  Feb 1985-Feb 1986)    12
Mr A Spiers                          Site Engineer                                                                      13            287
Mr D.S. James                        Project Manager                             (Contract 3:  may 1985-Kay 1986         8
Mr R.C. Hale                         Senior Traffic Engineer                                                             9
Mr P.J. Tindall                      Senior Highways Engineer                                                            9)           497
Mr J.L. Gibbon                                -do-                                                                       5
Mr A.N. Bowerman                     Senior Technician                                                                   5)
MWs R.D. Jarvis a D. Cloves          Specialist Support                                                                 1I
Mr J. White                          Senior Manpower Training Advisor            (Contract 4:  Aug 1985-Feb 1986)        6             68           1002
538                         2592
*.



"s ii r w  t.-e.wuso V.# .*"&  t*... *           Ie teq.   Se  gg tW.IG"  ".I lives .. go .*&
*t.o'si.'t' g0l- 111**061 *9t1 i'C I
"t r40505 ts|*5 ICC   l*   l *'I  l    SoIW(s *toti'(    *      9-           d .g 19014s. .  5*  $asgl *9  p.tv
I',.ts  'Pe 1;8t . 55 ***Ir;  'tO' *tO  0"  COl' rI   ltO  *It t            5
tg.  eg~eo*wo  'Iago.5e"-g1Is' .4"       I ~*   tj*g' *so,usge P   404%.e of Sol e  .l5   tel
'"n'ta',   me'eIss'..e'st          ', so ,'. _ weXttt ' S     a lree * I  ages    t .i ;sst-r'
(I'll     1611      1911  "               ogle     it-r   * *16-3-    * *.f. *ile       tell..e *5 Iwt'      "It                     l . . .e s 
-"" -" -*1**^ -it -A - I  r     Post
tellt   ggt       19e1      n-tt        bg'b    te-e   *  Ir-t      III         et-t      n-e       190         CS*(            nn       to-   et u.          e*o                  eet_Itwo
Ire    "e        toe t       o.-        cot0    tt-e       "ts       e-t                  St's get-             qge            oc*o      tos     t           sel.-.rc          £s,.O.eteot 506
ti'     tole     1re        i-          w       oee        -ell     N's         ;         s         g           oO-                      ego    so'.         le':              J1m5.g"   9)440
**sX    go'.      i-te       ge         n.e      U's       at'.    ig.@         t         felt      are         gee             gus tior         ore       * egg              -h   .tstt,s.
lol     fi-le       1         t-        r-¢     t Isle-o6410 fl      it's       114       tt-       11-         :11-e          Itt       1t-    ttspmm *      e-e                             e
tU-!    sell     u-        0n-          "It    t,e         nII     oit'         n-o        n.e   ne til         fel            tt-       n'o e    sel ns- e-                           S I 6  "9*3
ise n-o       et-e          till e        '-   it'se       el-e     tIe-        Gei       te-e      tl e        eus             ogl      so's    "I-          "Is t-es.4. g q. Al IStO&
at                   tt-~~~~~~sr  "le-  it's      990         "If   tz tile      141      cie         awlld     file      W-l         W-e            "le-z     it'     94,4        "et              lo"11       
w t-    et's     "l         tile       111    te-e         -tl      ettg         -e       *ee Is**ef1          n-e4            0,0       to's      -4        "le0            I#*
til     Mle        -t        ii'0 n       e      g ree     Ise      u-e         og.       tole      fil         tole           ele       ste e       ,       tole           A5f
in;    is'.       ec        ire    - s             o       sts      o e         oe'o      -,.       w-ee       tO'l             sell  - ee   tas'            gle           - H      -          0
t*     N'-    wsri         #@          ti      ti@       -@'       it-1        sri       te-S      * I .i     SI'             CS'       at      SI'        is'5                     t| *3      *1)
eawtlegor %el$wq*mg   *at
ogC    n-e       un         een         U-  t ns           *t-l     ,'g        t*g'       n-os      *I-tiI                     ogl       Col I  tt-e    t                tCelSt t*a SoS lose&
etu   vs'          -        (C's        n-t    Colo        *roe       l         Col-       tole                  i loe         toe       tole      pe tne                     0n0
*i'     grte        *       l ol        n-ti   el-o                 GO e           s      t'         * e4       it'se          n1@       tore    n-          si'e             *$$
til    It's        s- oel               ts       cs 1       *       110        St's e     let                 44o'             or.      tole       *         so's H-        ggee   seg&gefoo
itS r    S6 U-o   U          O*0       "I't    nIe        e         en         el         teo       W$         no.,           tole      tole    file           e                    to *t0  p  wee
44's  X                     ss          fil    allw*                                                                                                                      **"9115 100    *t@*lt3O   f*iel    ' glel s
wo    to's        el*'      ass         mu       i      . 50't      silo        Osl        s.a      oe           -0S            silo     i.    ore           ir-e       seoW..O'wls  t 4.igeseg
-s*i    ogle                ftll     tl                    WI        "'I        cl        oi*sloeo4 ns          i        I      we       "le    it's         fie
,       Sto      et.        ,                                                                                                  to's s"les.  to's  o'.  .,   ti-  O  -e  1t's  ol-te        logoI"
os's    sg'       wi o  i    n           e'       0.        0* (el.'                        5'        re        w               st0    toe    silo           010                    ItteisO   ee
I'      Ie       s'.        Are           .       _           .       .           .         .        .           .'.                        s    01o  0  tO '
1.0       .          .   , to                                                                           ;;. is'.                         a       eie         1S'S          Cli;    s,1*   OStge?
colt    g(e       jg'g      ii..   .                        *         *                              *           .             oe'g      ag's    no          ore's                  for *oi'o   it
f o li_tl-  @ j;-
;'".;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..go .;i
5C545         t.51T~~~~~~~~~~~~"  ~      ~         P   *eC    - T
CwItiOt . ~~~~~         igeggostt                    * P:  .raTiVIlOs    mtgf-s,C5



SRI LANKA CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
TOTAL  PROJECT  COSTS  BY  CATEGORY   (USS MILLIONS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                    ACTUAL EXPENDITURE                          D I F F E R E N C E
LCCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL        LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL        IOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL          2
I    Fixed Assets                         0.55        2.91         3.46         1.78         2.22        4.00        (1.23)        0.69        (0.54)      (16)
(From Table 4)
II   Training Materials                   5.51        3.29         8.80         4.54        0.41         4.95         0.97         2.88        3.85         44
(From Table 8.1)                                                                                                                                                 °
III  Technical Assistance and           I
Training Costs                    1
(From Table 8.2)
8.16        4.61        12.77         2.85        4.81         7            3.37        (0.40)       2.97         23
IV   Administration and General         I                                                                     )
Overheads excluding depreciation I                                         1.94        0.20         2.14
(From Table 8.3)
14.22       10.81        25.03        11.11        7.64        18.75         3.11         3.17        6.28         25
NOTES  :  (1)  APPRAISAL ESMATES
SOURCE - Sri Lanka Staff Apprasal Report of March 3, 1981 (Table 12)
(2)  EXICHANGE RATES US$                                                                                                                                 -_
SOURCE  - Central Bank of Sri Lanka
1981 - 19.50,  1982 - 20.86.  1983 - 23.61,  1984 - 25.44,  1985 - 27.16,  1986 - 28.02



SRI IANKA CONSTRU`TION INDUSTRY TRAINING PRO.WIET
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY (Rs'MILLIONS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                  ACTUAL EXPENDITURE                         D I F F E R E N C E
LOCAL      FOREIGN     TOTAL         LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL        LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL         2
I    Fixed Assets                       2.3        43.6         45.9        48.7         57.0       105.7        (46.4)      (13.4)       (59.8)
(From T7bie  )
II   Training Materials            -   50.0         33.1        83.1       114.8         11.4       126.2        (64.8)       21.7        (43.1)
(From Table 8.1)
III Technical Assistance and          I
Training Costs                   1                                     72.1        116.5       188.6
(From *Table 8.2)                1
67.7        59.2       126.9                                             (54.9)      (61.9)      (116.8)
IV   Administration and General
Overheads excluding depreciation ]                                     50.5          4.6        55.1
(From Table 8.3)                 1
Total quantity contingency        12.1        11.:         23.4                                              12.1        11.3         23.4
Total price contingency           76.3        47.3        123.6                                              76.3        47.3        123.6
Taxes and duties                  47.5          -          47.5                                              47.5          -         47.5
255.9       194.5       450.4        286.1       189.5       475.6        (30.2)         5.0       (25.2)         6
NOTES : (I) APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
SOURCE - Sri Lanka Staff Appraisal Report of March 3. 1981, Cost Estimates page 18.
co



SRI LANKA CONSTUCTON  INWDUSTRY TRAIN4.l ; Pi.JFCr
TRAINING  MATERIALc  .Rs'OO)                                          USS MILLIONS
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      TOTAL      LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOrAL      LOCAL    FOREIGN
(A) ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
1.   Fuel and Lubricants for            6        345     1,058     3,032      2,631     2,421     9. 93      9,493        -          0.36       0.36       -
Operator/Mechanic   Training
2.   Training materials consumed      797    13,184    11,995    19,442    19.286    18,689    83,393    83.393           -           3.32      3.32       -
3.   Plant hire for Operator/          26     3.145      1,395       708        251       115     5,640      5,640        -           0.25      0.25       -
Mechanic.. Training
4.   Spares for Operatorl             157        220       613     4,101      3.576    19.08A    27,.15    16.285    11.430           1.02      0.61      0.41
Mechanic   Training
986    16,894    15,061    27.283    25.744    40.273   126.241.  114.811    1314iO            4.95      4.54      0.41
NOtE:   (1)  ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
SiURCE - 1981 to 1985 from audited accounts
1986 per draft accounts
.4



SRI UANKA CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE  AND  TRAINING  COSTS  (Rs 000)                               USS  MILLIONS
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985       1986      TO$AL      LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN
(A) ACTUAL EPMENDITURE
1.    Fees to Consultants             11.909    19,570    16,547    17.146    38.509    10,681   114.362           -     114,362         4.72       -         4.72
2.    Fees to teaching/support           260     4,619      7,013     4,645      5,510      7.070    29,117    29,117       -            1.17       1.17       -
staff
3.    Allowances to Trainees             159     2,176      4.148     3.585      2,844     3,487    16,399    16,399        -            0.66       0.66       -
at Institutions
4.    Allowances to Trainees             -         490      2,460     2.039      3,412      1,713    10,114    10.114       -            0.39       0.39       -
on site
5.    Travelling expenses - local         30       314        748     1,065      1.140        883     4,180      4,180      -            0.17      0.17        -
6.    Travelling expenses - foreign    -           938        873       -          -          277     2,088        -       2,088         0.09        -        0.09
7.    Staff Training Programne            16        20        122        87        115      1.541     1.901      1,901       -           0.07       0.07       -
8.    Other SerAices. uniforms,           25       395        632     1,254      1,115      6,973    10,394    10,394       -            0.39       0.39       -
trade testing etc.
12,399    28,522    32,543    29,821    52,645    32,625   188,555    72,105   116,450             7.66       2.85      4.81
NmES  :  (1) ACTUAL EPMDITRe
SOURCE  -  1981 to 1985 from audited accounts
1986 per draft accounts



SRI LANKA CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECr
ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL OVERHEADS (Rs'000)                                  USS '000
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985       1986     TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL        LOCAL  FjOREICN
ACrUAL EXPENDITURE
1. Personnel Emoluments                22     1,236     1,791     3,368     5,157     5,367    16,941    16,941       -          0.65      0.65
2. Administrative Expenses             266     1,642    2,165     3,211     3,251      6,920    17,455    17,455       -         0.68      0.68
3. Utility Services                    56       524     1,224     1.590     2,508      2.428     8.330    8.330       -          0.32      0.32
4. Service Charge on IDA Loan           68      324       615       143     2,192      2,000     5.342     5.342       -         0.20      0.20
5. Fellowship Outside Sri Lanka        -      2,360        -        439       763      1,085    4,647        -      4,647        0.20       -       0.20
6. Research Studies and Surveys        -         -        398        25       257        241       921      921        -         0.03      0.03      -
7. Public Relations, Advertising        -        -        543       749       194         53     1.S.39    1.539       -         0.06      0.06      -
and Information
Sub Total                  412      6,086    6,736     9,525    14,322    18,094    55,175    50,528     4,647        2.14      1.94     0.20
8. Depreciation of fixed assets        -         206    1,443     6,038     7.375      9,041    24,103    24,103      -          0.90      0.90      -
412     6,292    8,179    15,563    21,697    27,135    79,278    74,631      4,647       3.04      2.84     0.20
NOTES:
(1) ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
SOURCE  -  1981 to 1985 from audited accounts
1986 per draft accounts



SRI LANKA CONSTRUC1ION INDUSTRY TRAINING PROJECT
VOTED FUNDS FROM GOVRENT OF SRI LAA
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMERT, NOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Rs'OOC                                                             USS '000
Y E A R        PARTIAL      CUMULATIVE    LOCAL EXPENSES                                                LOCAL ElPENSES
REIMBURSED                     PARTIAL        CUMUlATIVE     RElMBURSED
BY IDA                                                       BY IDA
1981               411            411             -                               21             21             -
1982            51,400         51,811              60                         2.464           2,485               3
1983            52,282        103.093          12.360                         2.214           4.699            524
1984            52,800        155.893          29,760                         2,075           6.774           1,170
1985            76,960        232.853          47,360                         2.833           9,607           1,743
1986            84,851        317,704          62,357                         3,028          12,635          2,225
(1)  ACTUAL RECEF
SOURCE  -  1981 to 1985 from audited accounts
1986 per draft accounts
(2) LDCAL EXPENSES REIMBURSED BY IDA
The reimbursements by IDA are sent direct to the Treasury.                                                                               10
The balances are ceflected in the project accounts under the categorv of debtors In current assets.



SRI LANKA CONSTRUCTR.,#    , TifY IRAINING PROJECT
INTERNATIONAL :.)MPMENT ASSOCIATION
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT                                              .    .    APPRAISAL  ESTlttTES
Y e A R              S D R '000                       Rs '01Y:                      US$  '000                       USS  'oor
PARTIAL       CUMULATIVE       PARTIAL      '1,1AULATIVE      PARTIAL        CUMULATIVE      PARTIAL        CUMULATIVE
1981            1,241           1,241         27,632         !7,632           1,417          1.417              900            900
1982            1,199          2,440          30,048         37,680           1,440          2,857            4,500          5,400
1983            1,564          4,004          38,639)        96,319           1,637          4,494            3.800          9,200
1984            1,348           5,352         35,090        131,409           1,378          5,872            4.300         13,500
1985            2,348           7,700         66,328        197,737           2,439          8,311              -              -
1986 to         2,444          10,144         85.437        283.174           3,049         11,360              -              -
end June 1967
NOTES:
(1)   SOURCE
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES - Sri Lanka Staff Appraisal Report of March 3. 1981 (Table 13)
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS - 1981 to 1985 from audited accounts
1986 per draft accounts                                                                                                    w
zq
(2)   Amount of Credit Allocated - 10.9 million SDR
SOURCE : Development Credit Agreement



TABLE SHOWIrG -OMPARATIV1 STUDY OF TRAINING NEEDS & AC.UAL o.LrrPtV
Training Targets as per Staff      Revised Targets according to Needs   Actual Output as at 31.12.86
Appraisal Report -                 Assessment conducted by NIBM -         Figures based on Output Details
Mar. 3, 1981 (Report No.3219-CE)   March 1983 Report -  Dec- 1985         furnished by ICTAD.
for 1981 to 1984 (3 years)         1982 to 1986. (5 years)RePort - for    Total Project Period 5 years
_______________________               1986 only .      _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Scenario 1 Scenario 2 -Scenario A
Artisans:   Basic                 45,000                  )            )           )
Advanced               9,600                 )   17,250   )  23,900   )  4,374    )            20,669
Advanced  9,600  )  )    )           )        +  12,143 (Million Houses
Programme)
Mechanical Equipment
Operators & Mechanics              1,800                       6,550       2,830        670                 2,331
Work Supervisors                     900                       3,020       1,000        -                   1,499
Works Managers                        80                         570         150        538                 1,100
T  0 T  A  L                      57,380                      27,390      27,880      5,582                37,742
AVERAGE / YEAR                    19,127                       5,478       5,576      5,582                 6,862
Notes:  ( i)  Scenario 1 - based on Works Estimates available for scrutiny to the NIBM
( i) Scenario 2 - based on a 5% uniform'growth rate per year
(iii) Scenario A - based on Works Estimates, caterin' for Maintenance Works as well.
( iv)  179 Engineers from the RDA who followed a short-term course in Management have been omitted from the
Output for Works Managers.
( v)  The number of females who had been trained is only a paltry 139 for the whole Project-Period.



PROJECTED TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
1982 - 1986 (5 years)
SCENARIO NO.1 - NI3M'S MARCH 1983 REPORT
SKILL CATEGORY                1981        1982        1983      1984        1985       1986      TOTAL
Tech Planning & Mgt.             0          '80        10        70          100        210           570
Site Supervisor                  0         1260       110        660          0        1090         3020
Machine Operator -Heavy           0         190       190.      300          360        490i         1530
-  do  -          Light         O         1S50        70       700           0        1850         4170
Mechanic - Heavy Equipt.         0           70       100      - 140          20         60          390
Mechanic - Light Equipt.         0          330         0        130          0          0            460
Mason/Bricklayer                 0           0      27t30      2910         3220       1980         10840
Carpenter                        0         1710      810       1730           0          0          4250
Barbender                        0          510        0        210           0          0           720
Scaffolder                       0          300        10        40           0          0           350
Plumber                          0           0         0        100           40         40          180
Electric Wirer                   0           0        50        520          180        160          910
TOTAL           0        6100      4080      7410         3920       5880         27390
GRAND TOTAL FOR 51 YEARS   27,390
AVERAGE YEARLY Ot1TPUT       5,478



vr.i rs)
SCENARIO r;C._ N.i.A.M'.  MARCH 1983 REPORT
SKILL CATEGORY                  1981      1982     1983      1984      1985       1986        TOTAL
Tech. Planning & Mgt.                0         30        30       30        3v         30           150
Site Supervisor                      0        200      200       200       200        200          1000
Machine Operator-Heavy               0        240      240       230       220        220          1150
-   do   -         Light             0        i2r,      100       80        70         50          420
Mechanic-Peavy Equipt .              0        130       130      130       130        130          650                  1
-  do  -  Light Equipt.              0        130      130       120       120        110          610
Mason/Brickla:;er                    0       2040     2040      2040      2040      2030          10190
Carpenter                            0       i670     1660      1660      1650       1650         8290
Barbender                            0        360      360       350       350       350          1770
Scaffolder                           0         70       70        70        70        70           350
Plumber                              0        140      200       190       190       200           920
Electric Wirer                       0       470       480       470      480        480          2380
TOTAL:            0      5600      5640      5570     5550       5520         27880
GRAND TOTAL FOR 5| YEARS 27,880
AVERAGE YEARLY OUTPUT    5,576



PROJECTED TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
1986
SCENARIO A - NIBM'S DECEMBER 1985 REPORT
SKILL CATEGORY                               '986                           AVERAGE
RETRAINING REQUIREMENTS PER YEAR
FROM 1986 TO 1990
Tech.Planning & Mgt.                               538                                   -
Site Supervisor                                     0                                   300
Machine Operator - Heavy                           227                                    99
Machine Operator    Light                          417                                   379
Mechanic - Heavy Equipt.                            26                                    37
Mechanic - Light Equipt.                            0                                     82
Mason/Bricklayer                                  3251                                  2138
Mason/Special Finisher                             333                                    50
Carpenter/Shutterer                                325                                  1599
Barbender/Steel Fixer                               0                                    193
Scaffolder                                         183                                    75
Plumber                                            282                                   597
Electrical Wirer                                    0                                    175
TOTAL:                5582                                  5724
w
I;



ANNEXES
- 101 -
I



ANNEX I
- 103 -
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & BOARDS
ENGAGING IN CONSTRUCTION WORK
1.   The Department of Buildings
2.    Department of Highways
3.    Irrigation Department
4.    Land Development Department
S.   Depprtmerat of Machinery & Equipment
6.   Ceylon Government Railways
7.   Colombo Port Commission
8.    River Valleys Development Board
9.   Ceylon Electricity Board
10.   Natiorsl Water Supply & Drainage Board
11.   Colombo (Low Lying Areas) Reclamation & Drainage Board
12.   State Engineering Corporation
13.    State Development & Construction Corporation
14.   Territorial Civil Engineering Organisation



ANNEX 2
- 104 -
COMPOSITION OF PROJECT CELL
The following were the members of the Project Cell:-
1.   Director, CITP.
2.   Deputy Director, Supervisory Training.
3.   Deputy Director, Artisan Training.
4.   Deputy Director, Operator/Mechanic Training.
5.   Co-ordinator, On-Site Training.
6.  Project Accountant
7. Convenor, National Steering Committee.
8.   Project Co-ordinator, MLGHC.
9.   Representative, National Apprenticeship Board.



ANNEX 3
- 105 -
LIST OF ARTISAN TRAINING CENTRES
Training Centre                        Courses Available
1.  Hardy Senior Technical Institute, Amparai.            Masonry
Carpentry
Electrical
".  Junior Technical Institute (JTI), Anuradhapura        Masonry
Carpentry
Electrical
3.  J  T  I, Dambulla                                     Masonry, Carpentry
4.  J  T  I, Hasalaka                                            -do-
5.  J  T  I, Homagama                                     Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical.
6.  J  T  I, Kalutara                                     Masonry, Carpentry
7.  J  T  I, Kegalle                                            -do-
B.   J  T  I, Kurunegala                                  Masonry, Carpentry,
Plumbing
9.  J  T  !, Kuliyapitiya                                 Masonry, Carpentry
10.   J  T  I, Matara                                      Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical, Plumbing
11.  J T  I, Nuwara Eliya                                  Masonry, Carpentry
12.   J  T  I, Ratmalana                                   Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical, Plumbing
13.  J  T  I, Ratnapura                                    Masonry, Carpentry
14.  J  T  I, Sammanthurai                                 Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical
15.  Sri Lanka Technical College, Colombo 10.              Masonry, Carpentry
16.  Sugathadasa Technical Institute, Mattakkuliya.        Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical.
17.  Dudley Senanayake Technical Institute, Warakapola. Masonry, Carpentry.
le.  Affiliate Technical Institute (ATI), Wariyapola.    Masonry, Carpentry



- 106 -
19.   A  T  I, Beliatta                                     Masonry, Carpentry
2U.   A T  I, Balapitiya                                    Masonry, Carpentry
Steel Fixing & Bar Bending
21.   Polytechnical Institute (PI), Kandy.                  Masonry, Carpentr.;,
Electrical, Plumbing,
Steel Fixing & Bar Bending
22.   P  I, Jaffna.                                         Masonry, Carpentry,
Electrical, Plumbing
.1
23.   P I, Badulla.                                         Masonry, Carpentry
24.   P  I, Galle.                                                  -do-
2 5.  SEC Pre-Cast Yard, Ekala.                             Steel Fixing & Bar Bending



- 107 -
ANNEX 4
MAP OF SRI LANKA SHOWING LOCATION OF
TRAINING  INSTITUTES
i'|           n~~~RA - APU- A    
*GALKULAMA
OAMSULLA
0
WARIYAPOLA                                SATICALOA
KULIYAPITIYA KURUNEGALA
0
\                       q,~~~~~*AsUAK                  AMANTHURAI
WARAKAPOLA  *KANDY
0     KEGALLA                             PARAI
COLOMBO         omTTAKKULIYA                  0 MR.A  
aooB   w  HOMAOAMA               N t  U 
RATMALANA     ° 
o RATHAPURA
KALUTARA  0
SALAPITIYA
IUonIO  TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
POLYTECHNICAL INSTITUTES
MATARA                  StNIOR TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
AFFILIATED TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
CtNTRt FOR H,P5 BUILDING
OPflATORS TRAINtNG CENTRE(H.E)
OPERATORS   q        *  (L.E)



- 108 -           ANNEX S
LIST OF SPECIFICATIONS PREPARED BY THE CITP
1.   Conditions of Contract for Works of Building and
Civil Engineering.
2.   Guidelines for Tender Procedures.
3.   Specifications for Irrigation and Land Drainage.
4.    Specifications for Water Supply, Sewerage and Storm
Water Works.
5.   Specifications for Reclamation Works.
6.   Specifications for Ground Water Exploration and
Exploitation.
7.   Specifications for Building Works (Vol. .1)
8.   Specifications for Building Works (Vol.II)
9.   Specifications for Coastal and Harbour Engineering Works.
10.   Specifications for Electrical and Mechanical Works
Associated with Building and Civil Engineering.
.                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~***d* ** *



- 109 -                     ANNEX 6
BI9LIOGRAPHY
=0=0=000=00-
1.   Central Bank of Sri Lanka  -  Annual Reports
(1978 - 1986)
2.    Central Bank of Sri Lanka  -  Review of the Economy
(1978, 1981, 1985)
J.   Central Bank of Sri Lanka  -  Bulletin
(September 1986)
4.    Dr. S. Ganesan              -  "Management of Small
Construction Firms" -
Asian Productivity
Organisation (1982)
5.   Dr. S. Ganesan               -  "The Development of
National Contractors:
Part I - ICTAD in
Association with the
World Bank (1986)
6.   Dr. S. Ganesan               -  "The Construction industry
in Sri Lanka" -
World Employment Programme
Research (1982)
ARTEP / ILO                 -  Asian Employment Programme
"Impact of Out & Return
Migration on Domestic
Employment in Sri Lanka:
A Preliminary Analysis
(1985)
o.    Employment & Manpower       -  "Dimensions of Sri Lankan
Division, Ministry of           Returned Migration"
Plan Implementation             (1985)
9.    Employment & Manpower       -  Migration Statistics
Division, Ministry of          (1980, 1981)
Plan Implementation
10.    Department of Census        -  Labour Force & Socio-
& Statistics                   Economic Survey
(1981/81) Sri Lanka
1l.    World Bank                  -  Sri Lanka Staff Appraisal
Report: Sri Lanka Con-
struction Industry Training
Project  (1981)
Contd.
X= == =



- 110 -
12.   The British Council        -  Sri Lanka Construction
Industry Training Project
(August 1986)
13.   SLCITP, MLGHC              -  Preparation Report:
Second Construction Industry
Training Project
14.   C I T P                     -  Tracer Study
(1983, 1984, 19851
15.   National Institute of      -  "Assessment of Training Needs
Business Management:            in the Construction Industry"
C I T P                         (1983, 1985)
16.   Department of Census       -  Impact Assessment Study
& Statistics                   (July 1987)
17.   Quarterly Progress Reports  (1981 - 1987)
1.8.   Minutes of Secretaries Committee (1t  Meetings)
19.   Aide-Memoirs  (9 - from May/June 1981 to March 1987)



- ill -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                ANNEX 7(a)
o|sglo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ,                    qmo l.9./
S869267
Mifliw    I                                            a.. q.0
Mnine }id   1                                           Your No. /
Xtrla  blSnin r t > ZCIC3 
zzSw      }1583164     =An0aataih
Socruary                                 15104ffih~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aburSertariat
}3991            MINISTRY OF LABOUR           Nonpita,
p  }.istcslrt.Nvaer 1988.
Mr. Alewamier bicmicki,
Division Chief,
Operations Evaluation Department,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Nlowicki,
Re: Sri Lanka - Construction Industry Project
( Credit 1130 - CE )
Pass-arKg  Audit Report
Thank you for your letter of Septenber 30, 1988 forwarding
a copy of the Completion Report on the above Project.
I have read the rePort and I find that it contains a fair
and reasonable assessnunt of the achievements of the Project.
Yours sincerely,
D.M.P.B. Dasanayake
Secretary
Ministry of Labour.



- 112 -
@3*  *:Go. Mm 0D3 9ti6   q)55.TPage 1                                       of 2
&iTtap"  dLaoL4 196WtwIiwp .a4U,m"
MNISTRWY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. HOUSING AND CONSTRUC`ON
_D 0;0 88  esww*whb Be GAMUDAWA 66
*oeA .   J11  11  Imwk&" uedu
YEAR         J       SHELTER FOR ALI
"4*0.~U'". gggup*wqVGa'A uIa2_U .J-    Sutjtfrl.y". itt jawduomW1 Kotte. S.ttamuII
56236661       S9pu*a* } 562361                 JJ& )S62461 .ats3ow   57162"
t"tiaIaw   J        Privatue 5mmr   j         dtlomi 5ec f I    nn        aj I     5I
5462370  *UId-"f        5 4 242 4    12  uU)  5624a)  S               J562 4
D0ty MtntsW J   s    ecmtasy      j         SttMEW SEWraus7 (Mm.)  J
"d4Fem }*       PPL/3/ICTAD/22/87                  b    lNpvember ,  1988
Mr.Alexander Nowicki,
Division Chief,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr.Nowicki,
Re: Sri Lanka - Construction Industry Project
(Credit 1130-CE)
Pass-Through Audit Report
In response to your letter of September 30, 1988, ' am *leased
to forward the following comments on the Project Completion Report on
the Sri Lanka Construction Industry Training Project (IDA Credit 1130-
CE).
(a) t/s R.D.C. selected as an independent group was recruited
to review the CITP activities and write a completion
report with the concurrence of the visiting IDA Mlssion.
The general observations and the specific comments are
based on the observations made by the consultants on the
project activities.  This has been cleared through after
regular Interationls with the CITP/ICTAD staff during
the consultants work.
(b)  The methodology for the preparation work was also deter-                                   -
mined by CITP in consultation with the IDA Mission.
(c) Therefore, as a general observation It may be mentioned
that the Mlnistry is in agreement with the contents of
the report.
K      o.      M      g iAOFTIN" N TUN



ANNEX 7(b)
Page 2 of 2
- 113 -
(d) There has been some variation in the extent to which
the Project Objectives have been achieved. The major
variation Is In the quantitative trainee output targets
which is recorded as 65%. The other variation is the
project period which has been exceeded by 2 years. Both
variations were affected after two Needs Assessment
Surveys were conducted in 1983 and 1985. With the
change of the buoyant trend In the Construction Industry
from the situation In 1977 to 1981 period to the post
1983 period, the ainual trainee output was reduced from
an orlginally estimated figure of 15,000 to about 7,000
to be In llne with the prevailing needs. These changes
were agreed to by the visiting IDA Mission.
Consequent to this reduction was the saving In financial
outlay which was to some extent committed by the agreed
extension of the project period by 2 years. However, a
further shortfall In the financial outlay was still
recorded due to variations in the parity rate of $ to
Rupees between the project appraisal peri..d of 1979 -
1980 and the project Implementation period 1982 - 1985.
However, this shortfall in the quantitative output was
adequately compensated for by the corresponding achieve-
ments In qualititative aspects such as the development
of short term training programmes, establishment of
National Skill Standards and Trade Testing for the
first time In the Construction Industry of Sri Lanka,
the upgrading of the Training Centres and the Training
of Instructors which have helped in a big way In the
setting-up of the Second Vocational Training Project
for the Construction Industry.
The shortfall In the financial output In the general
project activities has heen compensated for by a 25%
Increase In the Technical Assistant component. By this
means new consultancies in the area of highways
training, contractor development and Implementation of
a staff development programme were undertaken as a means
of achieving technology transfer.
(e) As regards effectiveness of World Bank support It may
be mentioned that the observations in Chapter V is
very significant. This demonstrated the effectiveness
of the bank group, in responding with project revisions
to suit the changing needs during project implementation.
This enabled the use of bank assistance for optimum
benefit.
We are hopeful that you will fInd these comnents beneficial: and
we look forward to receiving a copy of the final Pass-Through Audit
Report. In the meantime, if we may be of further assistance we will,
of course, be pleased to respond upon your request.
Sincerely,
R. Pag a I
Secr



.   ..  I I      .  ' -,   -  ' I  I .IANNEX    7()
-11,4-  *         .                       Page 1 of 4
THE VORLD BANKINTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
SRI LANKA REStDENT MISSION
P 0 00 176t
COLOM8O, SRI LANKA
FACS1IMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM
DATE$  Novembr 9. 1966                                 NBSC "
UNDER OF
PA6E9aSJ_ (Including this page)
FROIt berims Thllakab,na 4tG
TO. COMPANYtORIANIZATIONs   INTDAIRAD
CITY AND COUNTRY.  WASRINGTON D C   U S&A
FOR THE ATTENTION OFt  Ms. A. NOWICKI
DEPT/DIVa  ODDD2        ROOM NID  H 601S
IX NUN3ER&
IUBJECTi   SRI LANKA: eonstruction Industry Training Project (CR 1,130 CE)
41
Please see attached from M4r. Conrad de Ticsera
ccl
iu experience any prahlems with this transmission, please call back
,on as psslbl.s
548070/71, 21340
at   540357
Not 21410 INDEVAS CE



Wv Lw* w zoo W 1WORLD B*W SRI Lk"               94 1 540357      P.02
~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 7(c)
Page 2 -T
O   - 115 -
NVWTr;Y ci- LLcAt tovFr    N-FNT, HouwrJM    ANC rXxNsTt4LWTVN-'
istitute for Construction Training and Development
"SaWi'ipNy" 123. Wetarm Mewetha. Cufombo07. S LenkiL (P.Q Boa 1975) luphan-Gsnwul Of1c 96093.2n236
You ow                        Date' 09th Nov. '88
Mr Agtxaneder Nowioki
Divislon Chief
Operatlons Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W,
Washington D.C. 20433
U S A.
Dear Mr Nowicki
Srl Lanka Construction Indstr  Trainino Prolzt
.(Creit1130-CE) - Pasthrough Audit _Report
Thank you very much for your letter dated 30th September 1988 on the above
Subject.
The Institute for Construction Training and Development (ICTAD) is pleased
to send the following observations on the Completlon Report In respect of
the Construction Industry Training Project (CITP), which was Its predecessor.
It may be noted that this Independent consultant, was rocruited with the
concurrence of the IDA Visiting Mission to undertake the task of reviewing
the project activities and writing-up the Completlon Report. The trrtns of
reference and the modalities were also determined by the CITP In con?nzltatiOn
with the IDA Mission, During the Consultant's work, several discussions were
hold with CITP staff and clarificatlons were made through such interactions.
Accordingly there is general acceptance of the contents of this Completion
Report by the ICTAD.
Proet :ectives:
Wlth reference to the extent to which the project objectives were achieved,
we observe that reference has been made in Page 13 to the objectives that
were agreed to durlng the project preparation period in 1979/80. In Page 30
para 4.01, reference has been made to the circumstances under which a
re-assessment of training targets were made. It would be seen that the project
had achieved an output of 30%, In excess of the revised physical tralning
t!rFrts
U...V-
A0, w   0  .       ,,



ANNEX 7(c)_
Page 3 of 4
- 116 -
In this context, It Is noteworthy to record some of the qualitative achievements,
of the CITP In the training area. The development of short term modular
training programmes for training of constructlon Industry workers to limited
but employable skill levels In the shortest possible time, was a new concept
In the vocatlonal training area Ir Sri Lanka. Associated with this is the
development of training manuals, the training methodology and the Instructor
training programmes In support of above that were achieved by the CITP.
Thmse outputs have contributed in a large way for a smooth take off of the
2nd wcatlonal training project being implemented by ICTAD for the construction
industry.
The recorded short-fall In physical output achieved compared to the original
tralnino taraet  has bwen more than compenated by the achivements on ihe
above qualitative development aspects.
Another qualitative achivement which In our opinion compensates for the
short-fall In quantitative achievement Is the development of the natlonal skills
standards and the natlonal trade testing and certification system for construction
Industry workers which was Introduced for the first time in Sri Lanka.
Apart from the above quantitative training targets, all other project objectives
have been achieved by the CITP as recorded In the project document.
With reference to the reasons for variations between planned and actual output,
the satement In Chapter 5 relating to the achievement of 65% estimated
trainee output by the project, within a two year extended period, has io be
viewed In the context of the project revislons that were Incorporated based
on regular reviews done by Visiting IDA Missions and the CITP. These revisions
were based  on the 2 needs asssment surveys mentioned In Chapter 4 of the
report.
Tte CITP therefore took the logical course of action by training the required
output of construction Industry workers to satisfy the estimated needs prevailing
In the post 1983 period on an annual basis, estimated at about 7,000, rether
than attempting  to  achieve the projected annual trainee output of about
151000,.WIthin the original 3 year project period.
The varlation In the financial output has been mainly due to the reduction
In the expenditure on training materials etc. as a consequence to the reduction
In tralnee output, and due to the changes In the parity rates between the
dollar and the Sri Lankan rupee.
The C-TP under the circumstances however attempted to commit a higher
Inveoxment In the technical assistance cost in the hope of achieving the
objective of technology transfer, as a long term Investment for a continuing
construction Industry training activity.
_g  Gm Smot :
In reupect of the World Bank support, It Is the opinlon of ICTAD, that the
Bank group has made a very significant contribution In re-shaping the project
objectives to suit the prevailing needs. These changes were Influenced by
external factors affecting the construction Industry.  The Interest shown by
...2/-



Page 4 of 4
- 117 -
the Be-'k grop to shift the emphasis from quantitative outputs to qualitative
outpute, and technology transfer through increasd technical assistance Inputs
and the Implementation of a stff davelopmont programme Is a clear response
to changes In operating environment In a developing country. by a Bank group
managing and supervising & developm6nt credt agreement.
I hope the observations are of some help to you, In including the comments
of ICTAD In the pasthrough audit report.
WITH KIND REGARDS.
Yours sincerely
U
C H de Timra
Dirootor General
INSTITUTE FOR CONSTRUCTION
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT



