Document of
The World Bank                 Fljj  (urr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3219-CE
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
March 3, 1981
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used hy recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Sri Lankan Rupee
US$1.00 = SL Rs 18.0
SL Rs 1.00 = US$o.056
SL Rs 1 million = US$55,556
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH
1 foot (ft)    =  0.305 meters
1 mile (mi)    =  1.609 kilometers
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
BC    -  British Council
CHPB  -  Center for Housing Planning and Building
CITB  -  Construction Industry Training Board (UK)
DHE   -  Department of Higher Education
DOL   -  Department of Labor
DRI   -  Department of Rural Industries
GOSL  -  Government of Sri Lanka
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
LOLC  -  Lanka Orient Leasing Company
MLGHC - Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
NAB   -  National Apprenticeship Board
NTCCI - National Training Committee for the Construction Industry
PPF   -  Project Preparation Facility
SCCI  -  Secretaries' Committee for the Construction Industry
SLCC  -  Sri Lanka Construction Consortium
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA ....               ............   1
A. Background ..............                                             1
B.    The Medium-Term Outlook for the Industry .... .....    2
C.    Trends in Construction Employment  ....             ............    2
D.    Social Characteristics Affecting the
Construction Industry ...........................    3
II.    THE ORGANIZATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION INDIJSTRY .... .....    4
A.    Training Organizations  ..............       ..............        4
B.    Construction Companies ...........................    5
C.    The Construction Consortium ......................                 7
D.    Government Institutions Concerned with
Construction ...................................                8
III.    BANK GROUP LENDING IN RELATED SECTORS ....                .............    9
IV.    THE PROJECT ...........................................                  9
A.    Background  .......................................                9
B.    Objectives  ................           .......................    10
C.    Description ......................................    10
D.    Training Principles  ..............................   11
E.    Cost Estimates ...................................   18
F.    Project Implementation  ...........................   19
G.    Project Monitoring and Reporting  ....              .............   21
H.    Procurement  .......................................   23
I.    Financing and Disbursement ........................   23
V.    BENEFITS AND RISK . .          ...................................    24
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS              ........................   25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Sri
Lanka in June/July 1980 and was composed of H. Sydney Thriscutt, Jessica Mott
and Max Pulgar-Vidal (Bank) assisted by Andrew Martin and Dennis Maiden
(consultants). Eric Pogson (Bank) also assisted in project preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES
1.   Trends of the Construction Industry
2.   Distribution of Emigration by Job Category
3.   Manpower Requirements - Mahaweli
4.   Manpower Requirements - Public Housing Program - Direct Construction
5.   Estimated Total Manpower Requirements and Numbers to be Trained
(All Grades)
6.   Basic Skills and Advanced Artisan Training Resources
7.   Tentative Schedule of Trainee Enrollment
8.   Tentative Schedule of Training Courses
9.   Schedule of Technical Assistance, Inspectors and Instructors
with Training Costs
10.   Schedule of Mechanical Equipment
11.   Schedule of Training Materials
12.   Estimated Project Costs by Year
13.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Modular Training for the Construction Industry
2.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training
3.   Draft Terms of Reference for the Project Cell
4.   Draft Terms of Reference for NTCCI
5.   Draft Conditions of Training Subcontract
6.   Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.   Role of Modular Training to Develop a Career Structure
2.   Operation of Modular Training under the National Apprenticeship
Board
3.   Organization of a Technical Assistance Team
MAPS      IBRD No. 15286



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PRDJECT
I. THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA
A. Background
1.01      The state of the construction industry in Sri Lanka has reflected
trends in the economy as a whole. The industry experienced rapid growth
during the buoyant 1966-70 period, and sharp declines from 1961 to 1965 and
again from 1971 to 1977 when the economy was depressed. Decline was parti-
cularly severe during the latter period when real output of the sector fell
by 17%, dropping from 5.6% to 3.8% of the GDP with construction costs rising
considerably more slowly than did the GDP deflator (Table 1). Government
policy concerning wages, prices and foreign exchange caused a dramatic shift
of work from the private to the public sector of l-he industry, and by 1977 the
industry as a whole and especially the private sector was in a state of
depression. It had a reduced and largely antiquated fleet of vehicles and
equipment, and was poorly placed to undertake any major expansion, a situation
accentuated by significant emigration of skilled manpower to better paid jobs
in the Middle East during the late 1970s.
1.02      With economic revitalisation since 1977 and the removal,' of import
and price controls, there has been a demand for greater constructi'b' activity,
Leading to a rapid increase in construction costs, due primarily to material
and manpower shortages and the industry's initial low capacity. The Central
Bank estimates that value added in the construction industry rose by 28% in
1L978 and a further 21% in 1979 in real terms. Total value added in the con-
struction industry in 1979 stood at Rs 3,218 million at current prices.
Inadequate planning and poor management of works have been subsidiary causes
of cost increases of 45% in 1978 and 50% or more in 1979, compared with a rise
of only 2% in the two year period 1975-77. The rise in construction costs
applies in all parts of Sri Lanka, with costs in outlying districts tending to
move into line with those in and around Colombo. Shortages of materials and
skilled labor are estimated to add 25% to normal construction times, while the
(juality of finished work is poor. Materials in short supply include cement,
steel, timber, bricks, sand and stone aggregate. The first three can be
imported at a cost, but bricks, sand and aggregate economically cannot,
although local production of these items appears to be increasing in response
to demand. So far as labor is concerned, there is. both an absolute shortage
and also a dilution of skilled labor by unskilled in the industry, and the
present output of about 6,000 trained construction workers a year from various
centers is not sufficient to improve matters significantly over the next few
years. The two largest items in the Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL's)
construction program, Mahaweli and the public housing program, are planned to
reach their peak activity in 1982 and 1983 respectively. Unless early measures
can be implemented to increase the capacity of the construction industry,
these principal objectives of GOSL's development plan will suffer delays.



-2-
The public investment program was revised downwards in 1979. In recent months,
the 1981 budget has imposed nominal ceilings on the capital expenditures of
the ministries, which has led to a further revision of the public investment
program.
B. The Medium-Term Outlook for the Industry
1.03      The Central Bank estimates that construction volume in the public
sector was about Rs 1.6 billion in 1978, and the volume in 1982 on account
of lead projects alone is planned at Rs 5.0 billion. The largest project,
the accelerated Mahaweli Program, will for the most part be undertaken by
foreign contractors on a turnkey basis using directly imported materials,
which will reduce the demand on domestic-traded items. Nevertheless, this
program will put a severe strain on balance of payments, non-traded items and
on local manpower resources. Construction work which is privately financed
currently accounts for about half of total construction-related investment,
but this share may decrease due to limited capacity of the construction indus-
try. Since much of the private investment takes the form of unrecorded im-
provements and extensions, no very accurate estimates can be made of the rate
of growth of privately financed construction-related investment. An indica-
tion is given by the growth of building approvals in the Colombo municipality
between 1977 and 1979, which increased 102%, 89% for housing and 305% for
commercial and industrial building. The housing boom may already have peaked
due to soaring land and construction costs, but commercial investment is likely
to continue to rise. Although private sector investment as a whole is probably
less construction oriented than that of the public sector, it is nevertheless
likely to generate a continuing and sustained demand for construction services.
1.04        In real terms, the industry achieved a 28% growth in 1978 and 21%
in 1979, but taking into account the shortages of materials, manpower and
management which have developed, it is unlikely that such growth rates can
continue. While it may be possible to overcome materials shortages in the
short term by extraordinary measures and to import management expertise,
it does not seem feasible to produce the skilled construction workers by 1982
or 1983 which will be called for by the publicly financed construction as now
planned, and still allow the level of privately financed construction to take
place that is necessary to attain balanced development (para 1.06).
C.   Trends in Construction Employment
1.05      The construction industry labor force is made up of technical
management and supervisors (about 2.5%)--who are mostly graduate engineers or
supervisors who have had full time vocational training--artisans who have
learned their trade by long apprenticeship (about 18%), equipment operators
(3% to 4%) and unskilled or semi-skilled workers making up the balance.
Although now increasing, construction workers represent only a small part of
Sri Lanka's workforce. Assuming constant productivity, the low level of
activity in the industry during most of the 1970s indicates that its labor



- 3 -
Eorce remained at about 100,000, or 2% of the totail workforce from 1971,
when a census was taken, through to 1977. In recent years, employment in
t:he construction industry grew to 116,000 in 1978 and 140,000 in 1979 (Table
I). This increase would represent about one-fifth of all new jobs created
in 1978-1979, and about one-third would have been for skilled workers.  In
addition, perhaps as much as half Sri Lanka's emigrants to the Middle East
have been construction workers, particularly equipment operators, carpenters
and masons among trained emigrants (Table 2). Remittances from emigrant
construction workers have become an important source of foreign exchange,
since salaries are four or five times their level in Sri Lanka, and it is
common to remit 80% or 90% back to families at home.
1.06      The revised public investment program, which includes the Mahaweli
project (Table 3) and the public housing program (Table 4), will require large
numbers of extra construction workers over the following years. Against this
background, it is estimated that a 15% p.a. growth of the workforce in the
construction industry over the period 1980-84 would be realistically attain-
able and would also be sufficient to meet the demands of the revised public
investment program as well as increased private investment levels (Table 5).
D. Social Characteristics Affecting the Construction Industry
1.07      Traditionally, construction has been a family trade passed down
through the generations and accorded only low status in Sri Lanka society.
Although rising wages, new training programs and the shortages of skilled
workers, especially for work overseas, is making employment in construction
more attractive, past traditions will undoubtedly c:ontinue to influence entry
into construction work below the level of technical management and supervisor.
1.08      New workers to the industry in the past learned their trade through
years of apprenticeship under a master craftsman, often a member of the family,
where there was little formal instruction.  Learning was by means of a series
oE accidental contacts with situations over a period of decade or more before
the apprentice came to be recognized as competent at his trade and could, in
turn, take apprentices under him. With the recent high demand for construc-
tion workers, apprentices have tended to leave and take up paid employment
before they are fully trained, so that the traditional system may be becoming
second to formal training as the principal means of producing skilled workers
(para 2.02). Females have always been employed in the industry, and their
numbers are increasing, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of the
whiole work force. In 1971, the census year, there were 1.2% of females in the
industry, and this increased to over 5% in 1977 according to a Ministry of
Labour survey. Currently, women make up as much as 20% of the labor on urban
building work, decreasinf: to about 10% on heavy construction work and in some
rural areas. Women work mainly as unskilled laborers, although recently signi-
ficant numbers have become semi-skilled masons. Any program to improve the
industry should allow for female workers in training and promotion.
1.09      Social attitudes towards construction work mean that the career
development pattern common in many countries hardly exists in Sri Lanka.
Except amongst the poorest members of society, there is still a very marked



- 4 -
aversion to an occupation which involves physical work in the open air,even
at high pay rates. Partly as a result of this attitude, it is quite uncommon
for an unskilled laborer to rise to any position above that of junior foreman
(Gang Baas), while most senior supervisors are appointed directly to the post
after some off-site training, which is often highly theoretical and may be
quite unsuited for the practical nature of the duties involved.
II. THE ORGANIZATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
A.   Training Organizations
2.01      There are four principal government bodies associated with training
for construction workers in Sri Lanka:
(a)  The National Apprenticeship Board (NAB) was set up in 1973
under the Ministry of Youth and Employment. NAB administers
craft training at work sites for youths aged between 18 and
24, and currently supervises about 8,000 trainees, of which
about 1,400 are apprentices for building and allied trades.
NAB does no training itself, but recruits apprentices,
establishes training curricula and testing standards, and
carries out field inspection of training on work sites. For
construction trades, there are some one year courses, but
the majority are three or four year courses. NAB also
runs a Special Apprenticeship scheme with about 500 trainees
at higher levels, and administers training for about 375
middle level supervisors a year in National Diploma courses,
plus undergraduate training for about 100 upper management
trainees per year at universities.
(b)  The Department of Labor (DOL), under the Ministry of Labor,
trains students aged between 18 and 30 who have at least
eight years of schooling. For construction related training,
the Ministry operates through two permanent and 130 mobile
centers offering courses in masonry and carpentry, plus a few
courses in metal work and motor repair and maintenance, to a
total of about 2,700 students a year. Most courses are of six
or nine months duration.
(c)  The Department of Rural Industries (DRI), under the Ministry
of Rural Development, operates 75 centers to train carpenters
on one year courses, plus three centers giving two year
courses in cabinet making. About 1,500 trainees are currently
taking carpentry courses. The training is rigorous and
graduates are highly regarded by employers.
(d)  The Department of Higher Education (DRE), under the Ministtr
of Higher Education, has 20 technical institutes offering a
variety of courses as part of a two year general high school
education. There are about 4,000 students taking courses



related to construction, but since entry requirements are
relatively high, students who have the ability to enter gener-
ally prefer to choose courses in subjects which have a higher
social status than construction. Consequently, construction
courses are often under-enrolled, which is a unique problem.
Universities and other courses in technical institutes are
usually over-subscribed many times, and DHE might well con-
sider reducing entry requirements for construction courses
to a level more appropriate to the trades to be taught.
NA&B reimburses the employer Rs 15 per day for each apprentice, and DOL and
DPI pay their students an allowance of Rs 5 per day. The latter is insuffi-
cient to attract the right calibre of recruits, and even NAB apprentices tend
tc drop out as soon as they have some rudimentary skills in order to get paid
employment. The three departments running courses have constant difficulties
ir, obtaining enough training materials, which seriously hampers the quantity
and quality of training that can be done. In all, the annual output of exist-
ing training facilities is about 6,000 skilled construction workers.
2.02      Traditional apprenticeships under master craftsmen continue to play
a major though diminishing part in supplying new skilled workers (para 1.08),
but results are slow to mature and variable in quality. With the advent of
higher wages for skilled master craftsmen, many of them are now less willing
than they were to devote time to passing on their skills to others, since they
are often employed on some form of piecework basis where income depends on
production. Some master craftsmen have said they would expect to receive a
higher than average wage to teach their trade to others, perhaps reflecting an
understanding that a shortage of skilled workers will tend to keep their
incomes high.
2.03      With the help of the Netherlands Government, the Ministry of Local
Government, Housing and Construction (MLGHC) has set up the Center for Housing
Planning and Building (CHPB) in Colombo as a training center for construction
management. CHPB trains about 40 technical managers annually. Courses are
run at three levels: a four week course, which includes project evaluation,
for senior staff; an eight week course for middle management such as Inspectors
and Superintendents; and three month courses for new recruits to technical
grades. The courses aim to train students in site organisation and management
appropriate to their seniority, without necessarily imparting any detailed
knowledge of construction trades. Students are required to acquire a specified
amount of work experience before they are awarded a certificate for the course.
B. Construction Companies
2.04      With the exception of a few large projects which were handled by
expatriate firms, the situation was such until 1977 that domestic construction
companies had spare capacity in spite of their rundown condition. About a
third of construction work was carried out by public sector organisations such
as the Department of Highways, the Department of Buildings, the River Valleys
Development Board, the State Engineering Corporation or the Irrigation Depart-
ment. These bodies still exist and are active, but it has become government



-6-
practice to give increasing amounts of the extra construction work now being
undertaken by public investment, especially building, to be done by the private
sector. It was considered that private companies could expand more easily and
would be less inhibited by wage controls and trade union activities than would
state organizations, who could then concentrate on planning, design and super-
vision of construction works. In practice, the public sector corporations
and departments often lacked managerial expertise.  Work done by private
companies for government has frequently increased in cost due to poor planning
and design or suffered delays due to inefficient contract administration on
the part of the government organization concerned (para 4.15).
2.05      There are no large domestic private construction companies in Sri
Lanka at present, although a number are in the process of expanding. There
are about six, each with an annual capacity of up to Rs 100 million (US$5.5
million approximately), plus perhaps twenty more with capacities of about
Rs 30 million (US$1.7 million) a year each. About half of all construction
work is presently undertaken by small family firms, by self-employed workers
or, in the case of low cost traditional houses, by the investors themselves.
It is estimated that private contractors of all sizes carried out about
Rs 2,400 million worth of construction work in 1979, which represents about
75% of all construction work in Sri Lanka. Private companies tend to concen-
trate on buildings, water supply and small sewage projects for which little
heavy plant or equipment is required. They now undertake about 90 per cent
of all building work and a smaller, but increasing proportion of small irriga-
tion, sewage and other civil works. Domestic contractors have so far actively
responded to the rising demand for their services. They are unlikely to con-
tinue to do so, however, unless they can foresee a continued level of future
demand, and unless the existing constraints associated with the availability
of materials, equipment, credit, skilled manpower and managerial ability are
eased.
2.06      GOSL has foreseen and accepted the fact that it will be necessary
to import substantial amounts of construction materials, particularly timber,
cement and steel and virtually all construction equipment, and has relaxed
import controls to make such imports possible. Although it would be possible
to increase domestic production of cement, this could not be done rapidly
enough to meet the maximum demand, expected in 1982. Construction industry
imports will place a heavy burden on Colombo port, but the port authorities
believe they can handle the projected load if the immediate port area can be
kept clear of accumulated cargoes. More difficult to overcome are the short-
ages of several domestically produced materials which cannot reasonably be
imported, such as sand, aggregate and bricks. There are, however, signs that
production of these items is increasing, which will be assisted by the Small
and Medium Industries projects and the International Finance Corporation's
(IFC) equipment leasing company (para 3.02).
2.07      Past import controls, the construction industry's recently depressed
state and its present concentration on small, labor intensive works all mean
that most contractors have little heavy equipment, and hence scanty knowledge
of its correct use. Companies have generally been unable to raise sufficient
credit to acquire heavy equipment, although GOSL's practice of allowing an
advance payment on government contracts of about 20% of contract value on
signature of the agreement has helped contractors to buy smaller items of



- 7 -
plant. Under the first Small and Medium Industry Project (942-CE), construc-
tion contractors are eligible for fixed investment and working capital loans
of up to Rs 1 million (US$55,000). While few contractors have so far availed
themselves of this facility, it is expected that their numbers will grow, par-
ticularly since additional funds will be available under a follow-up project
(para 3.02). IFC has recently cooperated with a Japanese equipment hire com-
pany to set up the Lanka Orient Leasing Company (LOLC), which will make long
term leases of heavy equipment to the industry, thus avoiding the need for
contractors to tie up large amounts of capital for equipment at the start of
contracts. Although equipment financing by LOLC is not expected to exceed 5%
of total equipment needs in the country over the next years, it will neverthe-
less help ease the constraints of equipment available to contractors. During
1981, IDA plans the appraisal of a DFC/industrial project which would include
assistance to the construction industry (para 3.02). It is expected that
these measures together will nlelp to alleviate the present equipment and
credit shortage in the industry.
2.08       In the medium term, the shortages of skilled labor for construction
work (para 1.06) will affect foreign contractors, who will have to be used for
the larger contracts over the next few years. They may be able to overcome
the shortage to some extent, and at high cost, by itnporting highly skilled
labor, which domestic firms would find it difficult to do. Over the long term,
the market for domestic contractors is likely to grow, although not so dramati-
cally as during the next few years. If there is to be sustained economic
growth, Sri Lanka must continue to invest in housing, commercial building,
roads, sewerage, water supply, irrigation and power supply, in which case
there would be ample need for significant numbers of additional skilled labor.
A concentrated program of training to improve the supply of skilled labor and
management will help the domestic industry to meet its long term demand, and
to alleviate the shortages that will be present in t:he medium term. Estimates
of medium-term labor requirements in the construction industry (Table 5), the
estimates of numbers which can be trained over the following years, and the
forecast increased demand for improved construction (para 2.12) indicate that
any degree of over-training is unlikely.
C.   The Construction Consortium
2.09      During a temporary revival of the construc:tion industry in the late
1950's, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce mobilised contracting and consulting
resources to undertake urgent government work. Faced with the same situation
again in 1977, the Chamber of Commerce proposed setting up a Sri Lanka Con-
struction Consortium (SLCC), to include all interest:ed domestic consultants
and contractors, which would carry out contracts for government work at nego-
tiated rates. SLCC asked for, and obtained, GOSL's agreement to advances of
20% of the contract amourt to help contractors' precarious liquidity position.
In February 1979, the Secretary of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce resigned in
order to become full time Secretary of SLCC, which in September 1979 was
placed under the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka.
SLCC now includes about 30 consultancy and 350 medium and small contracting
firms, and about 200 of the latter have been prequalified by SLCC for the type
and size of work they are able to undertake.



-8-
2.10      SLCC's main activity has been housing, principally on a turnkey
basis. It has been entrusted with the design and construction, or the construc-
tion only, of over 6,000 units of housing throughout Sri Lanka, plus 4,000
units of low-cost housing and a further 4,000 units of housing island-wide for
public servants. It has also been given the construction of a Rs 100 million
hospital, food stores and school extensions, and was called in to help repair
cyclone damage at Batticaloa. SLCC has an interest in training to make up for
the exodus to the Middle East, and encourages on-the-job training for NAB
sponsored apprentices among its member firms.
2.11      SLCC undoubtedly fulfilled a useful function at a time when the
industry was run-down and disorganized, enabling GOSL to proceed quickly with
its program without having to revise bidding and contract procedures, as would
otherwise have been necessary. SLCC probably still has a role to play in
assisting small contractors, unused to bidding procedures, to take their part
in GOSL's Development Program by undertaking small contracts alone or as sub-
contractors on larger works. GOSL has appreciated that it would be advisable
to return to the accepted practice of competitive bidding for large contracts,
and for small contracts as soon as sufficient small contractors are conversant
with bidding procedures and are able to estimate costs reasonably efficiently,
and has accordingly reintroduced competitive bidding as the normal practice
from February 1981.
D.   Government Institutions Concerned with Construction
2.12      With the trend for GOSL to put more of its construction work out
to private companies rather than doing the work through its own agencies
(para 2.04), a number of ministries and departments have become clients of
the construction industry. Contract documents, specifications and contract
procedures varied from one agency to another and as capacity constraints
appeared, ministries have found themselves in competition for available con-
struction resources. In an effort to improve the situation, GOSL set up in
1979 the Secretaries' Committee for the Construction Industry (SCCI) composed
of the Secretaries of the various Ministries and Department concerned with
construction works, under the chairmanship of the Secretary MLGHC. SCCI
has made a start towards standardization of contract documents and procedures
and, with the help of a UNDP-financed expert, is producing specifications and
Codes of Practice for the industry, suitable for use throughout government
and for private work. Under an International Development Association (IDA)
credit, similar work is being done by consultants in the Department of High-
ways for road and bridge works. Standardization of contract procedures and
specifications, backed by effective quality control and supervision of works,
would be a significant factor in improving the standard of construction work
in Sri Lanka. GOSL has agreed that standardization of contract procedures,
specifications and contract documents for government work will be reached by
June 30, 1983. In order to further encourage improved quality of construc-
tion, an understanding has been reached with GOSL that the relevant government
departments and ministries will include in construction contracts measures to
improve work site supervision and enforce existing regulations and codes con-
cerning the construction industry.



- 9 -
III.   BANK GROUP LENDING IN RELATED SECTORS
3.0)1     To date, the Bank Group's involvement in the Sri Lanka construction
industry has mainly been via civil works and other construction, as components
-f agriculture, transport and water supply projects. The Second Mahaweli Ganga
;velopment Project (Credit 701-CE, 1977, US$19 million) includes construction
of major irrigation works, land settlement and access roads. The Tree Crop
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 818-CE, 1978, US$21 million) has a component
for improved housing, while the Kuranegela Integrated Rural Development Project
(Credit 891-CE, 1979, US$20 million) includes the rehabilitation and construc-
tion of rural roads and water pipelines. The Road Maintenance Project (Credit
900-CE, 1979, US$16.5 million), mentioned in para 2.12, includes the strength-
ening, repair or widening of about 30 bridges and rehabilitation with selec-
tive widening of some primary roads, and the Second Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 1041, 1980, US$30 million) involves construction of treatment
plants, a pumping station, transmission mains and a reservoir. All of these
projects are in progress and risk experiencing delays and difficulties due to
the capacity constraints of the construction industry.
3.02      The Bank Group is currently directly supporting the industry through
two projects. The Small and Medium Industries Project (Credit 942-CE, 1979,
currently under implementation, US$16 million) includes financing and technical
assistance for small scale industries associated with the construction industry,
including construction material suppliers as well as construction contractors.
As of September 30, 1980, commercial loans refinanced under this project
amounted to Rs 22.5 million for construction material suppliers and Rs 1.3 mil-
lion for construction contractors. IFC's investment of Rs 4.5 million (about
US$250,000) in LOLC in 1980 has assisted the establishment of this leasing
coumpany, which is expected to write leases for about US$43 million total value
in its first five years, about a third of which is expected to be for construc-
tion equipment (para 2.07). In 1981, IDA plans the appraisal of a DFC indus-
trial project which would include three major elements: credit and other
services for small and medivz industries, including small contractors and
building materials firms; finance for larger contractors; and funding to
selected public sector enterprises, which may involve a focus on building
material concerns. Under this proposed project, at least US$5 million would
be specifically earmarked for the construction industry.
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.   Background
4.01      When setting up the 1979-83 Medium Term Development Plan, GOSL
realized that the capacity of the domestic construction industry would have
to be increased to carry out the work called for in the Plan. In response to
this situation, a December 1978 IDA mission discussed with GOSL a program of
technical assistance and sector work leading to a possible project designed to
increase the output of the construction industry. During subsequent identi-
fication and preparation missions, GOSL and IDA agreed that a project aiming



- 10 -
to improve the function of the construction industry should concentrate on
specific aspects where significant improvement might be possible with the
resources available. In view of the multisectoral characteristics of the
construction industry, it was decided that a possible project would be con-
ceived within the scope of a broader strategy. Since other IDA projects
under preparation or implementation (para 3.02) were designed to increase
the availability of equipment, credit and materials, it was decided that the
proposed project would concentrate on increasing the supply of skilled manpower
and management expertise for the industry. In June 1980, GOSL retained the
British Council (BC) as lead consultants to provide technical assistance for
project preparation; BC in turn availed itself of the services of a construc-
tion industry specialist of the Construction Industry Training Board (CITB)
of the United Kingdom. The project was appraised by IDA in June 1980 with
the assistance of the above consultants.
B. Objectives
4.02      The project objective is to increase the supply of trained manpower
and to improve the level of technical management expertise so that the con-
struction industry can better meet the demands of Sri Lanka's investment
program.  The project is designed to:
(a) establish a unified modular training system for construction
related trades which will supply the industry with significant
numbers of workers trained to limited, but recognized, skill
levels in the shortest possible time. This process will both
improve the productivity and earning capacity of existing
construction workers and provide job opportunities for new
entrants from poor rural and urban backgrounds;
(b) improve the use and maintenance of plant and equipment by
training operators and mechanics;
(c) increase the effectiveness of work planning and supervision
by training middle and upper management in contract procedures,
site management and quality control;
(d) strengthen the agencies and institutions involved in train-
ing for the construction industry; and
(e) improve methods and procedures relating to the industry.
C. Description
4.03      The Project consists of:
(a) training for about 45,000 new entrants in basic construction
skills to a standard where they will be able to carry out
simple building craft tasks under supervision;



- 11 -
(b)  training for about 9,600 experienced conStruction workers
to up-grade their existing skills;
(c)  training for about 1,800 mechanical equipment operators and
mechanics in correct operation and maintenance procedures;
(d)  training for about 900 work supervisors who have little
or no site experience in simple procedures of supervision
and quality control;
(e)  training for about 80 experienced senior works managers
in improved work planning and management;
(f)  technical assistance to establish and run the training
programs and to advise GOSL on technical and policy issues
concerning the construction industry;
(g)  supply of equipment and materials necessary for
training.
The numbers estimated for training are indicative targets which will be
reviewed periodically during project implementation (para 4.28). The above
f:igures have been derived on the basis of (i) the forecast manpower requirements
in the construction industry, involving a 15% p.a. growth of the workforce over
the next years (Table 5); (ii) the current distribution of trades and skills
in the workforce; (iii) an estimate of the numbers that may realistically be
trained with the resources available under the project; and (iv) the expected
increase in demand for an improved quality of construction (para 2.12). As
planned, the project will set up a training organization, which will rely as
muLch as practicable on existing training facilities, and will have an adequate
back-up of technical assistance, equipment and materials.   It is estimated
that annual training under the project will grow from about 8,000 in 1981 to
21,000 in 1984, compared with the current annual output of about 6,000 at
existing facilities. Training under the project will supply about 57,000, or
60% of the expected cumulative increase in the workforce up-to 1984. The
shortfall plus natural wastage and continued emigration of skilled workers
to the Middle East will have to be made up by use of foreign contractors (as
is being done in Mahaweli projects), traditional apprenticeship under master
craftsmen, returning emigrants, and/or further revisions of the development
program.
D. Training Principles
4.04      The project will provide training for the principal skills which
are now deficient in the construction industry, leaving minor and specialist
deficiencies to be made up by other courses in exisiting training centers.
Training will be on the modular system whereby trainees can progress from
one level to a higher level via a series of short courses interspersed with
periods of job experience. Coupled with the proposted system of trade testing
and registration, this will help to build up a recognized career pattern in
the industry which is now lacking. Implicit in the proposed arrangement is



- 12 -
a unified standard for entry to and passing courses, plus uniform course con-
tent throughout the country, irrespective of which organization may be carrving
out training. GOSL is actively committed to achieving such standardization in
the field of training, and agreement has been reached with GOSL that, by
June 30, 1982, selection criteria, training curricula and methods, trade
testing, certification and registration of construction workers, supervisors
and specialists will conform to acceptable standards, applicable to all
construction training carried out by government. Certificates of training
will thus come to have a recognized value in denoting what performance may
be expected from the holder. Details of the modular system as applied to the
construction industry are shown in Charts 1 and 2 and in Annex 1. In order
to achieve rapid implementation of the project, an understanding has been
reached with GOSL that, by October 1, 1981, standardized trainee selection
criteria will be agreed with IDA and applied to all project training.
4.05      The project will use existing training facilities (para 2.01) as
much as possible for off-site training. By using shorter courses, the drop-
out rate should decrease, and wastage will be reduced by introducing aptitude
tests before admittance, while supplying training materials under the project
(para 4.20) will make training more effective. The use of the existing facil-
ities may mean the disruption of some existing courses. However, more effi-
cient use of these facilities will produce quicker results and benefits to
the industry than attempting to establish new training centers. On-site train-
ing will take place at on-going works sites where some useful output will
result, especially in the case of operators' training. Several suitable sites
have been identified, and major contractors have indicated their willingness
to participate in on-site training (para 4.12). Agreement has been reached
that GOSL will make existing training facilities and staff available for
project implementation, and will adjust the training courses relating to
the construction industry in a manner satisfactory to the Association. An
understanding has been reached that the Project Cell (para 4.24) will, by
October 1, 1981 and annually thereafter, prepare and agree with the Associa-
tion an implementation schedule, including a timetable for the use of facil-
ities and staff and a list of training materials, for the next twelve months
(paras 4.08, 4.11, 4.14 and 4.15, and Table 6).
4.06      To obtain maximum benefit from short training courses, it is import-
ant that the courses concentrate upon providing the trainee with the essential
skills needed at each level. To achieve this, each job for which training is
proposed is analyzed objectively and a job specification drawn up which sets
out what the worker must be able to do correctly at any stage. Using the job
specifications, training standards are developed which will include time and
output quality requirements. These standards lead to criteria for aptitude
tests that will be used to select trainees who are most likely to benefit from
training. Course curricula are developed from the job analyses, which detail
the objectives to be achieved and the method of training in detail, although
leaving instructors with some freedom in presentation.  To achieve maximum
advantage from such a planned system of instruction, it must be allied with
a recognized trade testing procedure, with certification for those that pass
and central registration of skills in the industry so that skilled manpower
can be monitored for overall manpower planning. Special efforts will be made
to ensure that the course content and the training methods effectively provide
the skills required by the construction industry. Understandings have been



- 13 -
reached with GOSL that on government work, contractors will be required to
complete log books of trainees detailing their work experience (paras 4.09,
4.11 and 4.13), and that on major works the proportion of registered labor
employed will be taken into account in prequalification.
4.07      Recruitment will be in response to public advertisement in the case
of new entrants or from within the industry otherwise. In view of the high
amount of unemployment and underemployment, particularly among school leavers,
:it is expected that there will be a good response to advertisement if good
employment prospects are offered after only a short course of training. Con-
t:ractors have expressed interest in having their staff trained, providing
courses are short, and SLCC has offered its services to publicize training
opportunities in the industry and coordinate applications from employers.
COSL has agreed that trainee selection will be undertaken according to cri-
t:eria acceptable to IDA, and an understanding has been reached that such
criteria will encourage the participation of women in training courses, in
proportions at least similar to those already in existence in the industry.
Use of existing training centers throughout Sri Lanka (Map 15286) will help
to achieve a representative geographic and ethnic mix among those tiained.
(a) Artisan Training
4.08      Artisan training is to be carried out at two levels, basic training
for unskilled labor and advanced training to upgrade existing skills. In
order to deal with the numbers of trainees involved (about 45,000 at basic
and about 9,600 at advanced level), all suitable existing resources must be
used. These are the DHE technical institutes, the DOL permanent and mobile
centers and the DRI carpentry training courses (Table 6). Masonry and car-
pentry courses provided at those facilities will bes adjusted during project
implementation as required by resource constraints. No facilities now exist
for training bar benders and steel fixers, and site training is proposed for
600 over three years at mobile centers set up for the purpose. Similarly
for plumbers, it is proposed to institute training at technical institutes.
Electricians' training will be handled in the firsi: year at the two DOL
permanent centers near Colombo, expanding their capacity thereafter to handle
the additional numbers required. Overall, by using existing facilities as
much as possible, there would be a loss of about 3,200 artisans per year
trained under present methods, and a gain of about 16,500 per year trained
under the project, about 20% at advanced levels.
4.09      Basic skill training will be for eight weeks, after which the
unskilled entrant will be able to carry out simple tasks of his trade under
supervision. After this basic training, the trainee will be given a Log
Book showing what he has been taught and giving a guide for further on-site
training. Assuming this is given by the employer, after ten months on-site
experience, the basic skill artisan will qualify for the next module of train-
ing in his craft.  Advanced training modules will iollow the same pattern of
eight weeks off-site training followed by job related experience. By attend-
ing and passing a number of modules, the artisan can become fully proficient
in all aspects of his trade.
(b) Equipment Operators' Training
4.10      Due to improper operation and maintenance plus a lack of spare parts,
the overall availability of mechanical equipment in Sri Lanka is only about



- 14 -
50%. Hence, any improvement that can be made in operation and maintenance
will materially increase the output of the equipment fleet and hence of the
construction industry. Equipment operators have traditionally been recruited
from among the "greasers" or helpers who have obtained some elementary knowl-
edge of a machine and its operation, but this does not produce operators who
can get the best results from a machine. Greasers and helpers may continue
to provide a recruiting ground for operators, but others may be equally sound
material, since anyone with the ability to drive and having some mechanical
aptitude can probably be trained to be a satisfactory operator. Before train-
ing, aptitude tests will be employed to make sure that trainees have the
required manipulative skills and hand and eye coordination, and only those who
pass these tests well will be trained on the more sophisticated machines.
4.11      Training for heavy equipment operators will be on-site for a 12-
week period, following which the trainee will be able to operate one or two
types of heavy equipment safely. Efficiency will increase with on-site experi-
ence. Based on a broad assessment of the industry's needs, proportions of
operators required for the different types of heavy equipment are estimated
as: roller drivers - 42%; tractor-dozer operators - 16%; scraper operators -
11%; grader operators - 11%; and excavator operators - 20%. There is also an
urgent need for small plant operators for items such as compressors, concrete
mixers, compacting equipment, pneumatic tools and power saws. Such training,
to include instruction on maintenance, will be done over a period of four
weeks. Four week training is also proposed for truck drivers in correct
operation and maintenance of dump and service trucks. To supplement the
courses now given by DOL, eight week courses are planned for agricultural
tractor drivers. Details of the training proposed for all types of operators
are shown in Table 7. At the completion of training, each trainee will take
a trade test administered by NAB, and those successful will proceed to normal
employment. The operator's Log Book will show the type of equipment operated,
the maintenance record and the types of work done. After ten months of satis-
factory site experience, the operators will qualify for a certificate of full
competence and registration with NAB.
4.12      The on-site training proposed for operators can have a useful end
product, and arrangements have been made to take over portions of suitable
contracts for production training. Although outputs will be low, it is esti-
mated that work to a value of about US$1 million can be usefully completed
during the project, and it is intended that appropriate payment shall be made
,for work done according to specifications. Suitable sites exist at Karindi
Oya for heavy equipment training and in Colombo for small plant training,
and in each case the main contractor is willing to allow the project to carry
out work on site as sub-contractor. Suitable contractual arrangements must
be concluded between the main contractors and the Project Cell, acting as
sub-contractor, in each case. Understanding has been reached with GOSL that
suitable contractual arrangements will apply for site training of this nature,
with the provision that Special Conditions will be prepared for each contract
site as required, and subject to the agreement of GOSL legal authorities.
It is expected that the contractual arrangements, shown in draft in Annex 5,
will follow a standard main contractor/sub-contractor format, with the main
contractor being obliged to reimburse the subcontractor (the Project Cell)
for work satisfactorily completed according to specification.



- 15 -
(c) Training for Equipment Mechanics
4.13      The most successful form of training is that which allows for off-
site training, followed by planned experience under supervision on site.
Mechanics training will be for 24 weeks to give a reasonable level of compe-
tence, and training will begin at the now disused training center in the
Department of Machinery and Equipment main workshops at Ratmalana, Colombo.
There will six courses per year with 20 trainees on each course, and GOSL has
assured the Association they will make available suitable old machines for
training purposes. Following this, training will continue at Kirindi Oya,
Udawalawa or elsewhere where operators' training is being done so that trainee
mechanics can take part in equipment maintenance on a work site, but under
supervision. If this cannot be arranged for all trainees, at the end of their
spell in Ratmalana, trainees will be issued with Log Books for employers to
record work experience and competence over a period of at least six months.
On satisfactory completion of on-site training, whether under the project or
not, trainees will be eligible for a certificate of competence and registra-
tion with NAB.
(d)  Technical Site Supervision Training
4.14      A characteristic of the construction industry in Sri Lanka is that
there is no clear career progression from a new intake to the industry to the
le!vels of senior, or even middle management (para 1.09). It is unlikely this
pattern can be changed quickly, and training is therefore necessary to ensure
that entrants to the industry from technical training courses as middle level
site managers are given a proper practical orientation before starting work.
It. cannot be expected that fully competent site supervisors can be turned out
inL a short time, but within a period of eight weeks of off-site training, it
is possible to point out the principal relationships between theory and prac-
tice which site supervisors need to appreciate. It is intended to run site
supervision training at, and in cooperation with, CHPB, using their facilities
augmented as necessary for the greater intake. By running three streams with
20 trainees in each stream, it is intended to train 300 per year, as compared
with the 180 a year now trained to a similar standard.
(e)  Management and Planning Training
4.15      GOSL's recent shift in emphasis from force account to contract work
has highlighted a shortage of management and planning expertise in government
(para 2.04), while placing an extra requirement for contract planning on the
private sector. There is not so much an absolute shortage of engineers in
the country as a shortage of experienced engineers who have successfully dealt
with the problems of running works efficiently, and the project aims to improve
this situation. Although works planning is an office job, it demands an ex-
tensive knowledge of construction methods and practice, and trainees will
probably, but not necessa-ily, be graduate engineers with some years of experi-
ence. CHPB can play a leading role in this training, and already trains 40
planners a year. It is proposed to double this at least, and since courses
retquire careful preparation to be effective, the increase is not expected to
take place until the second year of the project. Off-site training should be
re!inforced by related experience on site under supervision so that the lessons
of poor planning and bad site management can be pointed out. Work sites used
under the project for operators' training will be used for this purpose, and



- 16 -
contractors and some government organizations have expressed a desire t^ be
involved. With their help, it may be possible to extend the numbers trained
well above the figures estimated in Table 7, which gives a summary of numbers
to be trained of all grades, by year. Details of all training courses are
shown in Table 8.
Technical Assistance
4.16       To set up the systems, train local staff and supervise the project
a significant amount of technical assistance is necessary. GOSL has requested,
and IDA has agreed, that BC shall undertake this work subject to the completion
of a contract acceptable to the Association, and preparatory work is being
done under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (para 4.22). A total of
about 430 man months of expatriate technical assistance is proposed. If, as
anticipated, existing facilities are used for masonry and carpentry training
(para 4.08), the present staffs of instructors can be used with suitable re-
training for the new course structures. However, there will be need for 21
course inspectors, plus four experts. As there are now no courses in plumbing
nor in bar bending and steel fixing, instructors will have to be recruited,
and for the extension of electrical training at the DOL centers, extra instruc-
tors will be required after the first year. An expert in plumbing and one in
electrical work will be provided for 18 months each; bar bending and steel
fixing will be supervised by one expert part-time.
4.17       Training for equipment operators on site will need two experts
plus one for small plant, as this may take place at several sites removed
from the main equipment training site at Karindi Oya. As operators' training
is almost an individual instruction, five senior instructors and 21 instructors
are proposed. Mechanics training will be supervised by the small plant train-
ing expert assisted by six instructors to carry out off-site training at
Ratmalana and monitor on-site experience. Two experts are proposed to organise
and supervise training in site supervision and works planning, plus three
instructors and one part-time, all to augment the present resources of CHPB.
4.18       Terms of Reference for technical assistance have been agreed with
GOSL (Annex 2). Details of staff and cost estimates of training are shown
in Table 9 and on Chart No. 3. The technical assistance team will include
two senior members directly concerned with the implementation of the project
(para 4.24): a construction industry specialist who will assist the Secre-
taries' Committee for the Construction Industry (SCCI) in technical and policy
matters; and a senior training manager who will assist the National Training
Committee for the Construction Industry (NTCCI) in the planning of the entire
training operation. Efforts will be made by GOSL during project implementa-
tion to attract Sri Lankans who have emigrated to Middle East, who would then
be in a position to take over from the expatriate technical assistance team
the responsibility for the training program after 1984.
Training Equipment
4.19      Details of the mechanical equipment to be supplied under the project
to carry out operators' training are given in Table 10. Contrary to the usual
aim to standardize, models and makes will be selected, so far as possible, to
represent those in most common use in the country. Within the funds available,



- 17 -
it: is not possible to acquire all the types of plant on which training should
be given, and assurances have been received that GOSL will provide other items
oi- equipment on loan as they may be available, so that the extent of training
can be increased. Even without any extra equipment from GOSL, the equipment to
be provided under the project will form a simple construction unit able to
carry out a range of operations for heavy earthmoving and building works.
Approximately 17% extra is allowed on the capital costs of equipment to pur-
chase spares. Daily and minor equipment maintenance will be done by trainees
operators under supervision; heavier maintenance will be done by trainee
mechanics, also under supervision or, in the case of major overhaul, work will
be done in main GOSL mechanical workshops. The arrangements proposed have
been discussed with GOSL and appropriate assurances received.
Materials for the Project
4.20      A major constraint to effective training in technical institutes and
training centers has been the almost complete lack of any training materials
(para 2.01), and the project will make these available for all the training
proposed (Table 11), including fuel and lubricants, hand tools, building
materials for aptitude testing, artisans' training and trade testing and
oi-fice supplies. Procurement of training materials will be coordinated by
the Project Cell (para 4.24), which will arrange for procurement according to
st:andard GOSL procedures acceptable to the Association.  Consumable materials
will be reimbursed on an agreed scale according to the number of trainees and
il: will be a part of the duties of inspectors and the technical assistance
team to check that materials are used correctly in the course of training.
A-;surances have been received that storage, distribution, use and control
oi- materials will be carried out as part of the duties of the Project Cell.
A:Llowances to Trainees
4 21      Trainees under full time instruction will be paid an allowance set
at: the minimum level necessary to attract sufficient entrants, and calculated
with reference to current wage rates. It is expected that these allowances
will not exceed about two-thirds of the wage the trainee would receive if
fully employed, without training. No allowances will be paid to those under-
going training in planning and management, since they will normally be in
employment and their employer will continue their salaries during training.
In the case of any trainees at other levels who are in employment and who
are trained at their employer's request, no training allowance will be paid.
The levels of the allowances will be revised as necessary, during project
imaplementation.  Estimates of the costs of allowances and of salaries for
local instructors and inspectors are given in Table 9, and the appropriate
agreements have been reached with GOSL on the allowances and their proper
control under the project.
Use of the Project Preparation Facility
4.22      In view of the urgency of commencing work to increase the construc-
tion industry's capacity as quickly as possible, and because of the amount of
detailed work that is required to arrange course curricula, training sites,
materials supply and equipment purchase, GOSL requested, and IDA approved,



- 18 -
advances under PPF P0128 up to US$280,000 equivalent. The PPF is to be used
to reimburse GOSL for the costs of approximately 25 man-months of consultancy
services currently being provided by BC to GOSL in order to develop training
curricula, trade test standards and recruitment methods, recruit local instruc-
tors, initiate recruitment of trainees, select sites for equipment operator
training and establish an accounting system for the project. The PPF is also
to be used to cover costs of training local instructors and purchasing the
necessary materials to be used in this process.
E.  Cost Estimates
4.23      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.0 million equiv-
alent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$10.8 million, and including taxes
and duties of US$2.6 million. The following is a summary of costs, and full
details are contained in Table 12:
Rs million               US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
I.  Equipment and Tools        2.3    43.6    45.9       0.1     2.4      2.5
II.  Training Materials        50.0    33.1    83.1       2.8     1.8      4.6
III. Staff Costs and
Trainee Allowances        52.9       -     52.9      3.0      -      3.0
IV.  Technical Assistance      14.8    59.2    74.0       0.8     3.3     4.1
Total           120.0   135.9   255.9      6.7      7.5    14.2
Total Quantity
Contingency               12.1    11.3    23.4      0.7      0.6     1.3
Total Price
Contingency               76.3    47.3   123.6      4.2      2.7     6.9
Total with
Contingencies          208.4   194.5   402.9    11.6    10.8    22.4
Taxes and Duties          47.5       -     47.5     2.6       -      2.6
255.9           450.4    14.2              25.0
Quantity contingencies of 5% have been allowed for equipment and 10% for all
other items. Price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of the
following price level forecasts: for equipment, 10.5% in 1980 and 9% in 1981
(international inflation for equipment); for training materials, staff costs
and allowances, 25% in 1980 and 1981, 15% in 1982, 12% in 1983 and 10% in 1984
(domestic inflation in Sri Lanka); and for technical assistance, 13.5% in
1980/81, 8.5% in 1981/82 and 7.5% in 1982/83 and 1983/84 (domestic inflation



- 19 -
in the United Kingdom). Estimates for equipment and tools are based on July
1.980 prices CIF Colombo plus domestic handling and transport costs. Materials
for training and testing are estimated on 1980 prices and on the basis of the
estimated numbers to be trained. Staff salaries and trainee allowances are
based on wage rates within the industry in 1980, with an additional allowance
ior staff salaries to allow the project to employ high quality staff. The
cost estimates for the expatriate technical assistance (para 4.16) are based
on prevailing man-month rates for comparable staff from UK consultants. About
4s30 man-months will be provided under the project at a total cost of about
US$4.1 million. Average man-month costs are expected to be in the range
IIS$9,000-$11,000, with an average of US$9,500. Anticipated revenue from use-
ful work done during equipment operator training has not been included in the
financial projections, but has been taken into account in estimating economic
bene fits.
F. Project Implementation
4r.24     Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of MLGHC
t:hrough the SCCI acting as a steering committee, assisted by the construction
industry specialist of the technical assistance team. SCCI will be responsible
for the overall operations of the industry in the public sector and in the pri-
vate sector so far as government work is concerned. The day to day administra-
t:ion of the project will be carried out by a Project Cell set up by MLGHC under
an experienced, full-time Project Director, whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Association.
The Project Cell will receive specific guidance from SCCI on policy and plan-
ning, and from NTCCI on training. The staff of the Project Cell will include
(1ualified accountants able to monitor and control expenditures, which will be
subject to external audit. The Project Cell will be responsible for:
(a) preparation of budgets covering supply of materials and
payment of salaries and allowances in collaboration with
the various implementing agencies;
(b) release of funds and payment of project expenditures;
(c) maintenance of consolidated project accounts;
(d) preparation of applications to IDA for reimbursements;
(e) monthly progress review with each of the implementing
agencies;
(f) liaison with SCCI and the technical assistance team leaders
on all project matters;
(g) implementation of training for equipment operators and
mechanics; ane
(h) procurement of training materials.
A suitably staffed Project Cell has been set up together with the necessary
institutional arrangements and facilities for its operations. Understandings
have been reached on the Terms of Reference of the Project Cell (Annex 3),



- 20 -
and that the Project Cell will prepare detailed programs and schedules (para
4.05). NTCCI has been established as a sub-committee of SCCI and will be
responsible for the overall planning of training in the construction industry
sector, and for setting up standards for admissions, curricula and trade
testing. NTCCI will include members nominated by SCCI representing concerned
GOSL agencies, and will be assisted by the senior training manager of the
technical assistance team. Draft Terms of Reference for NTCCI are included in
Annex 4, and understandings have been reached with GOSL that these are appro-
priate for its activities.
4.25      Six different Ministries of GOSL will be concerned with project
implementation. Understanding with GOSL has been reached that the functions
to be undertaken by such institutions, insofar as the project is concerned,
will be as outlined below:
1.   Ministry of Local Government,
Housing and Construction (MLGHC)
(a)  Secretaries Committee for the          - act as a steering committee
Construction Industry (SCCI)             for the project.
(b)  Project Cell                           - day-to-day administration and
control of the project; pro-
curement of training materials;
a-d implementation of opera-
tors' and mechanics' training.
(c)  National Training Committee            - act as a sub-committee of
for the Construction                     SCCI responsible for overall
Industry (NTCCI)                         planning of training for the
construction industry sector;
and establishment of standards
for admission, curricula and
trade testing for the industry,
applicable to all training.
(d)  Center for House Planning              - recruit and train technical
and Building (CHPB)                      managers and supervisors.
2.   Ministry of Youth Affairs and Employment
National Apprenticeship Board (NAB)         - administer training at work
sites.
- produce and administer aptitude
and trade tests and introduce
registration of skilled con-
struction workers.
3.   Ministry of Labor
Department of Labor (DOL) training          - train masons, carpenters,
electricians and agricultural
tractor driver/mechanics
4.   Ministry of Higher Education
Department of Higher Education (DHE)   - train masons, carpenters,
Polytechnical and Junior Technical         plumbers and possibly
Institutes                                 electricians.



- 21 -
5.   Ministry of Rural Development
Department of Rural Industries (DRI)   - train carpenters if required.
Training Centers
6.   Ministry of Lands and  Land
Development
(a)  River Valleys Development           - allow the use of suitable con-
Board (RVDB)                          struction sites for equipment
operators' training.
(b)  Department of Machinery             - provide facilities for mechanics'
and Equipment (DME)                   training at Ratmalana workshops.
Coordination among the above institutions will take place through SCCI, which
was set up by GOSL with this end in view (para 2.12). As the project pro-
gresses, other GOSL bodies may become involved if they carry out construction
work which is suitable for training purposes and with the agreement of the
department and main contractor concerned. General cooperation in the project
has been promised, if required, by the Mahaweli Development Board, the Depart-
ment of Highways, the Department of Housing, the Women's Bureau, as well as
SLCC. The Project Cell, assisted by the technical assistance team, will have
responsibility for operators' and mechanics' training, since there is at
present no agency in the public sector carrying out such work.
4.26      The physical implementation of the project is planned to run from
mid-1981 to mid-1984. Using PPF (para 4.22), by the time of credit effective-
niess, the Project Cell will be fully in operation and the mechanics of neces-
sary liaison between the various GOSL Ministries involved will have been
established.Course curricula will have been drafted and discussed and a start
made in recruiting and training local instructors.  Procurement of mechanical
Equipment and materials will have commenced, and the equipment ordered will
be delivered during the first year of the project. Some of the technical
assistance team will arrive under PPF and the balance during the first year.
During Year One, recruitment and training of local staff will be completed
and training will commence in all specialities apart from technical planning
and management, which will commence in Year Two (Table 7). By Year Three,
training will have built up to its maximum, and GOSL should by then have
considered how training can be continued at a comparable level in order to
serve the needs of the industry. The complexity of this project will make
close supervision necessary.
G. Project Monitoring and Reporting
4.27      It is planned within the project to create the capability for GOSL,
working through NAB to:
(a) monitor the recruitment, training and iob placement of
trainees and their progress after course! completion;



- 22 -
(b)  revise and refine selection standards, course curricula
and trade testing in response to this monitoring; and
(c)  use the results of monitoring to expand the training proposed
under the project into an integrated modular system able to
meet the changing demand for skilled construction industry
workers.
Agreement has been reached with GOSL that, by June 30, 1982, NAB will have set
up a monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to IDA able to measure the
qualitative and quantitative impacts of the project, in accordance with the
stated objectives. This will be done by recording such data as training capa-
city, enrollments, aptitude test failure rates, drop-out rates, attendance,
trade test pass rates and subsequent employment and wages for the various
training components. On a random sample of those trained, tracer studies will
be pursued by NAB after training and during employment to assess the possible
impact of training on careers.
4.28      Understanding has been reached with GOSL that reporting requirements
under the project will include the following:
(a)  During the course of project implementation, GOSL will, with
the help of the technical assistance team, submit to IDA
quarterly progress reports;
(b)  In order to keep a degree of flexibility during project
implementation, the Project Cell, with the help of the
technical assistance team, will prepare by June 30, 1982
and again in June 30, 1983, a brief report regarding the
suitability of the training program being carried out
under the project, with recommendations on ways to render
it more relevant to the needs of the construction industry.
GOSL would discuss such reports with IDA and carry out
actions to improve the training program.
(c)  By June 30, 1983 a report on the long-term prospects for
training in the construction industry will be prepared
by the Project Cell with the help of the technical assis-
tance team, and reviewed by GOSL, with appropriate plans
discussed with IDA for the continuation of the training
program after 1984.
(d)  Audit reports of the project sub-accounts and consolidated
account would be prepared according to GOSL procedures (which
have been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory) within
nine months of the end of the fiscal year.
(e) Within six months of project completion, GOSL will submit
to IDA a Project Completion Report on the execution and
initial operation of the project, its costs, the benefits
derived or expected to be derived from it, an assessment
of the performance by the Government and IDA of their
respective obligations under the project, and the extent
to which the purposes of the project have been accomplished.



- 23 -
H. Procurement
4.29      Due to the need to acquire equipment and tools for training which
are representative, so far as possible, of those currently in use in the
country as a whole (para 4.19), the purchase of these items would be on the
basis of competitive bidding limited to international suppliers of closely
specified models and types; it is estimated that this procurement method will
apply to about US$2.5 million worth of equipment asnd tools. In the event
that no models or types can be specified for a particular tool or piece of
equipment, international competitive bidding will be used and a preference
of 15%, or the import tariff amount, whichever is the less, will be allowed
in either case on locally assembled items in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Procurement of materials used in training will be by GOSL prudent shopping
or local competitive bidding practices, which have been reviewed and found
acceptable to the Association. For prudent shopping, wherever possible,
quotations will be received from at least three suppliers. For purchases of
items with an individual value of US$5,000 or less and up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$125,000, local prudent shopping procedures may be
used.  The Association will review all contracts and related documentation
for procurement of goods and services estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
'before an award is made. The Association will review the proposal and rates
of the British Council technical assistance team before their services are
retained.
I. Financing and Disbursement
4.30      The total project cost is estimated at US$25.0 million (including
taxes and duties of US$2.6 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange cost
of US$10.8 million. The proposed credit of US$13.5 million would finance the
full foreign exchange cost and contribute US$2.7 million to local costs, or
about 60% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The remaining
local costs, amounting to US$11.5 million (including-taxes and duties) would
be met by the Government. Disbursements from the proceeds of the credit will
'be made on the following basis:
(a) Equipment: 100% of the cost of foreign expenditures for
directly imported items; 100% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured items; and 80% of the purchase price
of locally procured items;
(b) Training materials: 50% of expenditures; and
(c)  Technical ass.stance:  100% of expenditures.
Disbursement applications will be fully documented. Expenditures made under
PPF (para 4.22) are to be refinanced by the Association in the first year of
the project and will amount to a maximum of US$280),000 equivalent. Table 13
presents the estimated schedule of disbursements.



- 24 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits from the Project
5.01      The proposed project will increase the capacity of Sri Lanka's
construction industry so that it can better meet the needs of the country's
investment program in the public and private sectors. Benefits will accrue
from the project by:
(a)  increasing the number of skilled and semi-skilled workers;
(b)  reducing wage inflation at present caused by the shortage
of skilled workers;
(c)  increasing employment amongst unskilled labor;
(d)  improving income levels of individual workers by providing
them with extra skills;
(e)  increasing returns on invested capital through better use
of equipment and better management;
(f)  improving the quality of finished work; and
(g)  improving the effectiveness and productivity of existing
training facilities.
Emigration of skilled workers after they have acquired about five years of
experience will probably continue at least at present levels, but it will
increase rather than decrease benefits due to the level of remittances to be
expected from emigrant labor (para 1.05).
Project Risks
5.02        The following events, if they took place, would endanger the suc-
cess of the project:
(a)  radical curtailment of existing investment plans;
(b)  shortages or irregular supplies of training materials;
(c)  shortage of recruits for training;
(d)  lack of quality control on works to encourage use of
skills acquired during training;
(e)  rigidity of training schedules so that they do not follow
changes in the demand for skills in the industry.
Resources available permit only about 60% of the total estimated requirement
of labor to be trained (Table 5) and this, with the dilution of skills that
has taken place, means that a reduction of about 70% in the public and private



- 25 -
construction investment plan would have to take place before there would be
serious danger of over-production of skilled workers, quite apart from the
emigration market; in addition, a degree of flexibility has been built in the
project through short-course format and periodic project performance reviews,
so that training targets may be readjusted if needed during project implemen-
tation. Materials required for training form only a small percentage of the
total requirement for the industry, and as a training targets are known,
advance purchases will help to reduce risks of shortages impeding training.
Apart from operators training, where little difficulty in finding recruits
is expected, reduction of intake by about 40% would still leave the project
viable; however, given the high rate of unemployment among school leavers and
the fairly sure prospect of employment following a few weeks of training, plus
allowances during training, it is expected that no shortage of recruits will
take place. One of the reasons for training supervisors and contract managers
is to allow for better quality control in ccastruction undertaken by contractors
or government; the introduction of a monitoring function in NAB (para 4.27)
and tighter site supervision requirements (para 2.12) will help to produce a
feedback on the demand for training.
Project Beneficiaries
5.03      The largest number of direct beneficiaries of the project will be
those trained in basic skills who are mostly from poor backgrounds and tend
at present to be unemployed or underemployed. Others who have some skills
at present and who undergo training will receive increased earnings, while
private contractors and Government departments carrying out construction work
will benefit from better returns on invested capital, due to better utilisation
of equipment and a better supply of skilled labor. Indirectly, the project
will benefit all those who stand to benefit from public and private investment
i.n construction, due to faster and less expensive completion of works.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        Agreement has been reached with GOSL on the following matters:
(a)  standardization of contract procedures, specifications
and contract documents for government work by June 30,
1983 (para 2.12);
(b)  standardization, by June 30, 1982, for all construction
training carried out by government, of selection criteria,
training curricula and methods, trade testing, certifica-
tion and registration (para 4.04);
(c)  existing training facilities and the staff thereof to be
made available for training under the project, and training
courses related to the construction industry to be adjusted
in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05);
(d)  scale of trainee allowances to be paid end criteria for
their revision during project implementation (para 4.21);
and



-26 -
(e)  establishment, by June 30, 1982, of a project monitoring and
evaluation system in NAB, satisfactory to the Association
(para 4.27).
6.02      Understandings have been reached with GOSL on the following matters:
(a)  GOSL will cause relevant government departments and minis-
tries to include in their construction contracts, measures
to improve work site supervision and enforce existing
regulations and codes concerning the construction industry
(para 2.12);
(b)  GOSL will, by October 1, 1981, agree to standardized trainee
selection criteria and apply them for all project training
(para 4.04);
(c)  that the Project Cell will, by October 1, 1981, and annually
thereafter, prepare and agreed with the Association on an
implementation schedule, including a timetable for the use
of facilities and staff, and a list of training materials
for the next twelve months (para 4.05).
(d)  contractors doing work for GOSL will be required to com-
plete trainee log books; and that the employment of a
minimum proportion of registered labor will be taken into
account in prequalification of contractors (para 4.06);
(e)  trainee selection criteria will encourage the participation
of women in training courses (para 4.07);
(f)  suitable contractual arrangements for on-site training,
particularly regarding the General Conditions of Contract,
and with the appropriate Special Conditions will be pre-
pared for each contract, as required (para 4.12);
(g)  Terms of Reference of the Project Cell and the NTCCI (para 4.24);
(h)  functions to be undertaken by GOSL bodies concerned with
project implementation (para 4.25); and
(i)  details of project reporting requirements, including audit
reports of proiect accounts (para 4.28).
6.03      The following matters have been discussed and the appropriate
assurances received from GOSL:
(a)  use of available GOSL equipment from Karindi Oya, Ratmalana
and Udawalawa, for training and major maintenance of project
equipment (paras 4.13 and 4.19); and
(b)  arrangements for storage, distxix'utiou, use andA cQontvol of
training materials (para 4.20).
6.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$13.5 million on standard terms to the Government of Sri Lanka.



-27-
Table 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Trends in the Construction Industry
Net Cumulative
Value Added 1/           Value Added  2I             Value Added                                  Emigration of
Construction Industry    Construction Industry    Construction Industry    Construction            Construction Workers
at current prices          at 1970 prices             as a perce tage        Employment 3/         to the Middle East 4
Year           (Rs sillion)  _             s million)                   of GDP?%)    _    (1000  ersons)          (1000 persons)
1971               751                      708                          5.4                  104                       -
1972               71;                      651                          4.8                    95                      -
1973               802                      665                          4.7                    97                      -
1974              1011                      712                          4.9                  104                       -
1975              1018                      649                          4.3                   95                       -
1976              1164                      685                          4.4                  100                      0.3
1977              1133                      619                          3.8                    91                     5.0
1978              1965                      794                          4.7                  116                      9.8
1979              3218                      960                          5.2                  140                     12.4
1980                -                      1104                           -                   161                     15.0
1981                -                      1270                           -                   186                     17.3
1982                -                      1460                           -                   213                     19.8
1983                -                      1680                           -                   245                     22.8
1984                -                      1930                           -                   282                     26.2
1985 3/             _                      2220                           -                   325                     30.0
1/ Central Bank of Ceylon
2| For 1971-1979, Central Bank of Ceylon. For 1980-1984, assumes 15% real growth per
annum.
3/ Based on 1971 census, thereafter estimated as a constant ratio to value
added which implies constant worker productivity. During most of the 1970a
import restrictions on construction equipment curtailed worker productivity in
real terms, while in the late 1970s4 emigration to the Middle East of the most highly
skilled workers offset productivity gains from the lifting of import controls.
More such emigration is expected in the 1980s.
4/ Mission estimates based on figures of the Ministry of Plan Implementation, Division of Manpower
Planning
October 1980



-28-
Table 2
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Distribution of Emigration by Job Category
Job Category                    Estimated     Estimated 1984
as percentage                   Domestic        Emigrants as
of total       Estimated   Construction         2 of all
Constructiol     Emigrants      Workers         Construction
Emigration-       1984          1984             Workers
(1000's)    (1000's)
Equipment Operators and Mechanics
Mechanics                                   9
Heavy vehicle drivers                       7
Machine Operators                           5
Sub-total                                     21         5.50         8.47                40
Engineers                                           1        0.26          2.82                9
Technical Supervisors and Technicians               6        1.57          6.49               20
Artisans
Carpenters                                 19
Masons                                     17
Electricians                                5
Fitters and barbenders                      5
Plumbers                                    2
Sub-total                                     48        12.58        52.49                20
Laborers                                           24        6.24        211.93                 3
Total                                             100       26.20        282.20                9
1/ 1976-1979
Source: Ministry of Plan Implementation: Division of Manpower Planning,
Annex I - Tables 1 and 4, and Mission estimates.
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Manpower Requirements - Mahaweli
Employed or
Available               Total Projected Requirements -------
1979       1980       1981         1982      1983        1984
Work supervisors                   958        869        1038         976        971         368
Heavy M/C & plant operators        458        496         694        653         723         266
Mechanics                           791       465         701         879        664         130
Greasers                           111        320         410        416         385          90
Total Equipment Personnel         1360       1281        1948       1948        1772         486
Carpenters                         647       1930        2868       2728        1362         340
Masons                              787      1817        3628        3538       2224          240
Barbenders & steel fitters         154        638        1069        1268       1003         237
Plumbers                              4        34          42          33          28         15
Electricians                         18        17          19         -          -            _
Total Artisans                     1610      4436        7626        7567       4617         832
Total Laborers I
and Helpers -                  10481      65680      104690     104910       73660       16860
Grand Total                      14409      72446      115159      115401      81026        18546
/ Government projects that the number of unskilled workers will total 109330 in 1980 and 135330
in 1981 but the mission believes that efforts to speed Mahaweli through greater use of equip-
ment will mean that the number of unskilled workers will be limited to ten times the number
of skilled workers.
Source:  Mahaweli Accelerated Programme - Manpower Requirements, August 1979 and Mission estimates.
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Manpower Requirements - Public Housing Program - Direct Construction -
Employed      -------Total Projected Requirements-------
Worker years
per unit       1979         1980       1981       1982       1983       1984
Number of Units 2/                         3,288         4,603     6,444       7,733      8,340      8,340
Technical Supervisors            .12          395          552        773        928      1,001      1,001
Equipment Operators
& Mechanics                   .15          493          690        966      1,160      1,251       1,251
Masons                           .45       1,480         2,072      2,900      3,480      3,753      3,753
Carpenters                       .31       1,019         1,427      1,998      2,397      2,585      2,585
Barbenders &                                                                                                               
Steel Fitters                 .06          197          276        387        464         500        500
Plumbers                         .04          132          184        258        309        334        334
Electricians                     .04          132          184        258        309        334        334
Total Artisans                   .90       2,960        4,143      5,800      6,960       7,506      7,506
Total Laborers
and Helpers                  2.25        7,398       10,357    14,499    17,399    18,765    18,765
Total                        3.42       11,244       15,742    22,038    26,447    28,523    28,523
1/  Direct construction only; excludes aided self help and loan programs which make up 30% of the
total proposed expenditure on public expenditure on public housing.  Represents public sector
expenditure, although 90% of the work is currently being contracted out to the private sector.
2/  80% houses with floor area of 400 sq. feet each, 15% houses with 800 sq. feet and 5% with
1200 sq. feet; i.e. each unit has an average of 500 sq. feet floor area.                                         X
Source:  Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction, and Mission estimates.
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Total Manpower Requirements
and Numbers to be Trained (All Grades)
Calender Year                     1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         19853/
Estimated Requiremnentsa
Mahaweli (From Table 3)               14,409       72,446      115,159      115,401       81,026       18,546       18,546
Public Housing (From Table 4)         11,244       15,742       22,038       26,447       28,523       28,523       28,523       Total
Other Government Projects -            8,551       29.396       45,732       47,283       36,516       15,690       15,690    (1979-85)
Total Government Projects             34,204      117,584      182,929      189,131      146,065       62,759       62,759       795,431
Available for Private
Anva btment Projects -             105,796       43,416        3,071       23,869       98,935      219,241      262,241       755,569
Total Labor Force    4/
(From Table 1)                     140,000      161,000      186,000      213,000      245,000      282,000      325,000    1,552,000 man-years
Increase on Previous Year               -          21,000       25,000       27,000       32,000       37,000       43,000
Cumulative increase                     -          21,000       46,000       73,000      105,000      142,000      185,000
Estimated Trainee Outputs
From Existing Programs                              6,036        4,400        2,818        2,818        2,818        2,818
From Project  -                                      -           8,262       17,721          38        21,738
Total                                           6,036       12,662       20,539       23,146       24,556       24,556
Cumulative Total                                    6,036       18,698       39,237       62,383       86,939      111,495
Cumulative Total Trained as
Percentage of Cumulative                           29%          41%          54%          59%          61%          60%
Increase in Work Force
(1979-1985)
1/  Assuming Mahaweli and Housing Program represents 75% of total public sector construction activity.
2/  Total projected labor force from Table 1 less public sector construction requirement.
3/ Mission estimates.
4/  Does not include migrants to the Middle East.
51  The Project is assumed to run from mid-1981 to mid-1984.  It is assumed that training will continue                                                   a
thereafter as required to meet the needs of the industry.
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Basic Skills and Advanced Artisan Training Resources
(in Trainee-Weeks (TW) per year)
Bar Benders and           ____________________________
Training Organisation                    Masons                   Carpenters                Steel Fixers                   Plumbers                     Electricians
Existing Resources
Department of Higher Education                     T.W.                        T.W.                          T.W.                         T.W.                           T.W.
No. of Technical Institutes            20                          20
Average Class Size                     20                          20
Duration of Course (weeks)             46       18,400      .      46       18,400                          0                            0 
!Department of Rural Industries
No. of students per year                                        1,500
Duration of Course (weeks)                                         46       69,000                          0                            0                              O
Department of Labor
No. of Permanent Centers                2                           2                                                                                      2
Average Class size                     20                          20                                                                                    20
Duration of Course (weeks)             46        1,840             46        1,840                          0                            0               46         1.840
No. of Mobile Centel's                 70                          60
Average Class Size                     20                          20
Duration of Course (weeks)             46       64,400             46       55,200                          0                            0                             0
Total Resources per Year
in Trainee Weeks                             84,640                     144,440                           0                            0                          1,840
P oj ct Requirement
(From Table 5)                    Training    Surplus (+)   Training    Surplus (+)   Training    Surplus (+)   Training            Surplus (+)    Training        Surplus (+)
Demand      Deficit (-)   Demand        Deficit (-)   Demand        Deficit (-)   Demand         Deficit (-)    Demand          Deficit (-)
Year 1                             82,000      + 2,640         52,000    + 92,440            800      -   800            800        -   800            800        + 1,040
Year 2                             82,000      + 2,640         66,000    + 78,440          2,800      - 2,800          2,800        - 2,800          2,800        -   960
Year 3                             82,000      + 2,640         88,000    + 56,320          3,600      _3600            3,600        - 3,600          3,600          1,760
Total (in Trainee-Weeks)          246,000     + 7,920         206,000    +227,320          7,200      - 7,200          7,200       - 7,200           7,200        - 1,680
*~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                ~        ~       ~~          ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -          H-*   
Numbers to be trained               B= 24,000  A   4,500        B   19,000  A   4,500      ! B   600  A   200            B =600  A   200               B =600  A   200                   a-
(B - Basic, A = Advanced)                                                                                                                                                                C 
Source: Government Statistics
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
TenLative Schedule of Trainee Enrollment
(Number of Trainees per Project Year)
TRAINING CLASS
YEAR                           1                    2                     3                  TOTAL                   PERIOD
-.   .                                          .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(WeP k.0!
B - BASIC                        B          A         B           A         B           A         B          A           B           A
A - ADVANCED
1.  TECHNICAL PLANNING
AND MANAGEMENT              _           _         -           40        _           40       -            80         _             8
2.  TECHNICAL SITE               -         300        -           300       -           300                   900        -             8
SUPERVISION
3.  EQUIPMENT OPERATORS        144          -        200           -       200           -       544           -        12             -
I .                                            _-_
4.  DUMP TRUCK DRIVERS           84         _         84           _        84           -       252           _         4             _
5.  AGRIC. TRACTOR
DRV/MECH                    36          _         54           -        54          -        144                     8             .
i 6.  SMALL CONSTRUCTION          120                   240          -        240          -       600                      4
PLANT
7.  PLANT MECHANICS              40    i             100           -       120           -       260           _        24             _
8.  MASONS                   8,000                              1,500                         24,000       4,500         8            12
[ 9.  CARPENTERS                5,000      1,000    6,000         1,500   8,000         2,000  19,000         4,500         8            12
10.  B.B. & S. FIXERS            100         -        200          100      300          100      600          200        8            12
11.  PLUMBERS                    100         _        200          100      300          100      600          200        8            12
12.  ELECTRICIANS                100         -        200          100      300          100      600          200        8            12
TOTAL.               13,724       2,800   15,278         3,640  1/,598        4,140  46,600        10,580                                      X
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ .____                                                                                                         0r
16,524               18,918                21,738                57,180
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1980



-34-
Table 8
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Tentative Schedule of Training Courses
First Year Only
Course       Courses      Trainees       Trainees      Trainees        Number       Course       Trainee
Duration        Per           Per           Per            Per            of           Per          Per
(Weeks)        Year         Course          Year        Machine        Machines       "^.-r        Year
1.  Technical Planning and Management                8             4             10            40             -             -             0            0
2.  Technical Site Supervision                       8            15             20           300             -             -            15          300
(in 3 streams)
3. Operators and Mechanics
Heavy Equipment
Roller                                        6              7            12             84            4              3            5           60
Dozer                                        12              3.5           9             32            3              3            2            18
Scraper                                      12              3.5           6             21            3              2            3           18
Grader                                       12              3.5           6             21            3              2            2            12
Excavator                                    12              3.5          12             42            4              3            3           36
200-                        T3                        -544
Dump and Service Truck
Dump Truck                                    4              3            12             36            2              6            3            36
Service Truck                                 4              3            16             48            8              2            3           48
T4                           8                        84
Small Plant                                     4             10            24            240            3             10            5           120
Small Agriculture Tractor                       8              6             9             54            3              4-W          4           36
Mechanics                                       24             6             20           120             -             -            2            20
(in 3 streams)
4. Masons
Basic                                         8           400             20         8,000             -              -          400        8,000
(in 70 centers)
Advanced                                     12             75            20          1,500            -              -           75        1,500
(in 20 centers)
5. Carpenters
Basic                                         8            400            20         8,000             -              -          250        5,000
(in 70 centers)
Advanced                                     12            100            20         2.000             -              -           50        1,000
(in 30 centers)
6. Bar Benders and Steel Fixers
Basic                                         8            15             20           300             -             -             5          100
(in 3 centers)
Advanced                                     12              5            20            100            -              -            0            0
(in 2 centers)
7. Plumbers
Basic                                         8             15            20           300             -             -             5          100
(in 3 centers)
Advanced                                     12              5            20            100            -              -            0
(in 2 centers)
8. Electricians
Basic                                         8             15            20           300             -             -             5          100
(in 3 centers)
Advanced                                     12              5            20            100            -              -            0            0
(in 2 centers)
21,738
a/ To be provided to Department of Labor Training Centers from existing government resources.
Source: Mission estimates
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance. Inspectors and Instructors
With Training Costs
Year 1                     Year 2                      Year 3                       TOTAL
Cost                       Cost                        Cost                       Cost
Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (RE 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Construction
Industry Advisor
(@ Rs 198,00u i,m.)       12           2376            12         2376           12           2376           36           7128
2. Senior Training
Manager (@ Rs
198,000 p.m.)             12           2376            12          2376           12          2376            36           7128
3. Equipment
Operation Advisor
(@ Rs 160,000 p.m.)       24           3840            24         3840           24           3840           72          11520
4. Equipment
Maintenance Advisor
(6 Small Plant
Advisor) (@ Rs
160,000 p.m.)             12           1920            12          1920           12          1920            36           5760
5. Technical
Ma,nagement and
Supervision Advisor
(@ Rs 160,000 p.m.)       24           4320            24         4320           24           4320           72          12960
6. Masonry Advisor
(@ Rs 160,000 p.m.)       24           3840            24         3840           24           3840           72           11520
7. Carpentry Advisor
(@ Rs 160,000 p.m.)       24           3840            24         3840           24           3840           72          11520
9. Plumbing Advisor
(@ Rs 160,00C p.m.)       12           1920             6          960            -             -            18            2880
9. Electrical
Training Advisor
(@ Rs 160,000 p.m.)       12           1920             6          960            -             -            18            2880        m .
m0
10.Overseas training                                                                                                                   0
for Instructors and
Inspectors                -             216             -           192            -            169           _             576
156         26568           144         24624           132         22680          432          73872



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance, Inspectors and Instructors
With Training Costs
Year 1                      Year 2                      Year 3                        TOTAL
Cost                        Cost                        Cost                        Cost
Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000')   Man Mouths  (lOs1000's)
II. INSPECTORS & INSTRUCTORS
11. Instructor,
Planning and
Management (@ Rs
3,200 p.m.)               -             -               6           19             6            19            12             38
12. Instructor,
Site Supervision
(@ Rs 3,200 p.m.)        36           115              36          115            36           115           108           345
13. Sr_ Instructor,
Equipment (@ Rs
4,000 p.m.)               60           240             60          240            60           240           180            720
14. Instruqtor,
Equipmentl'(@ Rs
2,800 p.m.)              288           806            300          840           312           874           900           2520
15. Inspector,
Advanced Craft
(@ Rs 2,000 p.m.)        48             96             60          120            72           144           180            360
16. Instructors"
Advanced Craftr2-
(@ Rs 1,800 p.m.)        -             -               36           65            72           130           108           195
17. Inspectors,
Basic Skills (@
Rs 2,000 p.m.)           156           312            180          360           180           360           516           1032
18. Instructo s,
Basic Skills3
(@ Rs 1,800 p.m.)        24            43              48           86            72           130           144           259
612          1612            726         1845           810          2012          2148          3546Y
I/ Plus two instructors from existing D.O.L. staff                                                                                       aD
'0
2/ Plus 36 instructors in Year 1, 47 in Year 2 and 51 in Year 3 from existing institution staff                                          
3/ Plus 131 instructors in Year 1, 142 in Year 2 and 143 in Year 3 from existing institution staff



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance, Inspectors and Instructors
With Training Costs
Year 1                       Year 2                        Year 3                         TOTAL
Cost                         Cost                          Cost                         Cost
Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)
III. TRAVEL & SURSISTENCE COSTS
19. Technical
Supervision Staff
@ Rs 3,000 per man-
year and Rs 200 per
trainee                                  69                            69                            69                            207
20. Equipment
Instructors @ Rs
1,000 per man-year                       31                            32                            33                             96
21. Advanced Craft
Inspectors @ Rs
1,560 per man-month                       75                           94                           112                            281
22. Advanced Craft
TnEtructors' training
@ Rs 1,500 per
instructor  ilris 19%                     57                           24                            18                             99
replacement p.a.
23. Basic Craft
Inspectors @ Rs
1,560 per man-month                      243                          281                           281                           805
24. Basic Craft
Inspectors' training
@ Rs 1,500 per                                                                                                                              "OH
Trispector plus 10o                                                                                                                        ( a
renricement D,a.                         2nQ                           40                            57                           3(06        (D
684                          540                           570                          1794
US$         38,000                        30,000                        31,700                        99,700



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance, Inspectors and Instructors
With Training Costs
Year 1                      Year 2                       Year 3                         TOTAL
Cost                         Cost                         Cost                        Cost
Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)   Man Months  (Rs 1000's)
IV. OFFICE STAFF
25. Technical
Training
Coordinater
@ Rs 3,360 p.m.                         40                           40                           40                            120
26. Technical
Management general
overheads L.S.                                                       20                           20                             40
27. Technical
Supervision 4 @ Rs
960 p.m.                                46                           46                           46                            138
28. Equipment Training
15 @ Rs 960 p.m.                       173                          173                          173                            519
29. Craft Training 20
@ Rs 960 p.m.                          232                          232                          232                            696
30. Secretaries
Committee & NTCCI 5                     56                           56                           56                            168
@ Rs 960 p.m.
547                         567                          567                           1681
V.  SUPPORT STAFF
31. Technical Supervision
2 Drivers @ Rs 800 p.m.                 19                           19                           19                             57
32. Equipment Training,
Drivers and Labor (30)
@ Rs 800 p.m.                           96                           96                           96                            288
33. Craft Training, Drivers
and Labour (30 ) @ Rs 800 p.m.         288                          288                          288                            864
as
34. secretaries Committee                                                                                                                   a
2 DriVers @ Rs 960 p.m.                 23                           23                           23                             69       4 X
_  -    o o0
426                         426                          426                           1278       \
ulI



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance. Inspectors and Instructors
With Training Costs
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                       TOTAL
*rainee        Cost         Trainee       Cost          Trainee      Cost          Trainee      Cost
Weeks      (Rs 1000's)       Weeks    (Rs 1000's)       Weeks    (Is 1000's)       Weeks    (Rs 1000's)
VI. TRAINEE ALLOWANCES
35. Technical
Supervisors @ Rs
150 per week          2400           360           2400          360          2400          360           7200         1080
36. Equipment
Operators and
Mechanics @ Rs              /
160 per week          3792           607           6528         1044           7008        1121          17328         2772
37. Advanced
Crafts @ Rs                                                                                                                                       '
150 per week         30000          4500          39600         5940         45600         6840         115200        17280
38. Basic Skills
@ Rs 60 per week    106400          6384         116800         7008        135200         8112         358400        21504
142592        11851          165328       14352         190208        16433        498128        42636
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                      TOTAL
(Rs 1000,'s)
SUMMARY
I.   Technical Assistance                  26,568                     24,624                    22,680                      73,872
rr. Inspectors and
Tnstructors                 1,612                       1X845                      2,012                       5,469
III. Travel & Subsistance
Costs                          684                        540                        570                       1,794
IV.  Office Staff                   547                        567                        567                       1,681
V.   Support Staff                  426                        426                        426                        1,278
VI.  Trainee Allowances          11,851                     14,352                     16,433                      42,636               |
15,120                    17,730                     20i  8                      52,858
October 1980                              41688                     42,354                    42,688                      126,730



-40-
Table 10
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Mechanical Equipment
Item No.          Description                  No.     Unit Cost           Total Cost
(US$)               (US$)
1.              Crawler Tractor
with 'dozer attachment        3      155,000              465,000
2.             Roller, 8-10 ton               3       34,000              102,000
3.              Self-propelled Scraper        2      250,000              500,000
4.              Grader                        2      100,000              200,000
5.              Hydraulic Excavator           3      150,000              450,000
6.             Dump truck, 7-10 tons          6       22,000              132,000
7.             Water truck                    2       25,000               50,000
8.              Flatbed truck, 7 ton          3       18,000               54,000
9.              Fuel truck                    1       28,000               28,000
10.              F.W.D. Service truck          2       15,000               30,000
11.             Mobile Concrete Mixer          3        8,000               24,000
12.             Pick up truck                  3       12,000               36,000
13.              Small Plant                 L.S.                           30,000
14.             Personal transport for
Project Cell staff and       L.S                           74,000
Field Inspectors             L_S__74_00
2,175,000
Spares 17% (say)                                          370,000
Total (all in Year 1):                                  2,545,000
Source:  Mission Estimates                                                (say Rs.45.8 million)
October 1980



-41-
Table 11
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Training Materials
Item No.                        Description                              Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Total
1.     Fuel and Lubricants                                               --------- (Cost in Rs 1000's) --------
i) Petrol and Diesel                                         1,230         2,850          2,850        6,930
ii) Lubricants                                                  186            427           427        1,040
1,416         3,277          3,277        7,970
2.     Hand Tools and Small Esuipment
i) Technical Supervision @ Rs 500 per
trainee slot plus 30% replacement p.a.                       35            12             12           59
ii) Equipment Operators and Mechanics @ Rs 1,000
per trainee slot plus 30% replacement p.a.                  168             70            70          308
iii) Advanced Crafts @ Rs 750 per
trainee slot plus 30% replacement p.a.                      565           370            355        1,290
iv) Basic Skills @ 'Rs 250 per trainee
slot plus 30% replacement p.a.                              671           268            292        1,231
1,439           720            729        2,888
3.     Materials for Training
i) Technical Supervisors @
Rs 25 per trainee-week                                       60            60             60          180
ii) Equipment Operators and Mechanics
@ Rs 100 per trainee-week                                   379           653           701         1,733
iii) Advanced Crafts @ Rs 165
per trainee-week                                         4,950          6,534         7,524        19,008
iv) Basic skills @ Rs 134
per trainee-week                                        14,257         15,651        18,116        48,024
19,646        22,898        26,401        68,945
4.     Materials for Aptitude and Trade Testing
i) Aptitude Testing (Advanced Crafts) @
Rs 5 per candidate passing                                   14            18             21           53
ii) Aptitude Testing (Basic Skills) @
Rs 5 per candidate passing                                   69            76             88          233
iii) Trade Testing (Advanced Crafts) 9
Rs 45 per trainee                                           126           164            186          476
iv) Trade Testing (Basic Skills) @
Rs 45 per trainee                                           618           688            792        2,098
827           946         1,087         2,860
5.     Office Supplies
i) Supervisors and Management Training
9 Rs 3,000 per month                                         30            36             36          102
ii) Equipment Operators and Mechanics
Training @ Rs 5,250 per month                                53            63             63          179
iii) Artisans' Training (Basic and
Advanced) 8 Rs 9,000 per month                               90           108            108          306
iv) Secretaries' Committee
@ Rs 1,500 per month                                         15            18             18           51
188           225           225           638
Summary
1.   7uel and Lubricants                                       1,416          3,277         3,277        7,970
2.   Hand Tools and Small Equipment                            1,439            7i0           729        2,888
3.   Materials for Training                                   19,646         22,898        26,401       68,945
4.   Materials for Trade Testing                                 827            946         1,087        2,860
5.   Of F-ce SuppZle                                             188            225           225           638
23,516        28,066         31,719       83,301
October 1980



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs By Year and Component
(US$ millions)
(1981/82)                                        (1982/83)                                 (1983/84)                     (1981/82 - 1983/84)
Year-I                                            Year 2                                    Year 3                      -      Total
Local    Foreign    Tax       Total            Lo,al       Foreign   Tax        Total       local    Foreign    Tax    Total          Local    Foreign    Tax    Total
I. Equipment
(from Table 10)                    0.13         2.42    0.32      2.87              _                                                                                     0.13        2.42      0.32    2.87
Contingencies:  Quantity            0.01        0.12    0.02       0.15              -           -        _          _            _          _        _         _          0.10       0.12      0.02    0.15
Price             0.02         0.37    0.05      0.44              -            -        -          -           -          -         -        -          0.02        0.37      0.05    0.44
Total              0.03        0.49    0.07      0.59             --            -        -          -           -          -         -        -           0.03       0.49      0.07    0.59
Total I with Contingencies          0.16        2.91    0.39       3.46             -                                    _ _ _ _   _ _                                     0.16       2.91      0.39    3.46
II.   Training Materials
(from Table 11)                    0.78         0.52    0.08      1.38             0.94        0.62      0.09       1.65        1.06      0.70       0.11    1.87          2.78       1.84      0.28    4.90
Contingencies:  Quantity            0.08        0.05    0.01       0.14            0.09        0.06      0.01       0.16        0.11      0.07       0.01    0.19          0.28       0.18      0.03    0.49
Price              0.35        0.23    0.04      0.62             0.64        0.42      0.06       1.12        0.95      0.62       0.10    1.67          1.94       1.27      0.20    3.41
Total              0.43        0.28    0.05      0.76             0.73        0.48      0.07       1.28        1.06      0.69       0.11    1.86          2.22       1.45      0.23     3.90
Total II with Contingencies         1.21        0.80    0.13       2.14            1.67        1.10      0.16       2.93        2.12       1.39      0.22     3.73         5.00       3.29      0.51    8.80
III.   Staff Costs and Allowances
(from Table 9)                     0.84          -      0.05      0.89             0.99          -       0.06       1.05        1.11        -        0.07     1.18         2.94        -        0.18    3.12
Contingencies;  Quantity            0.08         -       0.00     0.08             0 10          -       0.01       0.11        0.11         -       0 01    0.12          0.29        -        0.02    0.31
Price              0.38         -      0.02      0.40             0.67          -       0.04       0.71        0.99         -       0.06    1.05          2.04        -        0.12    2.16
Total              0.46         -      0.02      0.48             0.77          -       0.05       0.82        1.10         -       0.07    1.17          2.33        -        0.14    2.47
Total TII  with Contingencies       1.30         -       0.07     1.37             1.76          -       0.11       1.37        2.21         -       0.14    2.35          5.27        -        0.32    5.59
IV.   Technical Assistance
(from Table 'I)                    0.30         1.18    0.37      1.85             0.27        1.10      0.34       1.71        0.25      1.01       0.31    1.57         0.82        3.29      1.02    5.13
Contingencies:  Quantity           0.03         0.12    0.04      0.19             0.03        0.11      0.03       0.17        0.03      0.10       0.03    0.16          0.09       0.33      0.10    0.52
Price             0.06         0.24    0.07      0.37             0.08        0.34      0.10       0.52        0.10      0.41       0.13    0.64          0.24       0.99      0.30     1.53
Total             0.09         0.36    0.11      0.56             0.11        0.45      0.13       0.69        0.13      0.51       0.16    0.80          0.33       1.32      0.40    2.05
Total IV with Contingencies        0.39         1.54    0.48      2.41             0.38        1.55      0.47       2.40        0.38      1.52       0.47    2.37          1.15       4.61      1.42    7.18
Grand Total I - IV                 2.05         4.12    0.82      6.99             2.20        1.72      0.49       4.41        2.42      1.71       0.49    4.62          6.67       7.55      1.80   16.02
Quantity  Contingency           0.20        0.29    0.07       0.56             0.22        0.17      0.05       0.44        0.25      0.17       0.05    0.47         0.67        0.63      0.17     1.47
Price Contingency               0.81,       0.84    0.18       1.83             1.39        0.76      0.20       2.35        2.04      1.03       0.29    3.36         4.24        2.63      0.67    7.54
Total Contingency               1.01         1.13    0.25      2.39             1.61        0.93      0.25       2.79        2.29      1.20       0.34    3.83         4.91        3.26      0.84    9.01
Grand Total I . IV with
Contingencies                   3.06        5.25    1.07       9.38             3.81        2.65      0.74       7.20        4.71      2.91       0.83    8.45        11.58      10.81       2.64   25.03
Note on the computatiol of the project cost table:
1.. Base prices are at mid-1980
2. Q-..ntity contingeocies are 5% for equipment and 10% for other categories
3.  Price contingencies have been calculated up to the middle of relevant period, as follows:
for year I the relevant price rise period is mid-1980 to end-1981; for year 2, mid-198( to
end-1982; for year 3. mid-1980 to end-1983.
Rise in equipment prices is 10.5% in 1980 and 9% in 1981  (international inflation).
Rise in price Of training materials, staff costs and allowances is 25% in 1980, 25% in 1981,
15% in 1982, 12% in 1983, and 10% in 1984.  (domestic Sri Lanka inflation).
Rise in price of technical assistance:  13.5% in 1980/81, 8.5% in 1981/82, 7.5% in 1982/P3 and
7.5% in 1983/84 (domestic U.K. inflation).
4,  Taxes are 12.5% for equipment; 6% for training materials, staff costs and allowances; and 25% for
technical assista0le.
Source: Mission Estinotes
December 1980



-43-
Table 13
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                       Cumulative Disbursements to
and Quarter                                         end of Quarter (US$1000's)
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                              200
December 31, 1981                                               900
March 31, 1982                                                1,900
June 30, 1982                                                 3,000
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                            4,100
December 31, 1982                                             5,400
March 31, 1983                                                6,500
June 30, 1983                                                 7,500
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                            8,400
December 31, 1983                                             9,200
March 31, 1984                                               10,400
June 30, 1984                                                11,400
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                           12,600
December 31, 1984                                            13,500
Source:                 .Mission Estimates
Credit Effecitive Date: June 30, 1981
Closing Date:             December 31, 1984



-44-                      ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Modular Training for the Construction Industry
1.        The principal aim of modular training is to provide a system which
will train to, and only to, specified standards so that the trainee does not
waste time and resources learning what he does not need to know at any stage,
but is able to undertake a specified range of tasks competently. By attending
and passing a number of modular training courses, a trainee is able to work
his way up in his trade or profession to make a complete career, as illus-
trated in Chart No. 1.
2.        Details of the training will differ from trade to trade, but as an
example, an unskilled worker entering the industry to commence training as
a mason would progress as follows:
Tasks performed on completion:
(a) Basic Skills Module
Lay concrete footing to line and
level. Carry out simple concrete
laying;
(b)  Skills Module                   Bricklaying, simple plastering
scaffolding, kerb laying, drain
laying (small diameter pipes),
simple concrete work;
(c)  Advanced Skills Module          Advanced brickwork, stonework,
advanced concrete work, roofing,
advanced internal plastering,
rendering to external walls,
ceramic tiling to walls, floor
tiling, large diameter pipe
laying;
(d) Supervisory Skills (Part 1) and
(e)  Supervisory Skills (Part 2)   Two stages covering simple planning
of site work and site organisation,
progress chasing, stock and cost
control, quality control on site,
setting out, checking dimensions of
work and measurement, simple method
study, simple surveying and record
keeping;



-45-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(f)  Basic Technical Skills          Setting out and simple surveying,
costing and estimating works, simple
design;
(g)  Advanced Technical Skills       Surveying and setting out of
complex works, design and design
methods, overall quality control
of works, works planning;
(h)  Management Training Part 1    Planning total resources, estimating
site costs and overheads, control of
site labor, buying materials;
(i)  Management Training Part 2    Purchasing, bidding techniques,
obtaining work, planning procedures,
office administration and contrcl,
personnel management, cost control;
(j)  Management Training Part 3    Marketing skills; contract law and
contract procedures, legal respons-
ibilities.
3.        Each training module is designed around a job specification which
details what the trainee, on completion of the training course, is expected
t:o be able to do quickly and well. The job specification is an expansion of
t:he brief description of the tasks performed on completion given in para 2
hereof. As an illustration, the job specification for equipment operators is
as follows:
Equipment Operators
This broad job specification covers the Dozer, Scraper, Grader, Road
Roller, and Excavator Driver.
Plant Operators must be able to operate proficiently one or
more types of equipment with or without the appropriate ancillary
equipment or attachments.
General Requirements
Knowledge
All operators must have a sound knowledge of:
(a) the designed purpose and capabilities of the equipment;
(b) the correct operating procedures and safe working
practices;
(c) how the machine works;



-46-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(d) the maintenance and adjustment requirements and who should
carry them out;
(e) how sites are set out and how to interpret the information
provided by level pegs, profiles, etc;
(f) how to adapt the operation.of the machine to suit varying
soil conditions; and
(g) how to recover machines.
Practical Ability
Operators must be able to:
(a) operate their machines safely and up to an adequate
standard of output, commensurate with site conditions,
including all ancillary equipment;
(b) site machine safety and efficiently in relation to the task;
(c) carry out minor adjustments and repairs including routine
servicing and refuelling;
(d) load and off-load their machine on and off a low loader;
and
(e) change all ancillary equipment and attachments.
4.        Each period of training, whether on- or off-site, is preceded by
an aptitude test and followed by a trade test. The aptitude test is a measure
of the candidates training potential and ability to learn the job. It gives
the candidate a short, highly structured period of training in the skills he
will have to learn, and then tests how well he has absorbed the instruction
and is able to do the job. Aptitude tests are time consuming and have to be
given in a standard manner. They have however, the advantage that results do
not depend on the type of candidate and can be used as a prelude to all forms
of training, thereby reducing wasted effort spent on training those who are
unsuitable and would probably drop-out or not pass the trade test at the end
of the course. To handle the large number of trainees planned under the
project, simplified tests will be used which economise on use of materials and
instructors' time. The trade tests on completion of training are designed to
test the practical and theoretical knowledge that the trainee has acquired and
to check that he can undertake the tasks included in his job specification
efficiently and well without undue waste of time and materials. It is not
expected that a trainee, on completion of his course, will be fully qualified
and eigerienced but rather that he is able to show that, with a suitable
period of works experience, he has the ability to become so.



-47-                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTTON INDUSTRY PROJECT
I.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training
A. Background
1.        Following a period of virtual stagnation in the domestic construc-
tion industry, the introduction of a more liberal economic policy in 1977
has brought about a large increase in the demand for construction work in Sri
Lanka. The industry is poorly equipped to meet this demand, and the Govern-
ment of Sri lanka (COSL) has negotiated a credit of US$13.5 million with
the International Development Association (IDA) for technical training of
construction industry personnel at various levels with the aid of technical
assistance. The credit is expected to become effective in June 1981.
2.        Current estimates are that the following training will be required
over the next three years in addition to that provided by existing institutions:
Management                                ;Bo
Supervisors                               900
Mechanical equipment operators          1,500
Skilled artisans                        9,600
Construction workers at basic level 45,000
It is proposed that training for operators and mechanics will be carried out
as a production-training operation wherein the trainees will work under experi-
ernced supervision on a project which is part of Sri Lanka's development pro-
gram. For the purpose, GOSL intends to make available a part of Karindi Oya
dam construction project and suitable workshop accommodation. The training of
unskilled labor in basic construction skills will be carried out at centers
throughout Sri Lanka for short periods to impart rudimentary skills of the
trades sufficient only to undertake simple tasks under supervision. Training
will be administered by the National Apprenticeship Board of the Ministry of
Youth and Employment and carried out by other Ministries now engaged in similar
training. Training will be on a modular system which will allow trainees to
acquire necessary skills by means of short training courses as required as
they progress in the industry.
3.        In order to car-y out the training required, GOSL wishes to engage
the services of a technical assistance group under single coordinating manage-
ment to plan in detail, organize and supervise the training program. It is
expected that there will be a requirement for approximately 400 man-months
oE technical assistance, and the requirements are outlined in the following
section.



-48-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Scope of Technical Assistance Services Required
Management Training
4.        Management trainees will be carefully selected for training to
the level where they will be able to efficiently plan, organize, operate
and control construction operations. They will probably have already had
experience of this type of work, and they may, but not necessarily will, be
graduates. The technical assistance team, using existing facilites for the
purpose will teach and demonstrate work planning and organization techniques
applicable to construction operations, and may require the trainees to carry
out specific planning, organization or control duties under supervision. It
is expected that each trainee will require a period of about 8 weeks training,
and in the case of those who show particular ability, this training may be
followed by a period of overseas training in works management.
Supervisors' Training
5.        Trainee supervisors will already have basic trade skills and some
years of experience. The object of their training will be to bring them to
a stage where they can organize and take charge of works under the general
direction of technical management. They will, therefore, need to know the
elementary principles of work organization and planning of man-management.
The technical assistance team will organize and run training courses, prob-
ably of about two months' duration, giving theoretical and practical train-
ing as outlined and in accord with similar courses already organized by
GOSL.
Training for Mechanical Equipment Operators and Mechanics
6.        On the training project to be provided by GOSL, the following major
items of mechanical equipment are to be provided:
3 Crawler tractors with 'dozer attachments
3 8-10 ton rollers
2 Self-propelled scrapers
2 Graders
3 Hydraulic excavators
6 7-10 ton dum- truckL
2  Water trucks
3 Flatbed trucks
I Fuel truck
2 FWD service trucks
3 Pick-up trucks
Various items of small plant.
There is available on or near the site a field workshop with a range of
equipment suitable for maintenance and repair of mechanical equipment.
The technical assistance team will operate the fleet so as to undertake the
project work, and the workshops so as to maintain the fleet in good working



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page  3
order, using trainee operators and mechanics. Trainees will be selected
after testing for literacy and numeracy and for basic mechanical aptitude.
Operators are expected to require up to three months training in order to
become reasonably proficient on more than one item of equipment, while
mechanics are expected to require six months training to bring them to the
stage when they can carry out maintenance and minor repairs without super-
vision, and major repairs under supervision, on a range of equipment types.
Advanced and Basic Construction Skill Training
7.        In view of the large numbers involved, this training will be decen-
tralised amongst a number of existing centers throughout Sri Lanka, and will
be kept to the minimum necessary to upgrade existing skills in the case of
advanced skills training, or to allow unskilled labor to undertake simple
tasks under supervision in the case of basic skills training. Training will
be over a period of 8 weeks, followed by a period of on-site experience.
The principal training effort will be for masons and carpenters, but smaller
numbers of plumbers, electricians and bar benders and steel fixers will be
trained. It is intended to introduce unified trainability tests for candi-
dates and trade tests on completion of training, with registration of trained
skilled workers, testing and registration being planned and administered by
the National Apprenticeship Board.
General Administration of the Project
8.        The project will be administerd by the Secretaries' Committee
for the Construction Industry through a Project Cell, and training will
be under the guidance of the Training Committee for the Construction Industry,
set up by GOSL. The technical assistance team will be responsible to the
Project Cell and will be expected to work in cooperation with these commit-
tees and with ministries and departments of governm(ent who are already carry-
ing out training for the industry and some of whose facilities will be used
under the project. The Secretaries' Committee for the Construction Industry
will be advised by a Construction Industry Specialist, to be appointed under
the project, who will advise the committee on policy and technical matters
not directly concerned with training.
Facilities to be Provided by Government
9.        In order to assist the technical assistance group to undertake its
duties, Government will provide the following facilities:
(a) Suitable office space with furniture, office equip-
ment, telephone and air conditioning where necessary,
water and toilet facilities;
(b) Office support staff;
(c)  Stationery and office supplies as necessary; and



-50-                       ANNEX 2
Page 4
(d) Hand tools, equipment, vehicles, lubricants, fuel,
spares, materials and consumable stores required
for training under the project, together with wages
and subsistence allowances for trainees.
GOSL will assign suitable full-time counterpart staff to work with the group
and will nominate one senior officer to act as project director in charge of
the project cell and for liaison with Government. GOSL will make available
all information from within Government which is necessary for the group's
work, and will use its good offices to obtain any information from elsewhere
which may be required. GOSL will assist the group to obtain necessary visas,
permits and licenses required in connection with their duties and will assist
to locate suitable living accommodation.
II.   Draft Terms of Reference for a Construction Industry Specialist
A. Background
10.       Following a period of virtual stagnation in the domestic construc-
tion industry, the introduction of a more liberal economic policy in 1977
has brought about a large increase in the demand for construction work in
Sri Lanka. The industry is poorly equipped to meet this demand, and the Gov-
ernment of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has negotiated a credit of US$13.5 million with
the International Development Association (IDA) to improve the capacity of
the industry and for technical training of construction industry personnel
at various levels by means of technical assistance. It is expected the credit
will become effective in June 1981.
11.       In an effort to coordinate GOSL dealings with the construction
industry, branches of government concerned with construction work are repre-
sented on the Secretaries' Committee of the Construct-ion Industry, set up
under the chairmanship of the Secretary of the Ministry of Local Government,
Housing and Construction. It is proposed to provide one construction industry
specialist to work in Government with this committee and to act as their
technical advisor for a period of about 36 months. The specialist will have
a record of working with the construction industry and within government,
preferably under conditions similar to those in Sri Lanka, at a senior level
and over a period of at least ten years.
B. Duties of the Specialist
12.       The specialist will act as technical and policy advisor to the
Secte-taries' Committee of the Construction Industry in order to advise on
suitable ways to improve the output and efficiency of the industry and to
ease contract processes and procedures between the industry and the client,
especially where the client is government. His duties will include, but
will not be limited to, the following:



-51-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
(a)  Assisting various ministries and departments of government
to agree on uniform specifications and General Conditions
of Contract for construction work which are appropriate to
the type of work to be done and the standard of development
of contractors;
(b) Advising government on improved contract planning and
preparation designed to lead to more economic cost estima-
tion and bidding and a reduced volume of changes and
variation orders once work has commenced;
(c)  Assisting with the introduction of uniforn and reasonable
testing and quality control procedures acceptable to both
the client and contractor and commensurate with the facil-
ities available;
(d) Investigating existing payment procedures, availability
of advances, requirement for bid and performance bonds,
prequalification requirements and arbitration, and sug-
gesting changes and improvements that seeim desirable;
(e) Reviewing the existing and potential equipment spares,
repair and servicing facilities through suppliers and
elsewhere with the object of setting up equipment main-
tenance systems which will make the best use of facilities
available;
(f) Planning and implementing a system of construction indices
to serve as a monitor of the industry's activity, to provide
data for the regular revision of costs and to give warning
of possible shortages of supplies and other resources;
(g) Advising on a suitable organisation, and its funding, which
would be able to take over responsibility for training within
the industry;
(h) Assisting to set up an Employers' Federation able to speak
on behalf of the industry;
(i) Advising where required on possible improvements in labor
relations and compensation; and
(j) Advising on whether any existing regulations, or the appli-
cation thereof, constitute an impediment to expatriate
contractors in Sri Lanka.



-52-                       ANNEX 2
Page 6
In addition and in cooperation with the technical assistance to be provided
for training, the specialist will:
(k) Advise on training standards, detailing training requirements
for the industry in cooperation with existing training insti-
tutions, and assist with the standardization of training at
levels appropriate for the work to be done;
(1) Advise and assist with the selection of trainees for tech-
nical and managerial training; and
(m)  Advise on the introduction of uniform trade testing for the
more common trades, linked if possible to recognized levels
of wages;
In order to undertake these duties, the specialist will need to cooperate
fully with the various agencies working in the sector and to take account
of studies and reports which have been produced already. Although he will
be working within GOSL, his position should be seen as that of an impartial
advisor whose objective is to create an effective and economic industry able
to meet the future demands in the country.
c. Facilities to be Provided by Government
13.       In order that the specialist shall be able to carry out his duties,
GOSL will make the following facilities available:
(a) Suitable office space with furniture, office equipment,
telephone, air conditioning, water and toilet facilities;
(b) Office support staff; and
(c) Stationery and office supplies as necessary.
GOSL will assign one senior member of staff who is suitably qualified to work
full-time with the specialist as a counterpart. GOSL will make available all
information from within government which is necessary for the specialist's
duties, and will use its good offices to obtain any information from elsewhere
which may be required. GOSL will assist the specialist to obtain any neces-
sary visas, permits and licenses he may require in connection with his duties
and will assist him to locate suitable accommodation.



-53-                       ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Project Cell
1.        The Government of Sri Lanka has negotiated a Credit of US$13.5 mil-
lion with the International Development Association (IDA) to increase the
supply of trained manpower and improve the level of technical management in
the Sri Lanka construction industry. The project is expected to commence in
1981 and to be completed in 1984, and will consist of the following components:
(i) training for about 45,000 new entrants in basic construc-
tion skills;
(ii) training for about 9,600 experienced construction workers
to upgrade their skills;
(iii)  training for about 1,800 mechanical equipment operators
and mechanics in operation and maintenance procedures;
(iv) training for about 900 work supervisors in supervision
and quality control;
(v) training for about 80 senior works managers;
(vi) technical assistance to organize and run the training
programs and to advise Government on technical and policy
issues concerning the construction industry; and
(vii) supply of equipment and materials required for training.
2.        Training in basic and advanced skills will take place in a number
of existing training institutions throughout Sri Lanka. Training for mechan-
ical equipment operators and mechanics will take place on works sites with
the Project Cell acting in the role of subcontractor. The administration of
aptitude tests, trade tests and registration of trained personnel together
with inspection of training undertaken will be done by the augmented staff of
the National Apprenticeship Board (NAB). The Secretaries' Committee for the
Construction Industry (SCCI) will act as a steering committee for policy
aspects of the project as a whole, while the National Training Committee for
the Construction Industry (NTCCI), to be established, will act as a steering
committee for the training component.
Functions of the Project Cell
3.        In order to carry out the day-to-day administration of the proposed
IDA project, the Government of Sri Lanka is to establish a Project Cell within
the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction, responsible to the



-54-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Minister through the Secretary, and operating under a Project Director.
Under the Project Director, the Project Cell will:
(i)  act as the main channel of communication between the project
technical assistance team and Government;
(ii)  in agreement with the various agencies of Government con-
cerned in the project, prepare budget estimates of expendi-
ture for each agency for consolidation into a project budget
estimate for submission to Government;
(iii)  receive the main warrant for expenditure on the project
from Government, consolidate expenditure returns and be
responsible to Government for project expenditures;
(iv)  coordinate and arrange procurement of training materials;
(v) enter into Training Subcontract Agreements with the object
of providing training for equipment operators and mechanics
on work sites, administer the Training Subcontract, submit
claims for payments and receive payments for work done to
acceptable standards;
(vi)  receive, operate and maintain the equipment fleet to be
provided under the project so as to give the required
training in its use;
(vii)  liaise with SCCI and NTCCI to ensure that their views and
decisions are taken into full account in the project;
(viii)  coordinate the work done under the project between the
various agencies concerned;
(ix)  assisted by NAB, ensure that uniform standards for training
are applied throughout the project, and endeavor to introduce
the same standards to similar training carried on elsewhere;
(x) supervise the project monitoring and evaluation system to
be set up by NAB by June 30, 1982 and prepare reports to
Government and IDA on the progress of the project and on
the long-term prospects for development in the construction
industry;
(xi)  on completion of the project, prepare within a period of
six months, a Project Completion Report for submission to
IDA;
(xii) review the progress of the project on a continuing basis
and make such recommendations as may be appropriate on
revisions or alterations to the project program and
targets;



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(xiii) provide administrative and logistical support for the tech-
nical assistance team as required and generally administer
the technical assistance contract on behalf of Government;
(xiv) publicize training opportunities provided under the project;
(xv) plan and supervise a program for training instructors; and
(xvi) provide a secretariat for the National Training Committee for
the Construction Industry.
The Project Cell will be assisted in their duties by members of the technical
assistance team, who will be responsible to the Project Director.
Staffing and Facilities for the Project Cell
4.        In order that the Cell may carry out its duties, the following will
be provided:
Staff
1   Project Director
1   Technical Training Director (Deputy
Project Director)
1   Technical Management Director (part-time)
4   Assistant Project Directors
5   Senior Instructors (Equipment)
24   Instructors (Equipment)
1   Senior Project Accountant
3   Accountants
9   Assistant Accountants/Account Clerks
8   Clerks/Typists
15   Drivers
30   Laborers, Watchmen, etc.
Equipment
Mechanical equipment and vehicles as detailed in
the appraisal report and recommended by the PPF
technical assistance. Office and accounting
equipment as required.
Office Space
As required and agreed.



-56-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the National Training Committee
for the Construction Industry
Background
1.        As a means to help overcome the current shortage of trained con-
struction workers in the country, the Government of Sri Lanka intends to
introduce a unified system of modular training for the industry. The objec-
tive is to reduce the time and other resources normally used in training by
ensuring that entrants to the industry are trained to, and only to, specified
standards in their craft. Thereafter, by attending and passing further short
training courses, craftsmen are able to progress in their craft and into
middle and senior management according to aptitude and ability.
2.        Immediately, there is the intention to train about 60,000 construc-
tion workers in various skills and at different levels with the assistance
of an IDA credit, and in order to set levels of entry and training and to
coordinate construction industry training under the IDA project and elsewhere,
Government proposes to set up a National Training Committee for the Construc-
tion Industry (NTCCI) as a sub-committee of the Secretaries' Committee for
the Construction Industry (SCCI). Other members of NTCCI will be nominated
from branches of Government concerned with construction work and invited from
the private sector.
Function of the National Training Committee for the Construction Industry
3.        The Committee will:
(i) recommend minimum educational standards for entrants to
the industry at various levels;
(ii) agree aptitude tests for entrants to the industry who are
to be trained under the IDA project, and seek their adop-
tion for all construction industry training in Sri Lanka;
(iii) agree training curricula for modular training courses
established under the IDA project;
(iv) agree appropriate trade testing procedures and standards
for those completing modular training, designed to promote
a career-structure in the industry; and
(v) promote the registration of trained construction industry
workers.



-57-                        ANNEX 4
Page 2
Training under the IDA project will be carried out by various authorities,
but the administration of aptitude testing, trade testing and registration
for the project will be the responsibility of the National Apprenticeship
Board (NAB), who will also ensure that training standards are compatible
throughout. A longer term objective of NTCCI will be to introduce equal
standards for aptitude testing, training, trade testing and registration
for all training in Sri Lanka for the construction industry, irrespective
of how and where it is done and who may carry out the testing.
4.        It is intended eventually to bring about the situation in Sri Lanka
whereunder the registration of construction industry workers and the knowledge
of their standards of training and experience will facilitate long term man-
power planning in the industry and provide inputs for development planning.
In the event that similar national training committees are established for
other industries, NTCCI would be expected to liaise with them to ensure com-
patible standards of training throughout industrial and vocational training.
AcLministration
5.        NTCCI will operate as an expert advisory sub-committee and will
report to the Secretaries' Committee for the Construction Industry. The
Project Cell will provide a secretariat for NTCCI.



-58-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Draft Conditions of Training Subcontract
General Conditions
Definitions
1.   1.1  In the Training Subcontract, as hereinafter defined, the following
words and expressions shall have the meanings hereby assigned to
them, except where the context otherwise requires:
(a) "Employer" means the party named in the Contract who will
employ the Contractor and the legal successors in title
to the Employer, but not, except with the consent of the
Contractor, any assignee of the Employer.
(b) "Contractor" means the person or persons, firm or company
whose tender has been accepted by the Employer and includes
the Contractor's personal representatives, successors and
permitted assigns.
(c) "Engineer" means the Engineer designated as such in the
Contract, or otherwise the Engineer appointed from time
to time by the Employer and notified in writing to the
Contractor to act as Engineer for the purposes of the
Contract in place of the Engineer so designated.
(d)  "Engineer's Representative" means any resident engineer
or assistant of the Engineer, or any clerk of works
appointed from time to time by the Employer or the
Engineer to perform the duties set forth in the Contract,
whose authority shall be notified in writing to the
Contractor by the Engineer.
(e) "Works" shall include both Permanent Works and Temporary
Works.
(f) "Contract" means the Conditions of Contract, Specifica-
tion, Drawings, priced Bill of Quantities, Schedule of
Rates and Prices, if any, Tender, Letter of Acceptance
and the Contract Agreement, if completed, between the
Employer and the Contractor.



-59-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(g) "Training Subcontract Price" means the sum named in
the Letter of Acceptance, subject to such additions
thereto or deductions therefrom as may be made under
the provisions of the Contract.
(h) "Constructional Plant" means all appliances or things
of whatsoever nature required in or about the execution
or maintenance of the Works but does not include mate-
rials or other things intended to form or forming
part of the Permanent Works.
(i) "Temporary Works" means all temporary works of every
kind required in or about the execution or maintenance
of the Works.
(j) "Permanent Works" means the permanent works to be
executed in accordance with the Training Subcontract.
(k) "Specification" means the Specification referred to in
the Tender and any modification thereof or addition
thereto as may from time to time be furnished or
approved in writing by the Engineer.
(1)  "Drawings" means the drawings referred to in the
Specification and any modification of such drawings
approved in writing by the Engineer and such other
drawings as may from time to time be furnished or
approved in writing by the Engineer.
(m)  "Site" means the land and other places on, under, in
or through which the Permanent Works or Temporary
Works designed by the Engineer are to be executed
and any other lands and places provided by the
Employer for working space or any other purpose as
may be specifically designated in t:he Contract as
forming part of the Site.
(n)  "Approved" means approved in writing, including sub-
sequent written confirmation of previous verbal
approval and "approval" means approval in writing,
including as aforesaid.
(o) "Training Subcontractor" means the Project Cell set
up by th,- Secretary of the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Hcusing and Construction of the Government of
Sri Lanka for the purpose of administering the IDA
funded Construction Industry Project, and approved
assignees.



-60-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(p) "Training Subcontract" means this Subcontract together
with those parts of the Contract which may be applicable
to the Works described in the Form of Training Subcontract
Agreement.
Singular and Plural
1.2 Words imparting the singular only also include the plural and
vice versa where the context requires.
Headings or Notes
1.3 The headings and marginal notes in these Conditions of Training
Subcontract shall not be deemed to be part thereof or be taken
into consideration in the interpretation or construction thereof
or of the Contract.
Cost
1.4 The word "cost" shall be deemed to include overhead costs whether
on or off the Site.
General Obligations
Training Subcontractor's General Responsibilities
2.   2.1  The Training Subcontractor shall, subject to the conditions of the
Training Subcontract, and with due care and diligence, execute the
Works and provide all labor, including the supervision thereof,
materials, Construction Plant and all other things, whether of a
temporary or permanent nature, required in and for such execution,
so far as the necessity for providing the same is specified in or
is reasonably to be inferred from the Training Subcontract.
2.2 The Training Subcontractor shall take full responsibility for the
adequate stability and safety of all site operations and methods
of construction, provided that the Training Subcontractor shall
not be responsible, except as may be expressly provided in the
Training Subcontract, for the design or specification of the
Permanent Works, or for the design or specification of any Temporary
Works prepared by the Engineer or the Contractor.
Training Subcontract Agreement
3.        The Training Subcontractor shall when called upon to do so enter
into and execute a Training Subcontract Agreement, to be prepared and
completed at the cost of the Contractor, in the form annexed with such
modification as may be necessary.



-61-                     ANNEX 5
Page 4
Training Subcontractor's Liabilities under the Contract
4.        In respect of the works, goods, materials or services, the
subject of the Training Subcontract, the Training Subcontractor will
undertake towards the Contractor the like obligations and liabilities
as are imposed on the Contractor towards the Employer by the Terms of
the Contract, except as provided in Clause hereof, and will save harm-
less and indemnify the Contractor from and against the same and from
all claims, proceedings, damages, costs, charges and expenses what-
soever arising out of or in connection therewith, or arising out
of or in connection with any failure to perform such obligations
or to fulfill such liabilities.
Training Subcontractor Responsible for Acts of ServaLnts
5.        The Training Subcontractor will save harmless and indemnify the
Contractor from and against any negligence by the Training Subcontractor,
his agents, workmen and servants and from and against any misuse by him
or them of any Constructional Plant or Temporary lWorks provided by the
Contractor for the purpose of the Contract and from all claims as
aforesaid.
Payments
Payments to the Training Subcontractor
6.        For all works executed or goods, materials or services supplied
by the Training Subcontractor, there shall Le iincluded in the Training
Subcontract Price:
(a) the actual price paid or due to be paid by the Contractor,
on the direction of the Engineer, and in accordance with
the Training Subcontract;
(b)  the sum, if any, entered in the Bill of Quantities for
labor, equipment or materials supplied by the Contractor
in connection therewith, or if ordered by the Engineer
in connection with any Provisional Sums as defined in the
Contract, as may be determined by the Engineer in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Contract.
Unless otherwise provided herein, payments shall be made in respect
of the Training Subcontract at monthly intervals on the same terms and
conditions to those applying to the Contractor under the Contract.
Certification of Payments to the Training Subcontractor
7.        Before issuing any Certificate for payment to the Contractor
which includes any payment in respect of work done or goods, materials
or services supplied by the Training Subcontractor, the Engineer shall
be entitled to dem?nd from the Contractor reasonable proof that all
payments, less retentions if any, included in previous certificates



-62-
ANNEX 5
Page 5
in respect of the work or goods, materials or services of the
Training Subcontractor have been paid or discharged by the
Contractor, in default whereof unless the Contractor shall:
(a) inform the Engineer in writing that he has reasonable
cause for withholding or refusing to make such payments;
and
(b) produce to the Engineer reasonable proof that he has so
informed the Training Subcontractor in writing
the Employer shall be entitled to pay to the Training Subcontractor
direct upon the certificate of the Engineer, all payments, less
retentions if any, provided for in the Training Subcontract, which
the Contractor has failed to make to the Training Subcontractor and
to deduct by way of set-off the amount so paid by the Employer from
any sums due or which may become due from the Employer to the Con-
tractor. Provided always that, where the Engineer has certified and
the Employer has paid direct as aforesaid, the Engineer shall in
issuing any further certificate in favor of the Contractor deduct
from the amount thereof the amount so paid direct as aforesaid,
but shall not withhold or delay the issue of the certificate itself
when due to be issued under the terms of the Contract.
Protection and Maintenance of Works
Responsibilities of the Training Subcontractor
for Protection and Maintenance of the Works
8.        The obligations and responsibilities of the Training Subcontractor
for protection and maintenance of the Works as may be defined in the Contract,
shall cease and terminate upon the acceptance in writing of the Works by the
Contractor, such acceptance not to be unreasonably withheld and not to be
dependent upon acceptance of the Works by the Engineer. The payments to be
made to the Training Subcontractor as defined in Clause 6 hereof shall take
account of the obligations assumed by the Contractor in respect of protection
of the Works for the duration of the Contract and for maintenance during the
Maintenance Period, if any, as may be defined in the Contract.
Special Conditions
(To be completed in each case in respect of special considerations applicable
to the Site ox raxks.l



-63-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Report on the Sri Lanka Construction ConsortiuLm
2.   Rules of the U.K. Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors
3.   Costing Data:  Ministry of Mahaweli Developmert
4.   Schedule of Rates:  Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction
5.   Government of Sri Lanka, National Apprenticeship Act No. 49 of 1971
6.   Government of Sri Lanka, Department of Buildings, Standard
Specifications
7.   U.K. Construction Industry Training Board, Manuals for the
Construction Industry



-64-
Chart I
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Role of Modular Training to Develop a Career Structure
General Manager
Management Training
Part 3.
Contracts Manager
Management Training
Part 2.
New Entrant                                        Site Manager
(Granduate)
Management Training
Part 1.
Technical Planner
vanc  Technical Modules
New Entrant                                                                                     Technical Supervisor
(Technician)
Basic Technical Modules
Practical
Orientation
Modules                                                             Craft Supervisor
Supervisory Skills Part 2
Chargehand (Head Baas2
r  V     ~~Supervisory Skills Part 1
1                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Craftsman
| A~~~dvanced Skills
>                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apprentice
|          S~~~kills Training
|                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Semi-skilled Worker
C         B~~~asic Skills Training
<Selection Tests
UJnskilled %ro*,%T
Worid Bank -22262



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Operation of Modular Training Under the National Apprenticeship Board
The Secretaries' Committee                  Member of                    Ministry of Youth Affairs
for the Construction Industry               Committee                         and Employment
National Training Committee
for the Construction Industry                                             Administrative
Control
TehIn fTechnical
Liaison
The National ApprTnticeship Bnard .i
F          II  I                                                            '   '''''      ''- 
Selectlon                   Training                     Trade                   Registration              Issue and Record
Standards                  Cur.icu'a &                    T as-,                   oT Ski:; ed                 Trade Tust
Standards                  Standards                   Workrs                     CertifEicates
Recruits for Trainingp|lentl
Graduates from                                                                                                                                           W
Universities             |f                                                                                                            
Technicians frornn                                              TRAINING 
Technical instituites    li                                      CENTER         
Schor,l Leavers                      APTITUDE                                                      DE                    SKLE                      TRD   TEST
Selected within the .._.c
Industry by Eiiipicryers                                 5         NST                   
TRAIN ING                                                                                                                        P
From OileFr Emptoym-ent                                      S.                                                                                                                                    t
Unemployed                                                                                                                                               World Bank -22242 



SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Organization of Technical Assistance Team
Ministry of Youth Affairs          i      Secretaries' Committee for               Ministry of Local Government,
and IEnployment                       the Construction Industry                  Housing and Construction
National Training Committee
for the Construction Industry
s~~~~~~~~~~~rjc Cell                                                  l 
National Apprenticeship                              Construction Industry Specialist                                Senior Training Manager
Board                                                (36 months)                                                  (36 months)
Craft Advisors                                               l                                     |a
2 Masons        2 Carpenters        I Plumber         1 Electrician     1 Equipment   |2 Equipment ||2 Technical|
(2x36 months)    t2x36 months)        (1 8 months)       (18 months)       Maintenance    | Operating   ||Management &|
& Small Plant   |    Advisors    ||Supervision|
Advisor      |(2x36 months) || Advisors          |
_                                             i~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~       ~~~36 months)       (2x36 months)|
|National Appretcsi                                                                                                 Senior     ll
| Board Inspetr                                                                                                 Instructors||
g      Panning  
g   t      ~~Instructors (Advanced Crafts) & Instructors (Basic Skills)    | | Instructors  || Isrcos||Mngmn) 
C:t
Expatriate Staff                Local Staff
NOTE: For numbers of Inspectors, Senior Instructors and Instructors to be provided under the project see Table 9, page2;
for instructors from existing establishment who will be used in the project, see Annex 3, Table 5.
World Bank - 22243
S                                                                                                                                    V      



[BRD 15286
slo -                                                                                                                   OCTOBER 1980
W.Ad Aw. 00-VOW, f.
Th=h
..d d
b-d-
-y                                                                                                               SRI LANKA
0 N.                                                  CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
PROPMEDWOFIKSHOPS
PaOPMED ON-SITF LOCATION FOR TRAINING
EQUIPMENTOKRATORS
40      EXISTING DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
TECHNICAL iNSTITLFTES
ci                                                0       SELECTED TOWNS
DIST44ICT BOUNDAFtIES
PROVINCIALROUNDARIES
RIVERS
E P, N,
0               30
KILOMETERS
2b
Mo.. two                                                                                                                                          9..
zi r, n c      ,  V
V-uniya
0     I/
M.da-hchiyo          H.,,6-)Vot-a
A r. 1! r
0                 M
A-. h.p.,.
Cl,radh
N,,
;U
Putt.l..
3  C T
o,  c,             ci
0
P.I.
CIO-
ci    c
Z, T
0
Kflypirty,
L
Kady                                                             *A--,.i
10
N.g..b.
o
W-kpl
7-
o
Nu.
R.ftal-                                                           0   J                                                                                     7--
Anq.tgn.
M-ttskkuliY. 0
6W.1 1 ... Y.
P.1-dull.
0     Op.-ke
K                                                0
Ud.-).
-5
Elp,t,y.
l-A
r
HambQ.toto
M.t-
ar                                                           92-



