OF,MICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1130 CE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Construction Industry Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1130 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               /              , 1981, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBL COF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to the Borrower
on October 17, 1980, the Association granted an advance to the
Borrower in the principal amount of $280,000 for the preparation
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-2-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled
on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall. be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1991, and ending March 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-3-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, economic and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to


﻿-4-
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and. documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Data or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain with powers, resources and staff or composition satis-
factory to the Association:
(a) a Project Cell, under a full-time Project Director
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Association, responsible for
implementation of the Project; and


﻿-5-
(b) a National Training Committee for the Construction
Industry, responsible for the establishment of guidelines with
respect to selection, curricula, testing and other aspects of
construction industry training.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) by June 30, 1982 implement through the National Appren-
ticeship Board standardization satisfactory to the Association of
selection of trainees, training, testing, certification and
registration of construction workers, supervisors and specialists;
and
(b) by June 30, 1983 implement standardization satisfactory
to the Association of construction industry contracting specifi-
cations, procedures and documentation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) make existing training
facilities and staff available for implementation of the Project;
and (ii) adjust in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
training courses related to the construction industry.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall provide allowances satisfac-
tory to the Association, to trainees under the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1982, cause to
be established a Project monitoring and evaluation system satis-
factory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of its
various departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part therof, to maintain separate records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of such departments or agencies.
(b) The Borrower shall cause such departments and agencies
to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (statements
of income and expenses and related statements) in respect of the
Project, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent


﻿-6-
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date              3 / 1/y     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Setion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.09 and 3.10 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following,addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECMINFIN                          21232
Colombo                            FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By                   AM
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 2,250,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
manufactured                            expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                                  80%
procured
(2) Training materials        3,540,000           50%
(3) Consultants'              4,340,000           100%
services
(4) Refunding of advance        240,000           Amount due
for preparation of                           under Section
Project                                      2.02 (b) at
Effective Date
(5) Unallocated                 530,000
TOTAL     10,900,000


﻿- 9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (4) above
shall be in excess of the amount due, the balance.will be trans-
ferred to Category (5).
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals


﻿- 10 -
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procureient of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
inancing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve the
construction industry, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Training
(1) Training of about 45,000, in basic construction skills.
(2) Training of about 9,600 workers to up-grade construction
skills.
(3), Training of about 1,800 in equipment operation and
maintenance.
(4) Training of about 900 in works supervision and quality
control.
(5) Training of about 80 in improved works planning and
management.
(6) Improving methods and procedures related to the con-
struction industry.
Part B:   Equipment and Materials
Provision of equipment and materials for training under Part
A hereof.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
(1) Provision of technical assistance for training under
Part A hereof.
(2) Provision of technical assistance for the construction
industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 13 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Sri Lanka equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount    f customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 14 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment specified by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, may be procured from suppliers of such specified
equipment in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Training materials may be procured after solicitation of
quotations from at least three independent suppliers in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000
each, may be procured in accordance with prudent shopping proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent
of $125,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, intorm
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt'y
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies-of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  J   I     day of
198 ±
FOR SECRETARY


