Report No. PID5609
Project Name                  Guatemala Integrated Financial Management II
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       GTPA48657
Borrower                         Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Tel:    502-232-7170
Fax:    502-251-6514
Date PID Prepared                September 18, 1997
Projected Appraisal              September 24, 1997
Projected Board Date             October 30, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background
Although Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with
a 1996 GDP estimated at $15.9 billion and reported per capita
income of $1,350, its social indicators are among the lowest in the
Latin American region and show only slow improvement, reflecting,
among other things, persistent under-investment in social services
and basic rural infrastructure. Past attempts by the government to
promote poverty alleviation and increase social spending targeted
on the poor have been frustrated by serious institutional
weaknesses within the public sector. Inadequate human resources and
personnel management policies, traditionally weak tax
administration, and antiquated financial management practices have
resulted in an inability to fully deliver basic services,
efficiently manage financial resources, or properly implement
investment programs. Consequently, tax compliance is undermined,
external donor funding is undermined, and ad hoc or improvised
organizations and mechanisms must often substitute, if
inadequately, in service delivery.
To address these problems the Government has initiated a
comprehensive program of public sector reform with the goal of
increasing revenues, transferring to the private sector wherever
appropriate the delivery of public services, and improving the
institutional capacity of the Central Government and decentralized
public sector. These reforms are considered vital to enhance
investment and sustained economic growth, promote social
development and poverty alleviation, and to support the
implementation of the Peace Accords ending years of civil conflict.
2.      Objectives
The project seeks to continue and expand the reforms initiated
under the current integrated financial management project (IFM-I)
with the aim of strengthening the quality of public sector



operations by: (i) increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of
public sector financial management and control; (ii) improving the
allocation and execution of public investment; and (iii) reducing
corruption. Key to the strategy will be the successful expansion to
all ministries and selected decentralized agencies of the ongoing
integrated financial management project currently in implementation
in the Ministry of Finance, the Comptroller General's Office, and
six pilot ministries; the design and implementation of a new public
investment sub-system linked to the new financial management
system; and successful restructuring and institutional
strengthening of the Comptroller General's Office.
3.      Description
The proposed technical assistance project consists of four components:
(i) Extending integrated financial management reforms. This
component would support the deepening of the reforms in various
financial management sub-systems (budget, accounting, cash
management, procurement, and internal audit) initiated under the
current project. It would also support extension of the reformed
system to all central government ministries and key decentralized
agencies through a uniform regulatory framework and modern,
graphics-based information technology. It also would support
information linkages with revenue collection.
(ii) Strengthening the Comptroller General's Office. This component
would support the strengthening of the external audit function
through the institutional strengthening of the CGO. Major
initiatives would include diagnosis of the structure and function
of the CGO and its restructuring, creation of new human resources
management system and training of staff, development of an updated
audit information technology system, as well as assistance in the
development of substantive external audit functions. The Government
believes the above actions are especially necessary given the CGO's
enhanced role in monitoring implementation and ensuring
transparency of key aspects of the recently signed Peace Accords.
(iii) Strengthening Public Investment Function. This component
would support reform of the public investment function and its
integration into the broader financial management system. It would
promote strengthened national capacity in the identification,
formulation, evaluation, execution, implementation, and ex-post
assessment of projects, as well as appropriate inter-institutional
coordination and policy oversight of public investment. It would
create a framework of strengthened financial management
methodologies and practices to ensure an appropriate financial
structure (i.e. equity/debt) for all public investment projects as
well as timely consideration of their implications for recurrent spending.
(iv) Modernizing Public Debt Management. This component would
support a strengthening in the capacity of the Government to
contract and manage internal and external debt in a better
coordinated, transparent, and cost effective manner, linked to the
public sector financial management system.
-2-



4.      Financing
The World Bank loan of approximately $11.5 million would finance an
estimated 85 percent of the total project costs of approximately
$13.5 million. The loan would be used to fund technical assistance,
training, equipment purchases, as well as technical and
professional staff for the project coordination unit. Training,
including formal courses and observational travel, would be a major
focus of the project. Equipment purchases would include the
purchase of computers, software, and related information technology
items. Government resources would help finance training and
logistical expenses.
5.      Implementation
The project would be implemented by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) which is currently implementing the IFM-I project. The PCU is
headed by a Technical Director and a National Director, and staffed
by national and international consultants with experience in
financial management issues. The PCU reports to an Executive
Committee composed of the Minister of Finance and Comptroller
General. It is advised by a Technical Committee composed of
relevant Directors-General within the Government (e.g. for Budget,
Accounting, Treasury).
6.      Sustainability
The combined IFM-I and II projects are expected to have a lasting
impact on the financial operations of Guatemala's public sector. By
supporting a comprehensive modernization and integration of the
core sub-systems, the project will help the Government establish
more effective, efficient, and transparent expenditures. The
project's emphasis on training, the collaboration with national
universities, and the extensive reliance on government officials
and staff in the design and implementation are designed to transfer
technology to the beneficiaries. Improvements in budgetary
transparency and facilitation of a results orientation for both
current and capital spending should help create constituencies (and
shared information) for more effective financial management. The
reforms will also be supported by a legal framework revised through
laws to be presented to Congress.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from other public sector projects and reflected in
the project are: (i) ensuring commitment and ownership of the
overall reform through extensive and deep dialogue with the
authorities in all aspects of project design and implementation,
plus the presentation of the project to a wide audience of senior
Executive Branch and Congressional leaders, civil society, and key
staff to encourage "buy-in" and commitment; and (ii) creation of an
experienced and highly-skilled project coordination unit.
In addition, the project will benefit from lessons learned in
previous Technical Assistance operations including; (i) specific
- 3 -



yet flexible action plans would be developed for each component
that focus on outputs, and define evaluation criteria and
performance indicators; and (ii) criteria would be established to
ensure careful project supervision, especially with respect to
procurement and supervision of consultants, so as to prevent
inadequate budget control and weak management.
Lessons learned from other operations in Guatemala to be addressed
include: (i) the need for close project supervision which will be
facilitated in this case by productive relations with the existing
PCU, the opening of a resident representative office, and frequent
project reviews linked to supervision or preparation of related
public sector management operations; and (ii) the need to assure
adequate counterpart funding, which should be facilitated by
successful implementation of the financial reforms.
8.      Poverty Category
Not Applicable
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project (category C) will have no adverse environmental impact.
10.     Program Objective Categories
The proposed project addresses the issue of economic management by
increasing the public sector's ability to plan and execute in an
efficient, effective, and transparent manner its financial
management and investment programs. To the extent that it
strengthens the public sector's ability to meet social spending and
investment priorities, it will address poverty issues and assist in
the attainment of the goals of the Peace Accords.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 26, 1997.
- 4 -



