Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4269-GU
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Financial Management - II Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4269-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
Page  2
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Acuerdo Gubernativo” means the Presidential Accord No. 217-95 dated May 
17, 1995 of the Borrower which, inter alia, established the Executive Committee; 
(b)
“Administrative Arrangement” means the contractual arrangement dated 
April 6, 1995 entered into between MOF and the Comptroller’s Office which stipulates, 
inter alia, the terms under which MOF and the Comptroller’s Office have agreed to 
cooperate in the carrying out of the SIAF and SAG under IFM-I, as such arrangement 
will be amended as provided in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
“BOG” means  the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banco de Guatemala); 
(d)
“Comptroller’s Office” means the Office of the Borrower’s Comptroller 
General (Contraloría General de Cuentas) established pursuant to the provisions of 
Chapter III of Title V of the Borrower’s Constitution;
(e)
“Comptroller’s Office Acuerdo” means the Acuerdo No. A-10/95 issued by 
the Comptroller’s Office on April 6, 1995 establishing the terms of reference for SAG; 
(f)
“Decree No. 101-97” means  Decreto No. 101-97 of the Borrower dated 
October 16, 1997 duly published on the official gazette on November 20,1997 which 
established, inter alia, the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the 
Borrower’s budget;  
(g)
“Executive Committee” means the committee established by the Acuerdo 
Gubernativo; 
(h)
“IFM-I” means the Integrated Financial Management Project financed in 
part with the proceeds of Loan No. 3895-GU as provided in the Loan Agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank on January 22, 1996, as amended;
(i)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith setting forth: (i) a list of non-financial public sector 
institutions to  benefit from the Project; (ii) the objectives, principles and 
characteristics of the legal framework referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; (iii) the Project’s performance indicators and targets; and (iv) 
the scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement, as 
such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(j)
“INFOM” means the Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento 
Municipal) of the Borrower established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1132;  
Page  3
(k)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance (Ministerio de 
Finanzas Públicas); 
(l)
“SAG” means the Borrower’s Government Auditing System (Sistema de 
Auditoría Gubernamental), a system to improve the efficiency, accountability and 
transparency of the financial control of the Borrower’s public sector;
(m)
“SIAF” means the Borrower’s Integrated Financial Management System 
(Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera), a system to improve the efficiency, 
accountability and transparency of the financial management of the Borrower’s public 
sector; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
“UDAI” means the internal audit unit to be established in each of the 
non-financial public sector institutions referred to in Part A.2 (a) of the Project; 
(p)
“UDAF” means the financial management unit to be established in each of 
the non-financial public sector institutions referred to in Part A.2 (a) of the 
Project; 
(q)
“UNDP” means the United Nations Development Programme; and 
(r)
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement entered into between MOF and the 
Comptroller’s Office on behalf of the Borrower and UNDP dated March 4, 1996 whereby 
UNDP is acting as the Borrower’s agent for the procurement of goods and services under 
IFM-I, as such agreement will be amended as provided in Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement in order to enable UNDP to continue acting in the same capacity under the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($15,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in BOG on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
Page  4
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Executive Committee (in accordance with the Acuerdo 
Gubernativo and the Administrative Arrangement), with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial management and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
Page  5
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project taking into the account 
the performance indicators and targets set forth in Annex D to the Implementation 
Letter. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than thirty days after the conclusion 
of each calendar semester during the implementation of the Project, starting in 1998, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of 
presentation of such report.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year 
of Project implementation prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (including a 
timetable), satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the calendar year following the date of presentation of such 
plan; and (b) thereafter carry out such plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than March 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999, review jointly with the Bank the progress made by 
the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of 
the Project, based on the indicators and the corresponding reports referred to in 
Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement, respectively.  As part of each such review 
the Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to make adjustments in Project implementation.  In such event, the Borrower shall not 
later than forty five days after the conclusion of each such review furnish such 
action plan to the Bank and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, 
such action plan in accordance with its terms. 
(b)
As part of the annual review to be held not later than March 31, 2000, 
the Borrower shall carry out with the Bank a Project implementation mid-term review of 
such scope as set forth in Annex E to the Implementation Letter.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the UNDP Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are:
(a)
That the Comptroller’s Office shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Administrative Arrangement.
(b)
That the Acuerdo Gubernativo and/or the Comptroller’s Office Acuerdo 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in 
such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower 
to carry out the Project.
(c)
That Decree No. 101-97 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to achieve the 
objectives of the Project.
(d)
That the legal framework referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or 
not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability 
of the Borrower to carry out Part B of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
That any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b)
That any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That the Administrative Arrangement has been amended in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank to enable the Borrower to carry out the Project. 
Page  7
(b)
That the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the plan for 1998 referred to 
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement. 
(c)
That the UNDP Agreement has been amended in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose indicated in Section 1.02 (r) of this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date December 10, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finances Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico,  Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIP
Guatemala, Guatemala
9207 MINFIP GU
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Page  8
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
6,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% 
of local expenditures
(2)
Consultants' services
(a) under the Project
5,800,000)
other than under Part B (d) 
  )
through (f) of the Project
  )
100%
  )
(b) under Part B (d) 
1,000,000)
through (f) of the Project
  )
(3)
Training
  600,000
100%
(4)
Operating Costs
  900,000
100% until withdrawals 
under this Category have
reached an aggregate 
amount of 325,000; 85% 
until withdrawals under 
this 
Category have reached
an aggregate amount of 
$650,000; and 70% 
thereafter.
(5)
Unallocated
1,400,000
TOTAL 
      15,700,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower in the carrying out of the training activities 
under the Project, including the travel and per-diem of the trainees; and 
(d)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Executive 
Committee and its support staff in connection with the carrying out of its functions 
and responsibilities as provided in the Acuerdo Gubernativo, including office 
furniture, office supply, office rent and the salaries for such support staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
Page  9
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) and (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but not before twelve months from the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of the activities under Part B 
(d) through (f) of the Project, unless: (i) a legal framework has been established 
(substantially in accordance with the objectives, principles and characteristics set 
forth in Annex C to the Implementation Letter) concerning the institutional structure 
of the Comptroller’s Office; (ii) the Comptroller’s Office has ratified the 
Administrative Arrangement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) 
the Comptroller’s Office counsel has prepared and furnished to the Bank an opinion, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the validity of the ratification mentioned 
in (ii) herein. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent with the exception of the first two contracts for goods 
to be awarded under Part C.1 (a) of Section I of Schedule for 4 to this Agreement; (b) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $200,000 
equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) Training and Operating Costs set forth in Categories 
(3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to continue improving the efficiency, 
accountability and transparency of the financial management and control functions of 
the Borrower’s public sector  through the implementation of the SIAF and SAG; (b) to 
continue improving the delivery of public services by supporting the deconcentration 
of the non-financial public sector institutions (listed in Annex A to the 
Implementation Letter) of the primary responsibility for management of their 
corresponding financial resources; (c) to improve the allocation and execution of  
public investment; and (d) to establish appropriate mechanisms of internal control in 
public sector spending to avoid corruption.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Integrated Financial Management Reform
1.
Improvement of the methodologies in the areas described below to implement the 
financial management subsystems (designed and being implemented under Part A of the 
IFM-I) in the non-financial public sector institutions, through the provision of 
technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of goods, and 
thereafter implementation of such subsystems in such institutions: 
(a)
Budgeting: (i) testing and improvement of the new budgeting-by results 
methodology; (ii) assisting the Borrower in the preparation and execution of its 
annual budgets for the years 1999, 2000 and 2001; and (iii) design of additional 
indicators to monitor the Borrower’s performance during the execution of its annual 
budgets;
(b)
Accounting: preparation of accounting manuals for the non-financial 
public sector institutions listed in Annex B to the Implementation Letter;
(c)
Cash Management: (i) improvement of the single bank account mechanism to 
manage the flow of funds resulting from the execution of the Borrower’s annual 
budgets; (ii) improvement of the methodology which determines the payment quotas to 
Page  10
the public sector during the execution of the Borrowers’ annual budgets; (iii) design 
and implementation of a direct communication system to be adopted by MOF, BOG and the 
banking sector in order to enable MOF and BOG to obtain information concerning the 
amount of public revenues collected by the banking sector on behalf of the Borrower; 
and (iv) expansion of the scope of the electronic funds transfer methodology used by 
the public sector institutions to pay their financial obligations; and
(d)
Procurement: (i) design and implementation of a procurement system to be 
applied by the Borrower’s public sector; and (ii) design and implementation of a 
system to manage the Borrower’s fixed assets and storage facilities.  
2.
(a)
 Deconcentration of the Borrower’s financial management responsibility 
and transfer of such responsibility to the non-financial public sector institutions 
(listed in Annex A to the Implementation Letter) to manage their corresponding 
financial resources; and 
(b)
establishment of UDAFs and UDAIs in each public sector institution 
referred to in (a) herein, including the provision of training to the personnel in 
such units. 
3.
Adoption of the Borrower’s computer-based subsystems  (designed and being 
implemented under Part B of the IFM-I) by the non-financial public sector institutions 
listed in Annex A to the Implementation Letter. 
4.
Carrying out of a campaign to inform the public concerning the integrated 
financial management and control reform being carried under IMF-I and under the 
Project. 
5.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of INFOM to provide services to the 
Borrower’s municipalities with respect to integrated financial management through the 
provision of technical assistance and training.
Part B:
Strengthening of the Comptroller’s Office
Strengthening of the organizational structure and operational capacity of the 
Comptroller’s Office, through, inter alia: (a) the design and implementation of 
national external audit plans; (b) the design and implementation of an audit 
information technology system; (c) the provision of training to its professional 
personnel on external auditing activities; (d) the preparation of operational manuals 
based on its organizational structure; (e) the design and implementation of a human 
resources system; (f) the promotion of outsourcing of selected audit activities; and 
(g) the provision of training to its personnel on its organizational structure.
Part C:
Public Investment  
1.
Design and implementation of a public investment information system. 
2.
Design and implementation of uniform methodologies and criteria (including, 
inter alia, environmental and social criteria) for public investment project 
identification, design, supervision, evaluation and post-assessment. 
3.
Design of guidelines for public investment project management. 
4.
Redefinition of the public investment mandate of the Borrower’s public sector 
institutions, including the provision of training to the personnel of each such 
institution. 
5.
Design of guidelines for the preparation of annual and multi-annual public 
investment plans. 
6.
Carrying out of a consultation process with, inter alia, the local governments 
and communities during the preparation and implementation of the annual and 
multi-annual public investment plans.
Part D:
Public Debt Management 
1.
Design and implementation of a methodology to calculate the fees to be paid by 
the Borrower to BOG for the services provided by the latter to the Borrower. 
Page  11
2.
(a) Design and implementation of an organizational structure within MOF for 
public debt management; and (b) provision of training to the personnel of MOF assigned 
to perform services within the new structure mentioned in (a) herein. 
3.
Design and implementation of a public debt management information system.
Part E:
Project Coordination 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the Executive Committee through the 
provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and utilization of goods 
required therefor. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
July 15, 2003
330,000 
January 15, 2004
340,000
July 15, 2004
350,000 
January 15, 2005
360,000
July 15, 2005
370,000 
January 15, 2006
380,000
July 15, 2006
395,000 
January 15, 2007
405,000
July 15, 2007
415,000 
January 15, 2008
430,000
July 15, 2008
445,000 
January 15, 2009
455,000
July 15, 2009
470,000 
January 15, 2010
485,000
July 15, 2010
500,000 
January 15, 2011
515,000
July 15, 2011
530,000 
January 15, 2012
545,000
July 15, 2012
560,000 
January 15, 2013
580,000
July 15, 2013
595,000 
January 15, 2014
615,000
July 15, 2014
635,000 
January 15, 2015
650,000
July 15, 2015
670,000 
January 15, 2016
695,000
July 15, 2016
715,000 
January 15, 2017
735,000
July 15, 2017
760,000 
January 15, 2018
770,000
____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
Page  12
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically-Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Procurement of all goods under this Part C.1 shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (b) the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.1 (a) of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for activities to be carried out under the Project costing in the 
aggregate not more than $5,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the terms of reference for the 
assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  14
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $300,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions  shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $2,400,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
Page  15
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures, as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
