                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25499

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42690)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.7 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                             GUATEMALA

                                                 FOR A

                  SECOND INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              April 7, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                        Currency Unit =

                              FISCAL YEAR


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          -   Country Assistance Strategy
CGC          -   Comptroller General's Office
             -   (Contraloría General de Cuentas)
CUR          -   Single Recorded Receipts
                 (Comprobantes Únicos de Registro)
DCA          -   Contracting and Procurement Directorate
                 (Dirección de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones)
DCE          -   National Accounting Directorate
                 (Dirección de Contabilidad del Estado)
DCP          -   Public Credit Directorate
DTP          -   Budget Directorate
                 (Dirección Técnica de Presupuesto)
DTN          -   National Treasury Directorate
FARAH        -   Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FIS          -   Social Investment Fund
FONAPAZ      -   National Fund for Peace
                 (Fondo Nacional para la PAZ)
FONTIERRAS   -   Land Fund
                 Fondo de Tierras
IDB          -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFM          -   Integrated Financial Management
INFOM        -   Municipal Development Institute
                 (Instituto de Fomento Municipal)
IGSS         -   Guatemalan Social Security Institute
                 (Instituto Guatemalteco de Seguridad Social)
INTECAP      -   Technical Institute for Training and Productivity
                 (Instituto Técnico de Capacitación y Productividad)
MCIV         -   Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing
MINEDUC      -   Ministry of Education
MPF          -   Ministry of Public Finance
PCU          -   Project Coordination Unit
PIP          -   Public Investment Program
PIR          -   Public Investment Review
SAG          -   Government Accounting System
                 Sistema Auditoria Gubernamental
SAT          -   Superintendency of Tax Administration
SEGEPLAN     -   Secretariat of Planning and Programming
SIAD         -   Procurement Information System

                      (Sistema Informática de Adquisiciones)
SIAF           -      Integrated Financial Management System
SICOIN         -      Integrated Government Accounting System
                      (Sistema Contable Integrado)
SIGADE         -      Debt Management System
SIGEPRO        -      Project Management System
SISEC          -      Human Resources Management Software System
SNIP           -      National Public Investment Information System
                      (Sistema Informático Nacional de Inversión Pública)
UDAF           -      Financial Management Unit
UDAI           -      Internal Audit Unit
UNCTAD         -      United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP           -      United Nations Development Programme

                           Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                Country Manager/Director:     Jane Armitage
                 Sector Manager/Director:     Ronald E. Myers
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mario Sangines

                                        GUATEMALA
                                 GT INTEG FIN MGMT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P048657                                                      Project Name: GT INTEG FIN MGMT II
Team Leader: Mario Francisco Sangines                                    TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: GT INTEG FIN MGMT II                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-42690
   Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                                          Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Other accountability/anti-corruption (P); Debt management and
                            fiscal substainability (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/30/1997                                        Effective:                         11/19/1998
   Appraisal:    09/17/1997                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/23/1997                                         Closing: 09/30/2002               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                                       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Ronald E. Myers                                     Ronald E. Myers
Team Leader at ICR:        Mario Sangines
ICR Primary Author(s): Albert Amos


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No




Introduction

The Second Integrated Financial Management Project (IFM-II, Loan 4269-GU) continued and expanded
the activities carried out under the Integrated Financial Management project (IFM-I, Loan 3895-GU) to
include the line and autonomous agencies not covered under the first intervention. Critical activities
achieved under IFM-I included: (i) creation of a total of 6 financial management units (UDAF) within the
ministries of Education, Health, Communications and Transportation, Agriculture, Finance, and the
Comptroller General's Office; (ii) modification of the legal and regulatory system for management and
control systems, including passage of the Organic Budget Law in 1998; (iii) the introduction of
results-based using financial and physical indicators; and (iv) the installation of the Integrated
Governmental Accounting System (SICOIN), in 6 pilot ministries. During its implementation, the IFM-I
was cited as a best practice project and led to knowledge sharing between the GoG and governments in
Bolivia, Chile, and Nicaragua.

Implementation of the IFM-I project formally closed in June 1999, nearly one year ahead of schedule.
There was a roughly 7 month period where the implementation of the IFM-I and IFM-II overlapped. By
building on previous reforms, the IFM-II continued the general philosophy of the IFM-I, which centered on
normative centralization and operational decentralization to improve operational efficiency and increase
transparency. In this manner, the IFM-II widened and deepened the reform process began under the
previous project. Key achievements that occurred during the implementation of the IFM-II included:

· Establishing 43 additional UDAFs in the line and autonomous agencies;
· Establishing 15 internal auditing units in the line agencies and public sector entities;
· Reducing average time to produce annual budgets by 66 percent;
· Reducing the number of steps from contract signing to final payment from 130 to 12;
· Eliminating 1.8 million government issued checks, generating roughly US$2.5 million in annual cost
savings;

The IFM-II formed the second phase of the Integrated Financial Management System (SIAF) and the
Government Accounting System (SAG)--the SIAF-SAG program.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed to continue and expand the reforms initiated under the previous Integrated
Financial Management project with the aim of: (i) increasing the efficiency and transparency of public
sector financial management and control; (ii) improving the delivery of public services through the
deconcentration to line agencies of the primary responsibility for management of their financial resources;
(iii) improving the execution of public investment; and (iv) establishing and/or strengthening mechanisms to
reduce corruption in public sector spending. The loan was intended to enable the Government to extend
these reforms to the rest of the non-financial public sector, implement a new public investment subsystem
linked to the IFM system, and significantly strengthen the capacity of the Comptroller General's office
(CGC).

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
To support the development objectives, the project consisted of the following five institution building,
policy reform, and project management components:

1.       Extending Integrated Financial Management Reforms. This component supported the deepening



                                                      - 2 -

of the reforms in various financial management subcomponent systems (budget, accounting, cash
management, and procurement) initiated under the Integrated Financial Management Project (IFM-I)
(3895-GU). The project also supported the extension of a uniform regulatory framework and modern,
graphics based information technology to the 26 entities in the non-financial sector public sector that were
not covered under the previous loan as well as the 6 agencies that benefited from the IFM-1 project. In
addition, training was provided to the National Institute for Municipal Development to encourage the
extension of these reforms at the municipal government level.

2.       Strengthening the Comptroller General's Office. Project activities were designed to strengthen
the external audit function through the institutional strengthening of the Comptroller General Office (CGC).
Major initiatives included: (i) the diagnosis of the structure and function of the CGC (ii) its restructuring;
(iii) creation of a new human resources management system and staff training (iv) development of updated
audit information technology system, and assistance in the development of a substantive external audit
functions.

3.       Strengthening the public investment function. Through technical assistance, information
technology, and training this component supported the reform of the public investment function and its
integration into the broader financial management system. It was intended to focus on strengthening
national capacity for the identification, formulation, evaluation, execution, implementation, and ex-post
evaluation of project, development of public investment programs and appropriate inter-institutional
coordination and policy oversight of public investment.

4.       Strengthening Public Debt Management. This component focused on strengthening the capacity
of the government to contract and manage internal and external debt in a better coordinated, transparent,
and cost effective manner, linked to the public sector financial management system.

5.       Project Coordination. Project coordination was the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), which was responsible for overseeing project development, monitoring contract implementation,
tracking disbursements, preparing semi-annual reports, and providing assistance to the Bank's supervision
mission. The project supported and strengthened the PCU in carrying out these activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan agreement was amended on June 28, 2000, which incorporated the following modifications: (i)
increased percentage of Bank financing to 100 percent for local expenditures for goods under Category 1 in
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 since the procurement agent is a tax-exempt entity; (ii) reallocated a portion of
the Loan to finance additional training activities and goods needed for the restructuring of the CGC; and
(iii) permitted the financing of a payroll system for the Borrower's civil service to be linked to the project.
In addition, funds were reallocated among categories during implementation. This reallocation among
project categories was approved on June 28, 2000. The total amounts by component are listed below:

(1) Extending Integrated Financial Management Reforms:              $8.4 million
(2) Strengthening the Comptroller General's Office:                 $3.7 million
(3) Modernizing Public Debt Management:                             $1.2 million
(4) Strengthening Public Investment Function:                       $2.0 million
(5) Project Coordination:                                           $1.1 million

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A QAG review was not carried out. The ICR finds the quality of entry to be satisfactory. The project is
largely consistent with sector needs at appraisal and is strongly supported the 1998 CAS objective of



                                                      - 3 -

making the public sector more effective tasks. The project is part of a larger program that includes the
IFM-I, IFM-III and the Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan (4225-GU). In all, these loans
support a well-defined program for improving efficiency and increasing transparency within the public
sector. This has had the secondary impact of improving the management and efficiency of the entire lending
portfolio. The CAS also emphasized: (i) building social cohesion and strengthening participatory
decision-making; and (ii) reducing poverty and exclusion; and (iii) raising economic activity and
maintaining stability.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives is rated as being satisfactory, overall. An analysis of the project
objectives and components, should be viewed within the context of the situation prior to the implementation
of the SIAF-SAG program, which encompasses three separate IFM projects. Prior to the SIAF-SAF
program, neither line ministries nor the Ministry of Public Finance (MPF) were able to accurately track
financial obligations held by the public sector, including the acquisition of goods, contractor payments, and
internal and external debt. In addition, accounting, budget, and treasury functions were carried out in the
absence of reliable, accurate, and timely financial information. This limited the ability of the line ministries
and autonomous entities to obtain an accurate grasp of their respective fiscal positions. As a result, MPF
had a difficult time compiling an aggregate representation of public sector finances. Public sector activities
were also characterized by a lack of transparency. Furthermore, the incentive structure within government
entities placed an emphasis on spending as much as possible to receive larger budget allocations for the
next fiscal year. Budgets were prepared with little regard for the efficient use of resources and allocations
were made based on political decisions, typically circumventing the official approval process. Although
work remains to be done, the GoG has made tremendous strides in improving the efficiency and
transparency of its operations. These achievements have been impelled, in large part, by the IFM-I and
IFM-II projects financed by the Bank.

(1)      Increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector financial management and controls

Significant progress was made in regard to increasing and strengthening the efficiency and transparency of
public sector financial management and controls initiated under the IFM-I. Specifically, IFM-II supported
the development, implementation, and extension of modern financial management, budget, and accounting
systems that improved operational efficiency, increased the accuracy and reliability of financial
information, and provided access to real-time data to a number of public sector institutions. To maximize
the benefits of implementing updated financial systems, the project also supported instutitutional
reengineering of the MPF, the updating of underlying legal and regulatory framework, and staff training.
These results were achieved using readily available technologies. It should be noted, however, the
administrative and technical capacity tends to vary widely among the line agencies covered under the
intervention.

These activities have led to significant time and cost savings in the provision of financial management
activities. In particular, the time needed to prepare the national budget has decreased an estimated 66
percent during the first 2 years of the project. In addition, the Government is able to record financial
transactions, prepare budget projections, and reconcile accounting data in close to real time. In particular,
accounting reconciliation for a given fiscal year can now be completed in January of the following year,
whereas it previously it took several months to complete. The automation of the budget and accounting
systems have increased the accuracy and reliability by reducing errors to nearly negligible levels and by
creating mechanism for verifying the information entered. Regarding improvement in the cash management



                                                     - 4 -

system, the number of steps from contract signing to final payment has been reduced from 130 to 12 during
the implementation of the SIAF-SAG program.

(2)      Improving the delivery of public services through the deconcentration to line agencies of the
primary responsibility for management of their financial resources

Significant progress has been achieved toward the deconcentration of financial management activities to
line agencies. The project supported the creation and the institutional strengthening of the financial
management units (UDAFs), including the UDAFs that were created under the IFM-I project. There are
presently 43 UDAFs in the line agencies and 6 in the autonomous entities. The latter includes the Municipal
Development Institute (INFOM), the Technical Institute for Training and Productivity (INTECAP), the
Guatemalan Social Security Institute (IGSS), the Judiciary Agency (Organismo Judicial), Puerto Quetzal
Corporation, and the Superintendency of Tax Administration (SAT). Each of the UDAFs are responsible
for carrying out monthly and annual accounting reconciliation, budget preparation, treasury and cash
management functions, and procurement for their respective institutions. The UDAFs are connected with
their MPF counterparts through the SICOIN system. The SICION system is linked through high-speed,
fiber optic cables, and serves as the main backbone for the entire institutional network. A number of
ministries have further deconcentrated financial management activities through the establishment of two or
more UDAFs that report to a central UDAF within a given ministry.

(3)      Improving the execution of public investment

Significant progress was achieved in regard to improving the management and administration of public
investment, especially in terms of reducing processing time, improving resource utilization, and decreasing
variability in budget estimates. This was achieved, in large part, through the implementation of National
Public Investment Information System (SNIP), which has increased the reliability and accuracy of
investment data. In particular, new investments are now consistently evaluated based on financial or
economic criteria, which is improving quality at entry. The implementation of the SNIP has improved the
prioritization of public investments as well as reduced the prevalence of major cost overruns. These
achievements have supported better utilization of investment capital provided by domestic sources and
international institutions. Line agencies are able to carry out the same or even greater amount of services
and investments despite the fact that budgets have remained relatively constant in the past few years.
Nevertheless, additional work is needed to improve linkages between the SNIP with the budgetary ceilings
of line agencies to provide additional control over spending.

(4)      Establishing and strengthening mechanisms to reduce corruption in public sector spending

The process of improving transparency within public sector institutions was begun under the IFM-I and has
been significantly widened and deepened during the implementation of the IFM-II project. This impact has
been substantiated by the most recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), prepared in
June 2002, which concluded that the probability of the improper or inefficient use of funds has been
reduced dramatically. Under the previous financial management system, budget forecasts bore no relation
to actual expenditures and there were strong incentives toward increasing spending in order to obtain higher
annual budgetary allocations. Within this system, some budgetary allocations went untracked. Through the
development of the SICOIN and the subsequent integration between accounting, budget, and treasury
functions within the MPF and line ministries, the GoG is better able to accurately track expenditures
against budget projections for each fiscal year. This has improved the generation of evidence necessary to
detect potential discrepancies.




                                                     - 5 -

In addition, the improvement of the cash management system, and the modernization of the National
Treasury Directorate (DTN) within MPF has also supported increased transparency by placing and
strengthening internal controls over public sector expenditures. This was supported by the development of a
Single Account (Fondo Comun Cuenta Única Nacional) and a payment authorization system that requires
the provision of official documentation (Single Recorded Receipts-CURs) before payments can be made.
This process has reduced managerial discretion regarding contractor payments, increased accountability
through the development of a more rigid review process, and provided greater transparency in payment
authorizations. Additional efforts to further improve transparency in public expenditures are included under
the proposed Integrity and Responsibility Law (Ley de Probidad y Responaibilidades) and the proposed
Procurement Law (Ley de Adquisiciones), which were presented to the National Congress during 2002 and
are currently under review.

Nevertheless, auditing and enforcement functions remain relatively weak. A recent review found the
following deficiencies: (i) inadequate management of special and rotating funds; (ii) reconciliation of bank
statements that are poorly done and/or in arrears; (iii) payment for goods and services that were not
provided; (iii) payment made through CURs without the proper supporting documentation, (iv)
non-budgetary usage of funds; and (v) weak internal controls in line agencies. In addition, evidence of
potential wrong-doing has not been followed up with the appropriate sanctions, which need to be further
strengthened to create the necessary disincentives for reducing corruption in public sector spending. The
relatively slow progress in strengthening internal control is related, in part, to the delays in restructuring
and strengthening of the Comptroller General's Office (CGC) as well as the creation of fewer than expected
internal audit offices (UDAIs) under the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall implementation of the project components is rated as satisfactory. The project has significantly
deepened and extended the reforms initiated under IFM-1, especially in the improvement of accounting,
financial management, budget, cash management, and public debt systems. The project also put into place
and strengthened internal control mechanisms across government entities. These achievements are tempered
somewhat by the relatively slow progress achieved in regarding to the restructuring of the Comptroller
General's Office, the creation of the UDAI, implementation of activities designed to improve public
procurement, and the integration of diverse financial systems. A detailed description of the results achieved
under each component is listed in the subsequent paragraphs.

1.       Extending Integrated Financial Management Reforms.

Under the IFM-I project, new financial management software was developed and installed in the budget,
accounting, and treasury offices of the MPF and 6 line ministries. This software improved accounting
reconciliation, permitted the tracking of past and future budget requirements against performance
indicators, and tracked payments by unit recipient, amount, time, region, etc. In light of these reforms, the
IFM-II project sought to extend the SIAF-SAG system to all government ministries, directorates, and
autonomous government agencies not covered under the first intervention.

Financial management deconcentration. By the end of the IFM-II project, UDAFs have been created in
43 government entities and the 6 autonomous entities. Each of the UDAFs are responsible for managing
accounting, budget and treasury functions for its respective institution. The project has supported the
UDAFs in hiring and adequately training staff, installing related hardware and software systems, and
developing operational norms and guidelines. The process has largely been centered around the
development of the SICOIN to link accounting, budget and treasury function within the MPFas well as
between the UDAF and the MPF. Implementation of the SICOIN necessitated the reengineering and



                                                    - 6 -

reorganization of the MPF to reduce operational inefficiencies stemming from staff redundancies and the
poor tracking of financial data.

This re-engineering process within MPF necessitated the following: (i) the redefinition of operational
processes; (ii) the redefinition of job descriptions to better align job responsibilities with the new
procedures; and (iii) significant staff reductions. The latter was achieved through voluntary and early
retirements. It should be noted that a number of former MPF personnel ended up staffing the newly-formed
UDAFs within the line agencies, which typically offered higher salaries. At the same time, MPF was able
to centralize accounting, budget, and treasury functions within the public sector. To a lesser extent, the
MPF has begun the process of decentralizing financial management functions to departments and
municipalities. Through grant funds, this process has been piloted in 4 municipalities (Escuintla, Amatitlá
n, Siquinalá, and Antigua Guatemala), and has involved the partial implementation of the SICOIN system.
Decentralization of financial management functions will be further supported the under the IFM-III project.


The project also supported the development of software and organizational manuals. In addition, the
appraisal target of providing technical assistance and training to 400 public employees (200 in MPF and
CGC each) has been exceeded. By project end, approximately 16,000 representatives from line agencies,
autonomous institutions and municipalities received financial management training that was tailored to
address local conditions. This training was conducted in conjunction with universities and civil society
organizations. The provision of a uniform training program regarding the use of financial systems across a
wide range of public sector institutions is, however, an extensive process and remains ongoing. As a result,
the level of administrative and technical capacity tends to differ markedly among the line agencies.

Accounting system. A key component of the SICOIN was the accounting module that was installed and
centralized in the National Accounting Directorate (DCE) within the MPF and directly linked to the budget
and treasury modules. These modules have also been installed in the UDAFs. Under the IFM-I project, a
common accounting framework was developed, which was based on cash and accrual methods. This was
implemented across all ministries and public sector institutions. In an effort to deepen and widen these
reforms, the implementation of the SICOIN was installed throughout most of the public sector at the
national level. In addition, the following activities were supported by the IFM-II: (i) the modification of
accounting procedures to better reflect outstanding commitments; (ii) the preparation and dissemination of
accounting manuals to the UDAFs; and (iii) the provision of technical assistance and training to staff in the
central government and decentralized entities.

The previous system was largely inefficient and was error prone and rarely failed to provide balanced
accounts. In this manner, the installation of the SICOIN has dramatically improved the ability of MPF to
track revenues and expenditures as well as facilitated the annual reconciliation of public sector accounts.
However, the implementation of the SICOIN required the reengineering of the MPF, so that the accounting,
budget, and treasury functions could be undertaken more efficiently and allow for the implementation of
accounting controls. This process led to a surge of early retirements in MPF. Within DCE, staff size was
reduced from 42 to 6 professionals from 1997 to 2002. It should be noted, however, that a number of
departed staff joined the UDAFs, which urgently needed trained personnel. In this manner, the
reengineering process concurrently strengthened the administrative and technical capacity of the DCE and
the line agencies.

Budget. Deconcentration of budget preparation has largely been achieved, which has improved efficiency
and transparency of the budget process. A critical step was the passage of the 1998 Organic Budget Law (



                                                     - 7 -

Ley Organica de Presupuesto), which mandated that line ministries move to using budgeting-by-results
methodology. Although later than anticipated at appraisal, the FY01 budget was the first budget that began
to use this methodology and included pilot financial and physical indicators prepared by the ministries. The
use of budgeting-by-results methodology is expected to be expanded and deepened under the IFM-III
project. Moreover, the SICOIN system has transformed budget preparation into an extremely dynamic
process in which line agencies are required to determine quarterly expenditures within set authorization
limits. To facilitate the decision-making process, the UDAFs within each line agency receive and transfer
relevant financial information to the MPF in real time. As a result of these reforms, the average time to
prepare the national budget decreased by 66 percent between 1997 and 1999.

In terms of information flow, the DCE receives this information, which is used to prepare consolidated
financial statements. In addition, the National Treasury (DTN) evaluates prospective expenditures against
assigned budgetary limits and processes these payments, electronically. This has created an additional
control within the Government to ensure that line agencies do not exceed authorized limits. However, MPF
still needs to ensure that all line agencies register their respective budgetary quotas. The SICOIN also needs
to be updated to include requests to modify budgetary quotas, including rationales for approving or
rejecting budgetary increases.

An evaluation department was created within the Budget Directorate (DTP) within MPF, which began
reviewing budget preparation within the line ministries in 2001 in accordance with the performance
indicators developed at appraisal. Budget reviews take place 3 times per year. Beginning in early 2002, the
budget module was implemented within the SIAF system to permit the monitoring and evaluation
throughout the central government. From a management perspective, budget issues are discussed through
the Budget Planning and Implementation Committee (COPEP) which consists of DCE, the Public Credit
Directorate (DCP), and the National Treasury Directorate (DTN). COPEP is responsible for the review of
upcoming and outstanding commitments on a quarterly and monthly basis. To strengthen its functions, a
plan to restructure COPEP has been prepared and is currently under review. A review and change of
COPEP's functions would be essential to improve budget management.

Cash management and treasury. The project supported the extension of the monthly cash management
systems to the entire non-financial public sector as well as the creation of a single account system, which
has minimized duplication, lowered transaction costs, and reduced financing costs. By project end, a
majority of government accounts held in the Bank of Guatemala and the local financial system were
consolidated into a single account, eliminating 1,500 active accounts. Beginning in 2000, line agencies
could also access their financial information directly through the Internet to provide real time information
regarding the status of outstanding payments.

The project also significantly improved operational efficiency in the verification and authorization of public
sector expenditures, including contractor payments. In particular, the previous cash management system
operated by the National Treasury Directorate (DTN) had been extremely inefficient requiring 130 steps
from contract signing to final payment. The process itself took about a month, on average, and could take
as long as 2 years. At which point, the contractor was required by law to resubmit its documentation for
requesting payment. With the SICOIN system installed during the SIAF-SAG program, the number of
steps and the average time between contract signature and contractor payment were reduced to 12 steps and
1 to 2 days, respectively. This had the added benefit of ending a costly "floating debt" practice to meet
contract payments. The government is also in the process of developing an Internet-based system in the
National Treasury to improve the tracking of third party payments.

In addition, the integration between accounting, budget and treasury functions within SICOIN system has


                                                        - 8 -

improved liquidity within the public sector. Linking public sector expenditure data directly with the
accounting and budget systems has created an important feedback mechanism for better managing cash
payments, detecting surpluses, and meeting potential monthly shortfalls. In this manner, the GoG can better
determine the availability of funds before payments come due. The GoG has also reduced its reliance on
paper checks with the development of an electronic transfer system that deposits supplier payments and
civil servant salaries directly into the banking system. The upgraded system has reduced the number of
authorizations needed for issuing checks. At the end of the project, nearly all supplier payments and 70
percent of civil servant salaries were processed within the banking system by the line agencies and
autonomous intuitions participating in the project. Cost savings related to the elimination of 1.8 million
government issued checks is estimated at roughly US$2.5 million annually. However, the Ministry of
Education, which was an early entrant into the SIAF-SAG program, continues to pay roughly half of its
teachers using checks.

On the revenue side, the collection of fiscal income through the SAT and the creation of the single account
have improved the ability of the GoG to track revenues entering into the public sector. The SICOIN system
also allows the UDAFs and MPF to evaluate existing operational activities and develop budgets for the
next fiscal year.

Procurement. The project supported the development and partial implementation of the Procurement
Information System (SIAD) within the MPF and in the 49 UDAFs. One of the SIAD modules that is up
and running on a within the DCE is a centralized information system that tracks the purchase and
ownership of goods and fixed assets held by the public sector. A survey that elaborated profiles for
acquisitions carried out by the public sector was used to develop a draft proposal for a procurement
information system. Operational manuals were also developed and disseminated. Technical assistance was
also provided to strengthen and restructure the Contracting and Procurement Directorate (DCA).

However, additional modules designed to streamline the tender process for public sector procurement using
electronic commerce, track procurement expenditures, and facilitate asset revaluation were not completed.
More importantly, the SIAD within the UDAFs is not connected with the main system. As a result, efforts
to deconcentrate these activities to the UDAFs are still ongoing. Moreover, the Procurement Law (Ley de
Adquisiciones), which was submitted to Congressional in 2002, remains under review. Additional
procurement related activities that will be financed under IFM-III, which may include the redesign of the
SIAD.

2.       Strengthening the Comptroller General's Office. The activities planned at appraisal have only
partially been achieved. The is largely due to significant delays in the passage of the Comptroller General
Law (Ley Contraloría General de Cuentas), which was enacted on July, 18 2002, just 2 months before the
IFM-II project formally closed. Additional supporting legislation includes the proposed Integrity and
Responsibility Law, which was submitted to Congress during 2002. The modified legal and regulatory
framework has defined the organizational structure and functional duties of the CGC, outlined the
conceptual framework for the SAG and concomitant auditing controls, and delineated the reporting
relationship between the CGC and the line agencies. The development of the underlying legal and
institutional framework was based, in large part, on an diagnostic that was prepared by the PCU and later
modified by CGC. CGC is currently in the process of reviewing and updating its internal norms and
procedures so that internal and external auditing procedures are consistent with the new legal framework
and strengthen its operations.

To this end, the CGC has recently embarked on carrying out the institutional and operational reforms to
adequately fulfill its legal mandate. An initial change has involved the reorganization of the managerial


                                                    - 9 -

structure with the establishment of position of Sub-controllers for Institutional Integrity and Quality of
Public Expenditures as well as the creation Directorates of Probity, Ethics and Morals, Human Resources,
Finance, Administration, Quality of Public Expenditures, Government Auditing, Public Infrastructure, and
Technical Assistance. Additional directorates for Internal Audit, General Inspection, and Strategic Planning
are expected to be created in the near-term. The Government Audit directorate will be divided by region in
order to support the decentralization of auditing activities. In addition, guidelines for internal controls have
been developed and training was provided to 420 auditors regarding the use, evaluation and reporting of
these norms.

There has also been a great deal of recent activity regarding the development of a core staff of well-trained
professional auditors, including the redefinition of staff duties and personnel reductions. CGC management
began evaluating its current personnel as part of the general diagnostic in late 2002. Out of a total staff of
960, there are roughly 530 auditors with the remaining staff in administrative roles. This 55:45 ratio is well
below international best practice of roughly 80:20 professional to administrative staff. Moreover, a number
of auditors lack formal training. Auditors are in the process of receiving training with the goal of obtaining
professional licenses. The training program is being carried out in conjunction with local universities.
Successful completion of the training program has become a formal requirement for being retained by the
CGC. As a result, the contracts of about 300 auditors and administrative staff are expected to be
terminated in the coming months and will receive an appropriate compensation package. A significant
percentage of individuals will also leave through early retirement. Retained auditors are expected to receive
higher salaries in an effort to limit staff turnover. These actions are expected to improve the level of
professionalism among CGC staff in the medium-term. During the project, technical assistance was
provided to improve the existing human resources system, which financed the development and installation
a human resources database and staff training. The outsourcing of auditing was largely precluded due to
delays in the passage of the Comptroller General Law.

During implementation, UDAIs were created in 15 line ministries and public sector entities, which is
roughly 75 percent of the appraisal target. The UDAIs obtained and installed the necessary information
systems, hardware, software, as well as elaborated operational guidelines to oversee and manage internal
activities. The IFM-II project also supported extending the Government Audit System (SAG) to line
agencies and decentralized entities. However, not all the UDAI are adequately connected with the SIAF
system, which has limited the widespread use and effectiveness of the SAG as an information system. In
practice, the existing SAG remains very independent from SIAF, as is limited to assigning auditors to
reviews. Further development of the SAG is expected to involve preparing auditing plans as well as
creating links to facilitate the use of auditing information in the preparation of budgets and strategic
reviews. Implementation delays are related to difficulties in achieving technological integration and
inadequate budgetary resources to complete the integration.

The project also supported the development and dissemination of guidelines for strengthening internal
controls within public sector institutions. To improve resource utilization, the project also supported the
development of a system for planning and implementing auditing reviews. Technical assistance and training
was also provided with approximately 450 internal auditors receiving training on the use of the SAG
system. From 1998 to 2001, the number of licensed auditors within CGC grew from 40 to 117. Additional
training courses were provided to about 16,000 public sector staff on general management, budget
preparation, anti-corruption, and internal control were also provided. Staff turnover, nevertheless, limited
some of the benefits from this training.

The development of audit controls was commenced during implementation and remain ongoing at project
end. CURs have improved accountability, since each step in the payment authorization process is recorded


                                                     - 10 -

and submitted to the CGC for auditing review. To further improve the carrying out of auditing activities
using modern systems, CGC must resolve the following issues: (i) information gaps; (ii) the need to
improve the level of integration the SAG system with the SICOIN and other financial management systems;
(iii) the limited number of internet connections; (iv) completing the elaboration of auditing responsibilities
among the relevant institutions; and (v) completing the move to more modern facilities. The recently
enacted legal and regulatory framework has attempted to strengthen enforcement by developing a system of
sanctions to stem the inefficient or improper use of government funds. Nevertheless, additional review is
needed to ensure that the applications of enforcement policies and the imposition of sanctions emphasize
corrective measures and create the proper incentive structure that supports greater transparency. Along
these lines, a great deal of diligence is also needed to ensure that enforcement is not carried out in an
arbitrary manner, which would greatly reduce the credibility of the SAG system.

3.       Strengthening the public investment function. Significant progress was achieved in the
implementation of this component. In particular, the project supported the reorganization of the public
investment function within the Technical Directorate for the Budget (DTP) within MPF and strengthened
the Secretariat of Planning and Programming (SEGEPLAN) as well as financed staff training, the
installation of modern information systems, and the development of operational guidelines and procedures.
The project also supported the design and implementation of the National Public Investment Information
System (SNIP), which is managed by SEGEPLAN. Although the SNIP became operational in 2001 it has
not yet been fully integrated with the SICOIN system. Through the SNIP, the following has been achieved:
(i) the development of a conceptual and operational framework based on international best practices; (ii)
the elaboration of a methodology for project evaluation used by public sector entities and municipal
governments; (iii) the implementation of a database that tracks and records potential projects and the
financial and physical status of investments at each stage of the project life cycle; and (iv) preparation of
ex-post evaluations. However additional benefits from the SNIP could be derived by establishing policies
and criteria for the allocation of funds for new investments in addition to tracking ex-ante expenditures.

The SNIP replaced the General Information System (SIG), the previous legacy system, which lacked the
ability to track and monitor projects prior to inclusion in the national budget. Within the SNIP, there is a
readily accessible database that stores documents pertinent for undertaking and substantiating public sector
investments, including economic feasibility studies, engineering designs and project budgets. The line
agencies also have relatively easy access to this Internet-based system, which has eased the transfer of data
and supporting documents and has facilitated the tracking of projects pending approval. By project end,
roughly 5,400 public investment projects have been registered within the SNIP, comprising about 88
percent of all investment projects carried out by the public sector. However, work still needs to be done to
incorporate the projects managed by the Social Investment Fund (FIS), the Land Fund FONTIERRAS, and
National Fund for Peace (FONAPAZ) into the SNIP system, as specified at appraisal. The revised
schedule for completing this process is currently the end of 2003.

In this manner, the SNIP has allowed MPF and SEGEPLAN to maintain an up-to-date inventory of
investment projects during all phases of implementation to aid in monitoring and supervision. Moreover,
the SNIP has improved project quality. New investments are more consistently evaluated based on common
financial and economic criteria. This has improved quality-at-entry, since less viable projects are rejected,
and has reduced the prevalence of major cost overruns. The SNIP has also improved the ability of the GoG
to prioritize future projects, thereby supporting better utilization of scarce financial resources. Because the
SNIP has improved the ability to estimate recurrent costs, the GoG can also better determine future
financing needs. Work is underway to improve the monitoring and compliance with project milestones and
legal covenants, which would allow for better identification of implementation difficulties and potential
corrective measures. Additional deficiencies that have been detected in the SNIP include: (i) excessive


                                                     - 11 -

evaluation criteria; (ii) difficulties in disaggregating functional and investment costs by project; and (iii)
improving linkages and system checks with the budgetary ceilings of line agencies.

From a user perspective, the SNIP is still developing wider acceptance. Roughly 28 public sector
institutions, including nearly all of the major ministries, a few autonomous entities, and the municipalities
use the SNIP system as of early 2003. As it gains wider acceptance, the SNIP is expected to become an
increasingly important decision-making tool for evaluating new and ongoing investments financed by the
public sector. To support wider usage, the project supported building human resources capacity within
institutions with public investment functions, the development and dissemination of operational manuals,
and educational efforts to promote the new system. Training courses on project evaluation were provided to
roughly 600 representatives from public sector institutions and municipalities, exceeding the appraisal
target of 400. Legislation enacted during 2002 has also mandated greater usage of the SNIP. Although a
Public Investment Law was not approved as had been envisioned, key elements have been included under
the Organic Budget Law, which is currently under review within Congress. This includes proposals for
redefining institutional roles regarding public investment and increasing coordination among public sector
institutions.

SEGEPLAN and MPF are working toward linking the SNIP to the development of the multi-year
investment programs. However, the design and preparation of multi-year budget programs has been
postponed until FY04. In the interim, a 3­year Public Investment Program was prepared for 2002-04 and
has been updated for 2003-05. This serves as a reference rather than a binding plan.

4.       Strengthening Public Debt Management.

Although significant progress has been made regarding the implementation of this component, a number of
activities, particularly regarding integration of information systems, remain ongoing. Public credit activities
were reorganized and the DCP replaced the Directorate for External Financing and Trusts in 2000.
Responsibility for negotiating, placing, and monitoring external debt was assigned to a newly formed
department within DCP; this transfer was completed in May 2001. During the project, DCP reinitiated an
open bidding process and established auctions for the issuance of government securities, while reducing the
number of issues conducted under direct negotiations. Not only did the change in issuance mechanisms
increase transparency, but also had the effect of increasing investor confidence, leading to lower interest
rates and longer maturities.

To support the management of public debt, the project financed the following institutional strengthening
activities for the DCP: (i) the elaboration of operational manuals; (ii) the review of operational procedures
for taking on new debt; (iii) review of job descriptions within DCP; (iv) the development of a framework
for controls relating to domestic and external public debt; and (v) technology integration and upgrades.
These efforts have supported increased efficiency, greater transparency, and expanded access to
debt-related information. The project also financed a training program in debt management and workshops
on public debt managed attended by DCP representatives. Additional activities carried out under the project
include the preparation of a conceptual model for tracking and managing public debt, registry for grant
funds, and a diagnostic of public debt held by the 4 pilot municipalities.

The project also supported the implementation of the Debt Management System (SIGADE), which was
designed to improve the public debt registry for documents relating to external debt and the internal debt
managed by the Public Credit Directorate (DCP). Support for the implementation of the SIGADE was
achieved by the financing of hardware and software systems, staff training, and hiring of consultants to
facilitate the integration process. The SIGADE system has been in place since late 1999, replacing a


                                                      - 12 -

spreadsheet-based approach that was highly error-prone and unreliable. As a result, the SIGADE has
improved the tracking of debt amortization and interest payments, loan extension dates, loan covenants, and
disbursements from multilateral agencies. Better tracking of debt obligations has allowed the GoG to
improve its management of outstanding debt, interest payments, and debt service fees. The SIGADE also
permits the analysis of public debt in relation to critical macroeconomic indicators.

However, additional work is needed to link the SIGADE with the disbursements provided by multilateral or
bilateral assistance. Through support from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), the Government is in the process of upgrading the SIGADE to carry out sensitivity analyses
to better evaluate financial risks related to outstanding debt. However, additional training will be needed, so
that DCP staff can properly use the upgraded SIGADE system. The integration of the SIGADE and the
SICOIN systems was only partially completed and the Directorate is completing its training regarding the
full use of the system at project end. Work is being done to link the SIGADE with the issuance of CURs
for disbursements and debt payments. The expectation is that these systems will be fully integrated by
mid-2003. Very little progress has been achieved regarding the integration of the SIGADE with SNIP and
SIGEPRO systems, which would directly link the oversight of public debt with the tracking of public
investment activities and debt financed by multilateral institutions, respectively.

Through the acquisition of hardware and software, the project also supported the development of the
SIGEPRO system, which is designed to improve the monitoring and supervision of projects financed by
multilateral agencies. Although the SIGEPRO currently only tracks 5 World Bank operations, it is in the
process of being expanded to include initiatives financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
as well as other multilateral and bilateral entities. Additional resources will also be provided to improve the
quality of reports generated by the SIGEPRO as well as consistency with the Bank's guidelines.

The project made limited progress toward reducing the amount of the debt held and fees (about 0.25
percent of the monthly balance) imposed by the Bank of Guatemala. A proposal to transfer the management
of public debt issued by open auction to MPF and keep the management of debt provided through the credit
window under the Bank of Guatemala was submitted, but was later discarded. In addition, the integration
of the SIGADE system with the financial management system in the Bank of Guatemala has also
encountered delays. For the time being, DCP has installed a mirror so that it can access the database
maintained by the Bank of Guatemala to update transactions impacting on public debt. Integration of these
systems is expected to be completed by mid-2003.

The next steps in the process involves improving the tracking of debt obligations undertaken by municipal
entities, which accounts for a limited, but growing percentage of total public sector debt in Guatemala. At
present, there is limited information as to the actual level of indebtedness of municipal governments as well
as few or no internal controls exist for tracking and authorizing debt payments from local governments. To
address this issue, the IFM-III will attempt to upgrade the financial management and improve the
management of debt obligations undertaken by municipal authorities,

5.    Project Coordination.

The IFM-II project provided technical assistance to strengthen the functioning of the PCU. As in the IFM-I
project, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) continued to the procurement agent for the
project. Additional activities supported by this component include: (i) elaboration of a project operational
manual; (ii) technical assistance to support the integration of the various financial management systems
supported by the SIAF-SAG program; and (iii) training activities for MPF and UDAF staff.




                                                      - 13 -

In addition, the project supported the migration of financial management systems to a three-tier
client/server architecture, which was halted in 2000, but resumed in late 2002. The three-tier architecture
would be divided into user interface (e.g. the browser), central servers, and a middle tier or servers where
the business logic and rules are implemented and executed. The implementation of this architecture would
improve performance, flexibility and maintenance, as the business logic is placed independently and in one
place, limiting the number of changes needed to update the system. The GoG is in the process of tendering
out the purchase of servers and software needed to complete this migration. The project also supported the
purchase of computers to support the eventual incorporation of municipal governments within the SICOIN
system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact: The institutional development impact of the project has been substantial,
as the project has exceeded project performance indicators established at appraisal. The SIAF-SAG
program supported the passage of the underlying legal and regulatory framework for improving financial
management activities, the re-engineering of MPF, the creation of UDAFs and UDAIs within the line
agencies and autonomous institutions, and the implementation of financial managements systems for
accounting, budget, treasury, public debt, and public investment. The IFM-II project also improved the
GoG's ability to make more effective use of human and financial resources. Due to the nature of the
activities undertaken, it is unlikely these reforms will be reversed. Finally, the SIAF-SAG has had a
significant impact in changing the attitude within the public sector as sizeable elements of the bureaucracy,
especially in MPF and a number of line agencies, have adapted to the use of the SICION system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Technological change. Implementation of the SICOIN and associated financial management systems
commenced just as Internet-based technologies were becoming more widespread. Although relatively
cutting-edge at the time of implementation, this system is not taking fully advantage of the new
technological context given the extremely short-life cycle for computer hardware systems and software
programs. To address this issue, the GoG is moving toward architecture.

Computer security. The issue of ensuring the security of computer systems was relatively new at the time
of the appraisal. During implementation, line ministries were hit by computer viruses that in isolated cases
effectively wiped out a significant portion of recorded financial data. This issue has been addressed with the
purchase of easily installed virus protection software. Nevertheless, additional attention should be given to
improving computer security, especially in relation to unauthorized access to data. It is also necessary to
ensure that the proper back-up systems are in place in case of failure of the first server.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment. The level of government commitment was the key driver during project
implementation and supported the realization of notable achievements regarding the reengineering of MPF,
the deconcentration of financial management activities within the UDAFs, and the strengthening of
accounting, budget, and treasury functions throughout the entire system. These politically difficult activities
could not have been achieved without commitment from the central government. At the same time, limited



                                                     - 14 -

government commitment and financial resources for other elements of the reform precluded the achievement
of critical project activities outlined during appraisal. This included delays in enacting legal and regulatory
framework and the restructuring of the CGC.

Staff turnover at the line ministries. Staff turnover due to poor compensation, especially for managerial
and technical staff, is relatively widespread throughout public sector institutions in Guatemala. This risk
was anticipated at appraisal. During project implementation, there was significant staff turnover within the
MPF and in the line agencies, which led to implementation delays.

Staff continuity within the PCU. For the most part, a similar management and technical team that
implemented IFM-I were also involved in the implementation of the IFM-II. This helped to provide
continuity and facilitated the broader extension of the SIAF-SAG program to the rest of the public sector
that were not covered under the first project. Staff continuity also reduced the learning curve during
implementation. Notwithstanding, the end of the IFM-II was characterized by significant staff turnover,
termination of the contracts of international consultants, and the naming of a new management team, which
should lengthen the adaptation process during the initial implementation of the IFM-III project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in system integration. A key element of the SIAF-SAG program was the development and
integration of all the financial management systems (SICOIN, SIGADE, SNIP, SIGEPRO, and SIAD) to
ensure the rapid and fluid transfer of financial information within MPF and between the line agencies.
Delays in the purchase of the necessary equipment, the limited number of well-trained technical staff,
insufficient budgets to complete the integration process, and unanticipated technical difficulties have
slowed this process. There were also some errors in defining the strategy. In regard to the issue of personnel
constraints, the GoG has indicated that it will expand the total number of technical staff in the PCU to
roughly 30 individuals.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Bank provided $15.7 million, which was completely disbursed by the end of the project. In addition,
the GoG provided roughly US$1.8 million in counterpart funds. The breakdown of project costs is listed as
follows: (i) about US$4.7 million (US$5.4 planned after the reallocation between loan categories) was
spent on goods, e.g. computer and telecommunications equipment, including servers, fiber optic cables,
personal computers, and printers that formed part of the financial management systems supported by the
IFM-II; (ii) roughly US$9.6 million (US$6.3 million planned) was spent on consulting services; (iii)
roughly US$0.2 million was used for training (compared to $1.6 million); (iv) nearly US$1.8 million
(US$0.9 million planned) was spent on operational expenses, including the activities of the PCU; and (v)
roughly US$1.6 million was spent on the contract with the UNDP (US$1.6 million planned) to oversee
project procurement activities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered to be high, notwithstanding certain institutional, financial, and technical risks.
With the support from the project, the GoG has developed and implemented financial management, budget,
and accounting systems that are more accurate, reliable, and transparent than the previous systems. The
Government has also developed internal controls for these activities and has installed the SICOIN, a
financial management information system that provides rapid electronic links within the MPF and between
MPF and the respective line agencies. From an operational perspective, these activities have been running
fairly smoothly during the past few years and adequate reporting relationships have been established



                                                      - 15 -

between the responsible agencies. More importantly, sustainability for the SIAF-SAG program has been
bolstered by the following changes in the institutional structure: (i) the reengineering ofthe MPF; and (ii)
the creation of UDAFs in the line agencies. These institutional changes have created a dramatic shift in the
operational culture for financial management activities within the Government, which makes it extremely
unlikely that these gains would be reversed. It is also significant that much of the underlying legal and
regulatory structure underlying these aforementioned operational and institutional changes has been
codified into law. Additional legislation that would support the SIAF-SAG is under review within the
Congress.

Nevertheless, sustainability will also depend on the availability of budget resources to finance periodic
system upgrades as well as attracting and retaining qualified management and technical staff. It is also
extremely important that the PCU is fully institutionalized within the MFP to ensure continuity of
operations. The active role of the Department of IT is also important. Along these lines, the decision not to
retain key management and technical specialists that had worked on the IFM-II project may create a more
prolonged transition period for the implementation of the follow-on project. Additional factors that may
impact sustainability include: (i) staff turnover of around 50 percent, especially in the UDAFs and the
UDAIs; (ii) the ability to migrate existing systems to an Internet based platform; and (iii) continued
government commitment to the SIAF-SAG program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations, which began under the IFM-I, has largely been achieved under the
IFM-II project. Accounting, budget, and treasury systems are firmly in place have been demonstrated to be
extremely effective and reliable. These reforms are expected to expanded to local governments under the
IFM-III, which was approved on March 14, 2002, but has not yet become effective, as of early 2003.
However, most of the management and technical staff within the PCU have not been retained to oversee
and manage the implementation of the IFM-III. Specific activities covered under the IFM-III project
include: (i) the consolidation of the SIAF to develop a medium term expenditure framework; (ii) the
strengthening of municipal government financial management under the SIAF framework; (iii) limited
strengthening of human resources management; (iv) support for the CGC; (v) support for the Government's
e-government agenda in strategy formulation, guidance for the entire public sector, and implementation of
the strategy in aspects related to public finance; and (vi) additional support for the PCU to continue its
activities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during lending is rated as satisfactory, overall. The PAD responded closely to
the needs identified by the Borrower, and was largely a continuation of the activities commenced,
but not concluded under the IFM-I project. The early phasing of the IFM-II helped to maintain
continuity of the SIAF-SAG program. Moreover, it was the opinion of a number of
representatives within the GoG that the loans comprising part of the SIAF-SAG program were
the proper exogenous instruments for creating the impetus for change.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. Throughout the entire process, the Bank has
been instructive in defining the necessary operational, legal and regulatory, and technological prerequisites
to ensure that the system becomes fully functional through the public sector. These efforts supported the
timely implementation of most of the project components as well as ensured a high level of the quality in



                                                   - 16 -

the reforms that were undertaken.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during project preparation is rated as satisfactory. Using the results achieved under
the IFM-I, the Borrower took a proactive and comprehensive approach in preparing the IFM-II project.
This assessment was based on international best practices and properly modified for local conditions. If
anything, the Borrower may have underestimated its own absorptive capacities in that some activities being
financed the IFM-III project could have been financed under the second phase of the program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation of the Borrower is satisfactory, overall. The Government made significant progress
regarding the implementation of the SICOIN system, the establishment of the UDAFs, and the installation
of the SNIP and SIGADE systems. These actions were strongly supported by the restructuring and
reengineering of the MPF. Although essential, the reorganization required the undertaking of important, but
politically difficult decisions. These achievements have been recognized by the Bank during implementation
of the SIAG-SAG program with representatives from MPF receiving awards for their participation.
Another factor supporting the rating was the high level of coordination across government agencies,
including MPF, SEGEPLAN, and the Bank of Guatemala. Nevertheless, commitment to the SIAF-SAG
program has ebbed and flowed during implementation with some project activities receiving relatively weak
support, especially the restructuring of the CGC and the implementation of the SAG system.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory. The PCU supported the design,
implementation, and installation of the financial management systems developed under the project as well
as assisted the GoG in determining the legal and institutional reforms needed to align financial management
operations with the updated systems. Annual financial statements and supervision reports were prepared on
schedule and were of reasonable quality. However, an accounting manual was not prepared during project
implementation. Delays in integrating financial systems has created information bottlenecks and has limited
the realization of some of the expected efficiency gains under the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, overall.

8. Lessons Learned

Achieving project objectives was directly related to the level of government commitment.

The overall success of the SIAF-SAG program, including the implementation of the IFM-I and IFM-II
projects, has involved much more than installing and upgrading information systems. If anything,
technological upgrades typically end up being unsustainable, if the organizational structure, job
descriptions, and staffing needs are not aligned with information outputs and decision-making procedures.
Instead, the SIAF-SAG has supported the reengineering of the institutions that use and manage financial
information systems to increase efficiency and transparency in the provision of critical financial
management activities, including accounting, budget, treasury, and procurement.

This process often necessitated making politically difficult decisions, especially in regard to the enactment



                                                    - 17 -

of the underlying legal and regulatory framework as well as staff reductions. These actions could not have
been achieved without the strong backing of the central government. As a result, an organizational structure
within the MPF and the deconcentrated units in the line agencies is now in place to better track and process
financial information generated by the SICOIN and related financial systems. Future technological
upgrades, such as the migration to client/server technologies and the development of the 3 stage model
(which separates financial information according to data, rules and business logic), can be made to conform
to this institutional structure without the need for additional upheavals.

In contrast, the absence of strong government commitment led to delays regarding the restructuring of the
CGC as well as in the installation and integration of the SAG system. As with the implementation of the
financial management systems, the auditing components also required the development and passage of an
updated legal and regulatory framework, institutional reorganization, and staff reductions.

Using widely-available and appropriate technologies.

The project used widely available technologies that were then adapted for registering, maintaining, and
managing financial information within the Guatemalan public sector. A number of hardware and software
systems that had been purchased were "off-the-shelf," which helped to keep costs down. However, the
customization process could have utilized more cost effective technologies. To this end, the follow-on
project is supporting the wider use and installation of Internet based technologies or three-tier architectures,
which were developed during the current operation. The cost advantage from this technology stems from
the fact that the whole business logic is placed independently and in only one place. Therefore, any changes
are made only once. In contrast to traditional client/server or two-tier architectures, these changes have to
be made in different places carrying with them higher costs and/or implementation time.

In addition, an emphasis was made to implement technological systems that were sufficiently user-friendly
to ensure widespread use. Training also was provided to increase the level of capacity of the system
administrators and users in the MPF and the line agencies. The use of widely available technologies has
enabled the replication of the activities supported by this operation in other countries. In particular, this
approach has been copied, adapted, and modified in Bolivia, Chile, and Nicaragua.

Developing capacity among all participating entities to achieve results throughout the entire system.

The development and implementation of financial management systems is extremely susceptible to the level
of administrative, institutional, and technical capacity exhibited within the public sector institutions along
the information supply chain. In particular, the imposition of late or erroneous data by line agencies
incorporated into the SIAF-SAG program but with relatively weaker capacity or by entities lacking updated
financial management has, on occasion, thrown off the entire budget and reconciliation process. These
exercises should highlight which UDAFs need additional institutional strengthening, so that future errors
can be avoided. Along these lines, a system that ranks the relative performance of the UDAFs might be
useful to determine where technical assistance activities can best be targeted.

Institutional flexibility is needed to continuously update technology.

One of the issues that can sometimes leads to implementation delays is institutional adherence to outmoded,
legacy systems. To a large extent, the restructuring of the MPF and the creation of UDAFs minimized this
difficulty, as the new restructured directorates and new department had to start from scratch, which made
them relatively more amenable to taking on new systems. Despite these efforts, there were difficulties in



                                                      - 18 -

integrating the    financial management systems supported SIAF-SAG program with legacy systems
(SIGADE-Bank of Guatemala) and with each other (SICOIN-SNIP, SICOIN-SIGEPRO). Moreover,
technology that was considered the most up-to-date during appraisal rapidly became obsolete during
implementation, resulting in the reduced availability of ancillary hardware and software as well as technical
expertise. To address this difficulty, the decision was made to migrate the SICOIN and other financial
management systems to Internet-based platform, which would allow users in line agencies to more quickly
view, update, and transfer data and could reduce maintenance costs Finally, the GoG should develop better
back-up systems, so that public sector entities can continue to function in the event of system failures,
power failures, or national emergencies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                   INFORME PROYECTO SIAF-SAG II

EVALUACION DEL OBJETIVO DE DESARROLLO DEL PROYECTO Y DE LA CALIDAD
AL INICIO

Objetivos Iniciales:

El proyecto es una extensión de la Modernización del Estado, la cual continua con la ampliación de las
reformas iniciadas bajo el proyecto de Administración Financiera (SIAF-I, Préstamo GU-3895) con el
objeto de: (i) mejorar la eficiencia de la administración financiera y el control; (ii) mejorar la ejecución de la
inversión pública; y (iii) establecimiento y/o fortalecimiento de mecanismos para reducir la corrupción.

Objetivos Revisados:

Se mantuvieron los objetivos que se habían definido en el documento original del préstamo.

Componentes Originales:

1. Extensión de Reformas de la Administración Financiera Integrada: Este componente apoyaría la
profundización de las reformas en varios subsistemas de administración financiera (presupuesto,
contabilidad, tesorería, adquisiciones) iniciadas dentro del actual proyecto. También financiaría la extensión
del sistema total reformado al resto del sector no financiero del sector público (26 entidades además de las 6
agencias que se benefician del SIAF-I) a través de un marco regulador uniforme y de tecnología de
información de base gráfica. Se espera que la implementación del programa, incluyendo la capacitación en
el Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo Municipal, estimule la subsecuente extensión de las reformas a los
gobiernos municipales.

2. Fortalecimiento de la Contraloría General de Cuentas (CGC): Este componente ayudaría a
fortalecer la función de la auditoria externa a través del fortalecimiento institucional de la CGC. Las
iniciativas principales incluirían el diagnóstico de la estructura organizacional y funciones de la CGC, su
reestructuración, la creación de un nuevo sistema de administración de recursos humanos, la capacitación
de personal, el desarrollo de un sistema informático actualizado de auditoría y asistencia para el desarrollo
de funciones sustantivas de auditoría externa. El Gobierno cree que estas acciones son especialmente
necesarias en vista del papel cada vez más importante que juega la CGC en el monitoreo de la
implementación y la garantía de la transparencia de los aspectos clave de los recientemente firmados
Acuerdos de Paz en Guatemala.



                                                      - 19 -

3. Fortalecimiento de la Función de Inversión Pública: Este componente apoyaría la reforma de la
función de la inversión pública y su integración al sistema más amplio de administración financiera.
Enfocaría el fortalecimiento de la capacidad nacional de identificación, formulación, evaluación, ejecución,
implementación y posterior evaluación de los proyectos, desarrollo de programas de inversión pública y la
adecuada coordinación interinstitucional y políticas de seguimiento de la inversión pública.



4.   Modernización de la Administración de la Deuda Pública: Este componente apoyaría el
fortalecimiento de la capacidad del Gobierno de contraer y administrar la deuda interna y externa de una
manera más coordinada, transparente y con mayor eficiencia en los costos, integrado al sistema de
administración financiera del sector público.

5. Coordinación del Proyecto: La coordinación del proyecto estará bajo la responsabilidad de la Unidad
de Coordinación de proyectos (UCP) que está implementando actualmente el SIAF-I. Será responsable de
la supervisión del desarrollo del Proyecto, del monitoreo de la implementación de contratos, del seguimiento
de los desembolsos, de la preparación de informes semestrales y de la provisión de asistencia para las
misiones de supervisión del Banco.



Componentes Revisados:

Se mantuvieron los componentes como originalmente se habían definido en el documento de préstamo.

Calidad al Inicio:

La ejecución del Préstamo GU-4269 se anticipó a lo programado y es altamente satisfactoria; como
producto del éxito obtenido en la primera fase de desarrollo del SIAF en donde se obtuvieron resultados
muy positivos antes de lo previsto, hizo que este proyecto SIAF-II fuese más confiable para la
administración de Gobierno y a su vez se obtuviera un mayor rendimiento y alta calidad al inicio de la
gestión del mismo proyecto, ya que simplemente se daba continuidad al éxito de la fase anterior SIAF-I.

LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y METAS

Resultado y logro de los objetivos:

· Implantación del Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera (SIAF)

  El SIAF está implantado en toda la administración central desde 1998, y operando en tiempo real en los
  entes rectores y otras direcciones del Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas (Dirección Técnica de Presupuesto,
  Dirección de Contabilidad del Estado, Tesorería Nacional, Dirección de Crédito Público, Dirección de
  Informática) y en 43 ministerios y secretarías, los cuales formulan y registran la ejecución del
  Presupuesto General de Ingresos y Egresos del Estado, utilizando la herramienta informática.

  A través del SIAF, el presupuesto se formula por resultados, fijando metas físicas y financieras, en forma
  desconcentrada por cada uno de los ministerios y secretarías. Los proyectos de presupuesto
  institucionales se consolidan y con ellos se formula el Presupuesto General de Ingresos y Egresos del
  Estado, que presenta el Ministro de Finanzas Públicas al Congreso de la República el 2 de septiembre de
  cada año en multimedia (CD) donde se incluye ejecución presupuestaria al 31 de agosto del mismo año.


                                                    - 20 -

El presupuesto es dinámico, programándose su ejecución trimestralmente, y en función del balance entre
el ritmo de la captación de recursos y la ejecución del gasto se fijan cuotas trimestrales para la ejecución
y mensuales para el pago. Dentro de esas cuotas, cada Ministro decide sus pagos y éstos se realizan a
través del sistema bancario por órdenes de acreditamiento en cuenta por parte de la Tesorería Nacional,
dentro de las 48 horas de recibida la información electrónica de la ejecución presupuestaria.

La fijación de cuotas y las autorizaciones de modificaciones presupuestarias es realizada en forma
electrónica desde la Dirección Técnica de Presupuesto y se refleja en tiempo real en cada uno de los
presupuestos institucionales.

Cada ministerio y secretaría ejecuta su presupuesto en tiempo real y en forma desconcentrada, en donde
se han organizado Unidades de Administración Financiera (UDAF) como réplica del Ministerio de
Finanzas Públicas (presupuesto, contabilidad y tesorería), dotadas de herramientas informáticas y de
comunicaciones, organización y procedimientos, perfiles de puestos y se ha capacitado a su personal.

Actualmente la administración financiera se está desconcentrando desde las UDAF ministeriales hacia sus
unidades ejecutoras (Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, 25 unidades ejecutoras en
Quetzaltenango); este es el tercer nivel de la desconcentración del gasto público y es lo que se consolidará
en la fase III del SIAF.

La información de ejecución presupuestaria de cada Ministerio y Secretaría de Estado es trasmitida por
canales digitales de alta velocidad (fibra óptica, Intranet del Gobierno) hacia el Ministerio de Finanzas
Públicas, donde se valida en una mesa de entrada en la Dirección de Contabilidad del Estado, se genera
automáticamente la contabilidad consolidada de la ejecución presupuestaria y patrimonial y se dispone la
información para su pago por la Tesorería Nacional.

Los órganos rectores del Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas han sido objeto de un proceso de reingeniería
administrativa donde se han eliminado pasos, firmas y simplificado procedimientos, evolucionando hacia
una oficina sin papeles. De 130 pasos en tramitar un pago, se evolucionó a 12, en su mayoría
automáticos, los documentos de respaldo quedan en las unidades ejecutoras, eliminando ineficiencias,
disminuyendo los costos y la corrupción.

La Tesorería Nacional se está organizando como un Banco del Tesoro, su gestión se basa en la
programación diaria, semanal y mensual de los flujos de fondos. Se ha firmado convenio con la red
privada del sistema bancario (BANCARED) a través de la cual se comunican todos los Bancos y el
Banco de Guatemala. Se han abierto cuentas de la Tesorería Nacional en cada uno de los bancos públicos
y privados recaudadores y a través de su red se reciben diariamente, junto con la Superintendencia de
Administración Tributaria (SAT) los montos de las recaudaciones y dentro de los cinco días las
transferencias monetarias en el Banco de Guatemala. Por la misma vía, viajan las órdenes de la Tesorería
para el acreditamiento en cuenta de los pagos a los proveedores y servidores públicos. A partir del 1 de
junio de 2000, los proveedores de bienes y servicios al Gobierno pueden acceder a un sitio en Internet (
www.minfin.gob.gt), para consultar el estado de sus facturas y la tramitación de los pagos realizados a su
favor.

Desde el 1 de junio de 2000 no se emiten cheques para pago de proveedores. Una vez que se concluya la
incorporación de los maestros al sistema, ya no habrán más pagos con cheques, con un ahorro anual de
US $ 2,500,000.00 (dos millones quinientos mil dólares). Estos esquemas de operatividad están siendo
aplicados por las entidades descentralizadas que han adoptado el SIAF, con lo cual se hace una replica a


                                                   - 21 -

 todo el sector público no financiero de las mejores prácticas de la gestión pública.

 Los Bancos remiten en forma electrónica información diaria de los movimientos de las cuentas
 monetarias de la Tesorería y el sistema las concilia automáticamente, con lo cual el Tesorero conoce
 todos los días a las 8 de la mañana los saldos con que cuenta para sus operaciones diarias.

 En la Tesorería Nacional se está consolidado el sistema de la Cuenta Única del Tesoro, para lo cual se
 han eliminado aproximadamente 1.200 cuentas corrientes pertenecientes a entidades del Gobierno
 Central, que representaban aproximadamente unos 600 millones de quetzales como saldos diarios en los
 bancos del sistema, la mayoría de estos saldos estaban ociosos; se ha modificado la Ley y estos recursos
 se fueron incorporando a la Cuenta Única del Tesoro.

· Saneamiento de las finanzas públicas

 Se ha continuado con la política de saneamiento de las finanzas públicas, depurándose y reduciéndose la
 deuda flotante del Gobierno frente a proveedores, lo que provocaba que los primeros cuatro meses de una
 gestión los recursos se dedicaran a atender los compromisos adquiridos de ejercicios anteriores. Con la
 reforma, desde el mes de enero se empieza a ejecutar el presupuesto de la propia gestión; el no tener
 deuda flotante y el pago oportuno a los proveedores ha hecho que los precios de los bienes y servicios que
 le prestan al Estado mejoren en cuanto al precio por el costo de oportunidad que tienen hoy en día los
 proveedores.

· Transparencia en el uso de los recursos

 El SIAF tiene más de 1000 usuarios en la administración pública, entre los cuales, además de los
 usuarios que operan el sistema, se encuentran el Vicepresidente de la República, el Gerente de la
 Presidencia, la Comisión de Finanzas del Congreso de la República, la Contraloría General de Cuentas y
 los Ministros, cada uno con su propia información institucional.

 Adicionalmente, se ha habilitado una terminal en la Dirección de Contabilidad del Estado del Ministerio
 de Finanzas Públicas, donde los gremios, instituciones de investigación, medios de comunicación social, y
 en general toda la comunidad que quiera consultar información del presupuesto, pueden obtener
 información de ejecución presupuestaria en tiempo real, a fin de hacer realidad uno de los objetivos de la
 reforma, como es la vigilancia del uso de los recursos públicos. Por otra parte, se actualiza diariamente
 un sitio en Internet (www.minfin.gob.gt) desde mediados de 2001, donde se tiene información de la
 ejecución del presupuesto vigente.

 Con la autorización del Presidente del Congreso, se han instalado 30 terminales del SIAF en el
 Organismo Legislativo, con acceso a sus módulos de consulta del registro de la ejecución presupuestaria
 de ingresos y gastos por parte de todas las bancadas, comisiones de trabajo, personal administrativo de la
 directiva del Congreso y unidad de relaciones públicas, está última para consulta de periodistas que
 cubren la fuente parlamentaria.

· Descentralización del SIAF

 El SIAF está operando en el Organismo Judicial, la Superintendencia de Administración Tributaria
 (SAT), el Instituto Técnico de Capacitación y Productividad (INTECAP), la Empresa Portuaria Quetzal
 (EPQ), Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INFOM), Instituto Guatemalteco de Seguridad Social (IGSS),



                                                   - 22 -

 Academia de Lenguas Mayas, Consejo para la Protección de Antigua Guatemala, Confederación
 Deportiva Autónoma de Guatemala, y el Fondo de Tierras). Asimismo como una experiencia piloto de
 apoyo municipal, a ser cumplida en la tercera etapa del SIAF (SIAF III) se han incorporado 4
 municipalidades, en las que se está haciendo el registro de la ejecución presupuestaria con la herramienta
 informática del SIAF (Antigua Guatemala, Amatitlán, Escuintla y Siquinalá).

· El fortalecimiento del sistema de crédito público.

 El sistema de crédito público, ha sido fortalecido mediante:

 a) Una propuesta y aplicación de la organización de una Dirección de Crédito Público.

 b) La implantación del Sistema de Gestión y Administración de la Deuda Pública (SIGADE) de la
 UNCTAD, que permite el registro de todas las operaciones de deuda externa, interna y donaciones.
 También está entrando en operaciones el sistema DEUDA-SIAF, un software que hace el nexo entre el
 SIGADE y el Sistema Integrado de Contabilidad (SICOIN), el Sistema de Gerencia de Proyectos
 (SIGEPRO) y el Sistema Nacional de Inversiones Públicas (SNIP). El sistema DEUDA-SIAF permite el
 registro en el SIAF de los desembolsos y órdenes de pago, desde el SIGADE.

 c) Elaboración de una propuesta de reforma integral del Título V de la Ley Orgánica del Presupuesto,
 correspondiente al Sistema de Crédito Público.

 d) Se incorporaron atribuciones específicas a la Dirección de Crédito Público en el nuevo Código
 Municipal, recientemente aprobado, que le permiten ejercer un control y registro de endeudamiento
 municipal.

 e) Implantación de un sistema transparente de subastas privadas y reinicio del mecanismo de licitaciones
 públicas para la colocación de la deuda bonificada.

· Sistema Integrado de Gerencia de Proyectos (SIGEPRO)

 El Proyecto ha desarrollado el Sistema Integrado de Gerencia de Proyectos (SIGEPRO) para su
 aplicación a la administración de proyectos internacionales. Este software permite que al tiempo que se
 registran las operaciones de los proyectos, se realicen los registros en la contabilidad gubernamental y se
 informe a los organismos internacionales prestatarios o donantes. Además, está integrado al SIGADE
 para las operaciones de desembolsos, al SNIP para el seguimiento de la inversión pública y al SIAD para
 una administración eficiente.

 El SIGEPRO, está operando en el Proyecto SIAF-SAG, en el Proyecto de Educación Básica del
 Ministerio de Educación, PROTIERRA, unidad ejecutora de proyecto del Ministerio de Agricultura, y en
 la SAT. El Banco Mundial ha validado el SIGEPRO para su aplicación en el ámbito de todos los
 proyectos de la institución a nivel del país, lo cual es un verdadero éxito por lo excepcional de dicha
 decisión, lo que demuestra la calidad de la herramienta desarrollada.

· Sistemas Integrados Administrativos (SIAD)

 Para fortalecer la administración de los ministerios y secretarías, se ha dotado a las UDAF de manuales
 de organización y funciones y se ha desarrollado un software, que integra los sistemas de adquisiciones,



                                                    - 23 -

 almacenes y bienes al SIAF. El SIAD ha sido probado en el Hospital Roosevelt y en el Proyecto
 SIAF-SAG; asimismo, el módulo de bienes, se está implantando en la Dirección de Contabilidad del
 Estado, para actualizar el inventario de los activos fijos del Gobierno.

 La Dirección de Adquisiciones del Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas está siendo apoyada por el Proyecto,
 para convertirla en el ente rector del sistema, así como para el desarrollo de un sistema de información de
 adquisiciones basado en Internet y del registro de proveedores del Estado. El inventario de bienes
 inmuebles y bienes culturales del Estado que ha elaborado la Dirección de Bienes del Estado a través del
 SIAD, le ha permitido llevar un registro en forma electrónica de la situación legal y física de los bienes
 inmuebles del Estado y los bienes culturales que forman parte del patrimonio público. Se elaboró el
 Marco Conceptual y Funcional del Plan de Compras, el manual de Procedimientos Administrativos
 Básicos de Adquisiciones y el Catálogo de Bienes.

· Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública (SNIP)

 El Proyecto SIAF-SAG está apoyando a la Secretaría General de Planificación y Programación de la
 Presidencia ­SEGEPLAN- y el Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas en la organización del Sistema Nacional
 de Inversión Pública, para lo cual se está trabajando en el diseño de manuales normalizados para el sector
 público de administración, seguimiento y evaluación de proyectos y la organización de un sistema de
 seguimiento de proyectos integrado al SIAF. Se cuenta con un sitio en Internet (www.segeplan.gob.gt) ,
 donde se puede consultar información sobre el sistema nacional de inversión pública.

· Contraloría General de Cuentas

 El proyecto ha estado fortaleciendo a la Contraloría General de Cuentas CGC, y en este sentido se han
 logrado avances como son el, diseño del sistema de Auditoría Gubernamental que ayuda a realizar la
 planificación estratégica de las actividades de la Contraloría General de Cuentas, abarcando todas las
 unidades administrativas, con lo cual se forma el Plan Operativo Anual (POA); desarrollo y divulgación
 de las Normas Generales de Control Interno simplificando los procesos, cuya aplicación fortalece el
 control interno institucional de los entes públicos; reorganización de la Jefatura de Auditoría
 Gubernamental; reingeniería de procesos para mejorar los servicios externos de la Contraloría General a
 la ciudadanía en referencia a: Declaración de Probidad, Finiquito de Cuentas, Cuentadancias, y otros;
 capacitación a 700 auditores internos y externos, aproximadamente, en el uso del SIAF como herramienta
 de análisis de datos, lo cual hace más profesional y oportuno el trabajo.

· Capacitación

 Para apoyar el proceso de modernización de la administración financiera el Proyecto SIAF-SAG ha
 debido realizar un gran esfuerzo de capacitación a través de seminarios, talleres, cursos y el
 adiestramiento en el trabajo. Para ello, cuenta con un laboratorio de capacitación con 20 computadoras
 donde se imparten cursos prácticos sobre los diversos sistemas. Han formado parte de los procesos de
 inducción y capacitación de alrededor de 16.000 servidores públicos.

 Asimismo, la capacitación se ha llevado a las universidades. Se ha establecido con el Instituto Nacional
 de Administración Pública (INAP) una actividad académica para dictar cursos de Sistemas Integrados de
 Administración Financiera, dirigido a los profesionales que cursan maestría en administración pública.

 Es importante mencionar que el Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera aplicado en el sector



                                                     - 24 -

  público de Guatemala, ha servido de base a otros países latinoamericanos para la modernización de la
  gestión pública. Dentro de los países que han venido a Guatemala a conocer de la experiencia de la
  reforma de la adiministración financiera tenemos a: Costa Rica, Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras,
  Panamá, República Dominicana, Chile y Santa Fe (Provincia de Argentina).

· Leyes

  A través del Proyecto SIAF-SAG, se ha contribuido a la formulación de proyectos de ley que servirán de
  base al proceso de modernización: la Ley Orgánica del Presupuesto, la Ley Orgánica de la Contraloría
  General de Cuentas, proyecto de Ley de Probidad y Responsabilidades, proyecto de Ley de
  Contrataciones del Estado y Código Municipal, entre otras.

El éxito que ha tenido el proceso de consolidación del Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera en
órganos rectores y otras direcciones de MINFIN, así como su generalización en las instituciones de la
administración central y seis instituciones descentralizadas, requiere continuar su desconcentración en
unidades ejecutoras de instituciones de la administración central, de su generalización a los fondos sociales,
al resto de las instituciones descentralizadas y de su implantación en las municipalidades, a fin de
consolidar la reforma de la administración financiera en esos niveles de gobierno y obtener información
para la elaboración de la cuenta económica agregada y consolidada del sector público, así como de los
estados financieros consolidados del sector público.

Resultados por componentes:

1)    Extensión de la reforma de la administración financiera, donde se contempla la consolidación de las
      reformas en los sistemas de presupuesto, contabilidad gubernamental, tesorería y desconcentración
      iniciadas en la etapa inicial del Proyecto, así como la provisión de hardware, equipos de
      comunicación e instalación del software en 43 instituciones de la administración central. Además, se
      ha implantado el sistema en 6 entidades descentralizadas y el Organismo Judicial, así como el
      fortalecimiento del Instituto Municipal de Fomento Municipal (INFOM) con las herramientas del
      SIAF, para la futura divulgación de las metodologías a las municipalidades.

2)    Fortalecimiento de la Contraloría General de Cuentas (CGC), se ha diseñado y desarrollado el
      sistema de Auditoría Gubernamental que ayuda a realizar la planificación estratégica de las
      actividades de la Contraloría General de Cuentas, se han desarrollado las Normas Generales de
      Control Interno, creación del Centro de Información Gubernamental (CIG), reingeniería de procesos
      para mejorar los servicios externos de la Contraloría General a la ciudadanía, y en general se ha dado
      un nuevo enfoque de trabajo a la CGC que permite evaluar las operaciones con base en pruebas
      selectivas, evaluación de procesos completos y evaluación de sistemas en sus propios ambientes
      tecnológicos, para fomentar la transparencia y credibilidad de la gestión pública.

3)    Fortalecimiento de la función de inversión pública, mediante su integración al sistema integrado de
      administración financiera. El Proyecto ha hecho especial énfasis en fortalecer las capacidades
      nacionales para la identificación, formulación, evaluación, ejecución, implementación y evaluación
      exante y expost, el desarrollo de programas de inversión pública y el establecimiento de apropiadas
      relaciones interinstitucionales de coordinación y de políticas de seguimiento de la inversión pública;
      se ha desarrollado e implementado el Sistema Nacional de Inversión Publica SNIP, el cual esta
      integrado con el SIAF.

4)    Modernización de la Administración de la Deuda Pública, a través del fortalecimiento de las


                                                    - 25 -

      capacidades del gobierno de contratar y administrar la deuda pública interna y externa, lográndose
      una mejor coordinación en la transparencia y reducción de costos e integración al sistema de
      administración financiera; asimismo se ha implementado el SIGADE como herramienta de apoyo
      para la administración de la deuda pública.

El impacto de las actividades de asistencia técnica son difíciles de cuantificar, sin embargo el proyecto ha
brindado innumerables economías en términos de ahorros fiscales tanto a mediano como a largo plazo. La
implementación del SIAF en la administración pública, ha brindado transparencia, ha mejorado la
asignación de recursos, seguimiento a la ejecución financiera y física. El Control Gubernamental, tanto
interno como externo se ha fortalecido al tener herramientas de apoyo para llevar a cabo la fiscalización del
gasto público. Existen indicadores que pudieran servir para medir la tasa de retorno económica de un
proyecto de esta magnitud y podríamos afirmar que dentro de este proceso de modernización hemos optado
por trasladar los recursos de las cuentas corrientes ociosas del Gobierno Central a la Cuenta Única del
Tesoro con lo cual estamos hablando de 600 millones de quetzales diarios que a una tasa promedio de 10%
anual, serían aproximadamente unos 60 millones de quetzales por intereses al año, si se multiplica por la
duración del proyecto cuatro años serían unos 240 millones de quetzales con lo cual un proyecto de estas
dimensiones estaría sufragado de una manera figurada.

Asimismo hemos hablado de las economías a escala que se hacen en la adquisición de bienes y servicios al
hacer más transparente el gasto público y pagar oportunamente (48 horas) a los proveedores del Estado, no
existiendo por consiguiente deuda flotante lo cual da mayor seguridad a los proveedores del Estado y hace
que los precios de los bienes y servicios sean acordes al mercado.

Otro de los aspectos relevantes es el que hace referencia a la economía por la no impresión de cheques
fiscales por parte del Gobierno, lo cual significa un ahorro aproximadamente de 2.5 millones de dólares al
año, que multiplicado por cuatro años que dure el proyecto serían alrededor de 10 millones de dólares; lo
cual es otro factor que mediría sustancialmente la tasa de retorno de dicho proyecto, y esto sin cuantificar la
economía por la corrupción que implica el manejar el cheque fiscal que facilita el soborno para el pago.

También es importante mencionar el cambio sustantivo que se ha dado en la recaudación de los tributos lo
cual ha implicado una economía sustancial en todos los procesos; asimismo se cuenta con los recursos en el
tiempo indicado y con la seguridad del caso ya que todo se hace a través del sistema bancario y las cuentas
de recaudo son del Tesoro; la conciliación de las mismas y cruces de información se hace en forma
electrónica lo cual significa una ganancia comparativamente con los procesos del pasado.

Impacto Institucional:

El Gobierno de Guatemala ha llevado a cabo un programa de modernización del sector público (incluyendo
administración financiera) el cual, aunque aún en marcha, ha mejorado de manera indiscutible la
administración pública, especialmente en el área de administración financiera del gobierno. El enfoque del
proceso de modernización es global y abarca todo el sistema. Se ha hecho reingeniería de la administración
institucional, actualización tecnológica, la creación de un nuevo marco legal y operacional y un proceso
masivo de capacitación y transferencia de tecnología. Por medio de este proceso, los funcionarios públicos
a todo nivel están siendo preparados para poder enfrentar el reto de desempeñarse con más profesionalismo
y así obtener mayores resultados.

La reforma ha logrado mejoras significativas en las áreas de formulación, ejecución y control
presupuestario, administración de efectivo, deuda pública y control interno, contabilidad y auditoría del
Gobierno. Los puntos clave de todas estas mejoras han sido: la implementación del Sistema Integrado de


                                                    - 26 -

Administración Financiera (SIAF), el cual actualmente está funcionando de manera amplia en 43 entidades
del gobierno central y 8 entidades descentralizadas; y el diseño e implementación del Sistema de Auditoría
Gubernamental (SAG) que incluye el fortalecimiento de las Unidades de Auditoría Interna (UDAI).

PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO

Factores fuera del control del gobierno o la unidad ejecutora:

Uno de los factores preponderantes fue el retraso en que se incurrió por parte del Organismo Legislativo
para la aprobación de la Ley Orgánica de la Contraloría General de Cuentas CGC, lo cual afectó en gran
medida que la CGC hubiera podido hacer su reestructuración de la institución y a su vez profesionalizar la
labor del auditor gubernamental.

Factores bajo el control del Gobierno:

En realidad no hubo factores bajo el control del Gobierno que hubiesen impedido la implementación del
proyecto, por el contrario hubo siempre un respaldo político y técnico total a la implementación y puesta en
marcha de cada uno de los sistemas y procesos que se ha manejado en la reforma de la administración
financiera.

Factores fuera de la agencia ejecutora:

No hubo ningún obstáculo para llevar a cabo la implementación del proyecto en todas sus etapas de
desarrollo y fortalecimiento de las instituciones del sector público.

Costos y financiamiento:

El costo total del proyecto es de $18.0 millones, de los cuales $15.7 millones fueron financiados por el
Banco y $2.3 millones por el prestatario.

Sostenibilidad:

La sostenibilidad está garantizada en parte porque, a) tiene un marco legal adecuado que obliga y regula su
operación; b) tiene el respaldo institucional del Gobierno que garantiza plenamente su aplicación,
actualización y soporte técnico-financiero; c) esta dotado de instrumentos que permiten generar
transparencia en la gestión financiera del sector público; d) esta dotado de instrumentos y metodologías de
capacitación que permitan conformar y mantener un equipo humano conocedor y responsable de su gestión.

Con la aprobación de la nueva Ley Orgánica de la Contraloría General de Cuentas, se traduce que el SIAF
es un asunto prioritario y obligatorio en todo el Sector Público y que las autoridades que permitan
infracciones al mismo serán debidamente responsabilizadas y sancionadas con multas cuyo valor es
significativo para el funcionario encargado de la administración financiera según se ha definido en dicha
Ley de Fiscalización hacia el sector gubernamental.

DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL Y DEL PRESTATARIO

Banco Mundial

Preparación:


                                                      - 27 -

Siempre se tuvo la asistencia del Banco Mundial para esta etapa de inicio y preparación de la ejecución del
proyecto; basados en su experiencia en este tipo de proyectos se ha podido hacer una fase de preparación
muy acorde a lo que sería el desarrollo del proyecto a través del tiempo.
Supervisión:
Se ha tenido una supervisión constante al proyecto por parte del banco, tanto en la parte administrativa
como en lo técnico: se ha monitoreado constantemente los resultados y avances de cada uno de los
componentes del proyecto.
Desempeño del Banco en su totalidad:
El apoyo del banco ha sido crítico y oportuno en todo momento; ha proporcionado el consejo técnico de alta
calidad en base a su experiencia mundial y regional en administración financiera; ha transmitido
credibilidad y transparencia al esfuerzo de la reforma en Guatemala; y ha fomentado el uso eficiente y
efectivo de los recursos: asimismo ha velado porque se mantenga la transparencia del gasto público y de la
gestión del Gobierno.

Prestatario

Preparación:
Con el apoyo técnico del banco y con la experiencia de los consultores y funcionarios del Ministerio de
Finanzas Públicas se cumplió con esta fase exitosamente, teniendo en cuenta los estándares de calidad que
se exige para un proyecto de esta magnitud.
Desempeño del Gobierno durante la fase de implementación:
La fortaleza del compromiso a nivel de Gobierno para mejorar la administración financiera se demuestra a
través de los resultados obtenidos durante la implementación del proyecto, en donde se han incorporado
todos los Ministerios y secretarias de Estado, asimismo las entidades descentralizadas; la importancia que
las autoridades le han dado al proyecto como respuesta al combate a la corrupción y a las obligaciones
contraídas dentro de los Acuerdos de Paz; la aprobación de importantes leyes de reforma presupuestaria,
municipalidades y de control.
Desempeño de la unidad ejecutora:
La implementación exitosa del proyecto de Administración Financiera II, confirma la capacidad de la
unidad ejecutora para ejecutar el proyecto con calidad y profesionalismo.
Desempeño del Prestatario en su totalidad:
El Gobierno de Guatemala y en especial el actual Ministro de Finanzas Eduardo Weymann, han tenido
siempre como prioridad al SIAF, en parte porque es esencial el fortalecimiento de la administración
financiera para poder alcanzar los objetivos de desarrollo económico y social y de lucha contra la pobreza
plasmados en los Acuerdos de Paz. El Gobierno ha hecho esfuerzos en todos los ámbitos con el propósito
de que la reforma de la administración financiera sea consolidada, incluyendo los gobiernos locales y
entidades descentralizadas.

LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

Las principales lecciones aprendidas dentro de la ejecución de este proyecto se pueden resumir como: (i)
contar con el apoyo político; (ii) aseguramiento del compromiso y de la responsabilidad de la reforma
integral por parte de las autoridades del Gobierno; (iii) contar con planes de trabajo específicos para cada
componente, en donde se definen los resultados, criterios de evaluación y los indicadores de desempeño; (iv)
supervisión y seguimiento continuo del proyecto, especialmente en la contratación de consultores; (v)
contar con una unidad de coordinación altamente calificada y con experiencia y (vi) contratación de
consultores con experiencia reconocida y el poder comparar nuestro sistema con otras prácticas de
administración financiera de Latinoamérica.




                                                   - 28 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Preparation of a set of indices of                                    Indicators prepared by the UDAFs in the line
efficiency and effectiveness by 4/98                                      agencies and autonomous entities in 1999.
                                                                          Aggregate indicators being prepared and will
                                                                          be included in external web site.




1.2 Improvement by 20% in designated                                      Efficiency and effectiveness indicators
indicators of efficiency and effectiveness in                             developed for Ministries of Transport and
the Ministries of Health, Education and                                   Communication, Health, and Education in
Communication between the 1998 and 2001                                   1999 and used in preparation of investment
budgets.                                                                  programs starting in 2002. Specific results
                                                                          not yet available.

2.1 Reduction in average disbursement time                                11% reduction in the variation between
profile of public investment projects by 10%                              approved and executed budgets has been
between the 1998 and 2001 investment                                      exceeded for 43 govt entities, including the
budgets and a 20% reduction in the                                        relevant ministries.
discrepancy between approved and executed
investment budgets of the Ministries of
Health, Education, and Communications
between the 1998 and 2001 budgets.

3.1 Restructuring of the Comptroller's                                    Restructuring of the Comptroller General'
General Office by 12/99; elimination of                                   Office was 30% implemented at project end.
Government payment by check by 12/00; and
reduction in the number of administrative                                 System of payment by check was eliminated,
procedures for payments by 12/01                                          except for Ministry of Education, leading to
                                                                          reduction of 1.8 million checks. For Ministry
                                                                          of Education, 50% of teachers paid by check,
                                                                          equivalent to about 35 million check/year.

                                                                          Majority of accounts consolidated into a
                                                                          Single Account within the National Treasury,
                                                                          and 1,500 accounts eliminated. Model
                                                                          replicated in decentralized agencies-- SAT,
                                                                          EPQ, Organismo Judicial, and IGSS.

                                                                          Number of administrative procedures was
                                                                          reduced from 130 to 12 during project.


Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Formulation of performance-based                                      26 entities by 2000.
annual budget for Ministries of Health,
Education and Communication by 1999 and
all central (26) and 5 decentralized agencies
by 2000


1.2 Execution of budget evaluated by                                      Budget-by results methodology was first
performance, 1/00                                                         used in the preparation of the FY01 budget.
                                                                          The use of this methodology is being
                                                                          widened and deepened across the govt.


1.3 Multi-annual public investment plans                                  Multi-annual public investment plans only
integrated into annual budget document                                    about 90% complete, and included in FY01
                                                                          budget. Link to budget serves as reference,
                                                                          not binding.




                                                       - 30 -

2.1 UDAFs (with trained staff, information                   32 UDAF created and operating by 12/98 and
technology hardware and software, and using                  43 UDAFs by 3/00.
agreed financial management norms and
procedures) operating in 10 agencies by
12/98 and 20 entities by 12/99


2.2 Time between end of fiscal year and                      Time to prepare and execute budget reduced
transmission of annual report on budget                      by 66 percent by anticipated timeframe.
execution reduced 66% (from March, 1997                      Annual accounting closure and reconciliation
for 1996 budget to January, 1999 for 1998                    process automated in government and
budget.                                                      decentralized entities. Payment system in
                                                             National Treasury also automated


                                                             70% of civil servant salaries paid through
3.1 Civil servant salaries paid through the                  banking system for 32 entities by 12/98 and
banking system, 20 entities by 6/98 and 26                   43 by 2000. Ministry of Education is the
entities by 12/98.                                           exception with only 50% salaries paid through
                                                             banking system.

                                                             Monthly cash advances to 32 entities by
3.2 Monthly cash advances to 10 entities by                  12/98 and 43 by 2000.
1/99 and 26 entities by 1/00.
                                                             16,000 public employees trained.
4.1 400 public employees trained (200 MOF
and CGC) and 200 in other public entities by
6/00.                                                        15 UDAI have been created during the
                                                             course of the project. Training provided to
5.1 UDAF (with trained staff, information                    450 auditors. CGC lacks adequate budget
technology, hardware, and software, and                      and personnel and information systems not
using agreed financial management norms                      yet been connected to rest of government.
and procedures) operating in 10 entities by
12/98 and 26 by 12/99 onwards
                                                             N/A
5.2 Satisfactory finding by CGC of UDAI
operations in 5 entities by 12/98, 13 entities
by 12/99, 20 entities by 12/00, and 25 entities
by 12/01.
                                                             CGC Law was approved by Congress on
6.1 Draft laws of the CGC, IFM, Probity and                  May 2002 and went into effect in July 2002.
Responsibility, and Goods and Services                       Probity and Responsibility Law and
Management presented to the Congress by                      Procurement Law were presented to
6/98.                                                        Congress in late 2002 and have not yet been
                                                             approved.

                                                             Decree supporting CGC Law enacted during
6.2 Regulations to the laws adopted within 6                 2002.
months of Congressional approval.
                                                             Public Investment Law was not passed. Key
7.1 Public Investment Law submitted to                       elements have been included in the Organic
Congress by 12/98.                                           Budget Law, currently under Congressional
                                                             review.


                                                             Reorganization of the public investment
7.2. Pre-investment system reorganized                       function within the Technical Directorate for
(with trained staff, information technology,                 the Budget (DTP) completed. SNIP system,
agreed procedures) by 6/99.                                  which includes project database and modules
                                                             for monitoring financial & physical
                                                             performance, became operational in 2001.
                                                             SNIP tracks about 5,400 projects or 88% of
                                                             total public investment project. Work is
                                                             needed to link system with budget ceilings.


                                                             Investmentment manual prepared by the
                                                             anticipated date.



                                                   - 31 -

7.3 Investment evaluation manual published                 Reports on investment execution prepared
by 12/98.                                                  beginning in late 1999, but investments
                                                           carried out by social funds investments have
                                                           not been incorporated within the SNIP. Total
7.4 Reports on investment execution                        coverage is about 88 percent.
(including social funds and decentralized
entities) by 1/99.                                         Not completed.




7.5 Integration into IFM system of                         600 public employees received training in
investment by Soical Fund operations by                    public investment evaluation by mid-1999.
1/99.

7.6 400 public employees trained in public                 Reorganization began in 2000 and full
investment evaluation by 6/99.                             transfer of responsibilities was completed in
                                                           May 2001.

8.1 Debt management unit (with trained staff,
information technology, and procedures for
management of internal and external debt)
established by 6/99.                                       SIGADE system in place since late 1999, but
                                                           link with SICOIN partially completed.
                                                           SIGEPRO is still under development.
8.2 Complete information systems of public
debt established by 1/99.

1End of project




                                                 - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate              Estimate               Appraisal
                             Component                                  US$ million           US$ million
1. Extending Integrated Financial Management                                8.40                       9.44                112.4
2. Strengthening Comptroller General's Offce                                3.70                       2.43                 65.7
3. Strengthening Public Investment Function                                 2.00                       1.87                 93.8
4. Modernizing Public Debt Management                                       1.20                       0.93                 77.4
5. Project Coordination                                                     1.10                       2.87                261.4

Total Baseline Cost                                                        16.40                      17.54
 Physical Contingencies                                                                                0.00                    0
 Price Contingencies                                                        1.60                       0.00                    0
                                Total Project Costs                        18.00                      17.54
                      Total Financing Required                             18.00                      17.54


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     ICB              NCB                      2              N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                Other
1. Works                                      0.00             0.00              0.00                    0.00             0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)                  (0.00)            (0.00)
2. Goods                                      4.50             1.00              0.50                    1.00             7.00
                                            (4.50)             (1.00)           (0.50)                  (0.00)            (6.00)
3. Services                                   0.00             0.00              0.60                    0.00             0.60
Training                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.60)                  (0.00)            (0.60)
Consultant services and                       0.00             0.00              6.80                    0.00             6.80
related expenses
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (6.80)                  (0.00)            (6.80)
4. Operating expenses*                        0.00             0.00              0.90                    0.00             0.90
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.90)                  (0.00)            (0.90)
 5. Unallocated                               0.00             0.00              1.40                    0.30             1.70
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.40)                  (0.00)            (1.40)
    Total                                     4.50             1.00              10.20                   1.30             17.00
                                            (4.50)             (1.00)          (10.20)                  (0.00)           (15.70)
*Operating expenses include technical direction expenses, including management staff, renting, utilities, maintenance expenses
and vehicles, insurance, fuel, and stationery.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     ICB              NCB                      2             N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                      0.00             0.00              0.00                   0.00             0.00
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                      4.70             0.00              0.00                   0.00             4.70



                                                           - 33 -

                                          (4.70)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.70)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.22             0.00              0.22
   Training                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   Consultant services and                 0.00               0.00             10.42             0.00             10.42
   related expenses
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.59)            (0.00)           (9.59)
   4. Operating expenses*                  0.00               0.00              2.21             0.00              2.21
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.21)            (0.00)           (1.21)
    5. Unallocated                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                4.70               0.00             12.85             0.00             17.55
                                          (4.70)             (0.00)           (11.00)            (0.00)           (15.70)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Extending Integrated        6.50         1.90                     8.87         0.57                  136.5     30.0
Financial Management


2. Strengthening               2.70         1.00                     2.29         0.14                  84.8      14.0
Comptroller General's
Office
3. Strengthening Public        1.20         0.80                     1.76         0.11                  146.7     13.8
Investment Function
4. Modernizing Public          0.80         0.40                     0.85         0.08                  106.3     20.0
Debt Management
5. Project Coordination        0.30         0.80                     1.93         0.92                  643.3    115.0




                                                          - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               6/11/1997                 4    SR. PSM SPECIALIST/TM(1);
                                              PSM SPECIALIST,
                                              INFORMATION SPECIALIST,
                                              CONSULTANT

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/06/1997


 Supervision
                                                                                               S
               02/14/1999                5    SR. PSM SPECIALIST/ TM (1);      S               S
                                              PSM SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT (1); HUMAN
                                              RESOURCES (1);
                                              INFORMATICS (1)
               09/29/2000                6    TEAM LEADER (1); MISSION         S               S
                                              MEMBER (4); CONSULTANT
                                              (1)
               09/29/2000                6    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC         S               S
                                              SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                              DESCENTRALIZATION SPEC
                                              (1); ECONOMIST (1); IT SPEC.
                                              (1); HUMAN RESORCES SPEC.
                                              (1)
               10/05/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1); PS              S               S
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                              (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                              (1)
               08/16/2002                7    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC         S               S
                                              SECT. SPECIALIS (1); SENIOR
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                              FMS (1); RES
                                              REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                              INFORMATION SYSTEM SPC
                                              (1)

 ICR
               1/13/03                   1     CONSULTANT                      S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate



                                               - 36 -

                              No. Staff weeks      US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation           10.8                28.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  4.4               21.8
Supervision                          88.0              205.3
ICR                                    1.5                5.0
Total                             104.70               260.2




                                         - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan to the Republic of Guatemala for an
Integrated Financial Management-II Technical Assistance Project, The World Bank, Washington, D.C.,
December 1, 1997.

Loan Agreement (Integrated Financial Management -- II Technical Assistance Loan) between the
Goverment of Guatemala and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, September 11,
1998.

Amendment to the Loan Agreement (Integrated Financial Management -- II Technical Assistance Loan)
between the Goverment of Guatemala and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
June 28, 2000.

Ministry of Public Finance (MFP), "El Sistema de Tesoreria Pública: La Experiencia de Guatemala,"
MFP, Guatemala CIty, Guatemala, March 1999.

The World Bank, Implementation Completion Report On a Loan to the Republic of Guatemala for the
Integrated Financial Management Project, The World Bank, Washington, D.C. February 2, 2000.

Ministry of Public Finance (MFP), Reforma de la Admistración Financiera en Guatemala "Un Historia de
Aciertos" Guatemala "El Sistema de Tesoreria Pública: La Experiencia de Guatemala," MFP, Guatemala,
City, Guatemala, Mayo 2001.

SEGEPLAN, Marco Conceptual Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública (SNIP), SEGEPLAN, Guatemala
City, Guatemala, March 2001.

El Congreso de la Republica de Guatemala, Decreto Numero 31-2002, Guatemala City, Guatemala.




                                                 - 40 -

- 41 -

