Page  1
June 28, 2000
Lic. Manuel Maza Castellanos
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a. Ave., Calle 21
Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
GUATEMALA: Loan No. 4269-GU 
Integrated Financial Management II Technical Assistance Project 
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated September 11, 1998 entered into between 
the Republic of Guatemala (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), as amended.
In response to your request to: (a) increase the percentage of Bank financing of 
local expenditures for goods under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement since the procurement agent is a tax-exempt 
entity; (b) reallocate a portion of Loan proceeds to finance: (i) additional training 
activities for the purpose of expanding the SIAF program; and (ii) goods needed for 
the restructuring of the Comptroller’s Office; and (c) permit the financing of a 
payroll system for the Borrower’s civil service to be linked to SIAF, the Bank hereby 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in 
Annex A to this Amendment Letter.
2.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) and (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but not before twelve months from the date of this 
Agreement.”. 
3.
A new paragraph 5 is added after paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 which shall read as 
follows:
“The percentage of local expenditures for goods to be financed by the Bank under 
Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be 100% in 
case goods are procured through the services of UNDP.”.
4.
A new activity is added under Part A of Schedule 2, said Part to read as set 
forth in Annex B to this Amendment Letter.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will be effective as of the date first above 
written. Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Page  2
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Manuel Hiram Maza Castellanos
Authorized Representative
Date:
September 19, 2000
Annex A
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
Expressed in Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  5,450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
for local
expenditures of 
goods, see 
paragraph 5 of this 
Schedule
(2)
Consultants’ services
(a) 
under the Project
   5,800,000)
other than under
Part B (d) through
(f) of the Project
100%
(b)
under Part B (d)
     550,000
through (f) of the
Project
(3)
Training
   1,600,000
100%
(4)
Operating Costs
     900,000
100% until 
withdrawals under 
this Category have 
reached an 
aggregate amount 
of 325,000; 85% 
until withdrawals 
under this 
Category have 
reached an 
aggregate amount 
of $650,000; and 
70% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
  1,400,000
TOTAL
15,700,000”.
Annex B
“Part A:
Integrated Financial Management Reform
1.
Improvement of the methodologies in the areas described below to implement the 
Page  3
financial management subsystems (designed and being implemented under Part A of the 
IFM-I) in the non-financial public sector institutions, through the provision of 
technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of goods, and 
thereafter implementation of such subsystems in such institutions: 
(a)
Budgeting: (i) testing and improvement of the new budgeting-by results 
methodology; (ii) assisting the Borrower in the preparation and execution of its 
annual budgets for the years 1999, 2000 and 2001; and (iii) design of additional 
indicators to monitor the Borrower’s performance during the execution of its annual 
budgets;
(b)
Accounting: preparation of accounting manuals for the non-financial 
public sector institutions listed in Annex B to the Implementation Letter;
(c)
Cash Management: (i) improvement of the single bank account mechanism to 
manage the flow of funds resulting from the execution of the Borrower’s annual 
budgets; (ii) improvement of the methodology which determines the payment quotas to 
the public sector during the execution of the Borrowers’ annual budgets; (iii) design 
and implementation of a direct communication system to be adopted by MOF, BOG and the 
banking sector in order to enable MOF and BOG to obtain information concerning the 
amount of public revenues collected by the banking sector on behalf of the Borrower; 
and (iv) expansion of the scope of the electronic funds transfer methodology used by 
the public sector institutions to pay their financial obligations; and
(d)
Procurement: (i) design and implementation of a procurement system to be 
applied by the Borrower’s public sector; and (ii) design and implementation of a 
system to manage the Borrower’s fixed assets and storage facilities.  
2.
(a)
Deconcentration of the Borrower’s financial management responsibility and 
transfer of such responsibility to the non-financial public sector institutions 
(listed in Annex A to the Implementation Letter) to manage their corresponding 
financial resources; and 
(b)
establishment of UDAFs and UDAIs in each public sector institution 
referred to in (a) herein, including the provision of training to the personnel in 
such units. 
3.
Adoption of the Borrower’s computer-based subsystems (designed and being 
implemented under Part B of the IFM-I) by the non-financial public sector institutions 
listed in Annex A to the Implementation Letter. 
4.
Carrying out of a campaign to inform the public concerning the integrated 
financial management and control reform being carried under IMF-I and under the 
Project. 
5.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of INFOM to provide services to the 
Borrower’s municipalities with respect to integrated financial management through the 
provision of technical assistance and training.
6.
Design of a payroll system for the Borrower’s civil service, said system to be 
linked to SIAF, including the implementation of said system in MOF and the Borrower’s 
Ministries of Economy and Labor.”.
