              Document of
            The World Bank




                                           Report No: 29679

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (IDA-32830)

                  ON A

                 CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                 TO THE

         KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                FOR AN

 EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




            September 30, 2004

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective August 23, 1999)

                             Currency Unit = Riel
                                       Riel = US$ 0.000260
                                    US$ 1 = 3844

                                Kingdom of Cambodia
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 January   December

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DCA     -     Development Credit Agreement
DFID    -     Department for International Development (U.K.)
DOE     -     District Office of Education
ESSP    -     Education Sector Support Program
EQIP    -     Education Quality Improvement Project
IME     -     Inter-provincial Monitoring Exercises
LIL     -     Learning and Innovations Loan
LTA     -     Lead Technical Advisor
LSCS    -     Local School Cluster Committee
MOEYS   -     Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport
NCDGE   -     National Committee for the Development of General Education
NGO     -     Non-governmental Organization
PAP     -     Priority Action Programs
PETS    -     Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PGMC    -     Provincial Grant Management Committees
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
POE     -     Provincial Office of Education
PPIU    -     Provincial Project Implementation Unit
SDRs    -     Special Drawing Rights
SIDA    -     Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
UNICEF  -     United Nations Children's Fund
VSO     -     Voluntary Service Overseas (U.K.)



                           Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director     Ian C. Porter
                           Sector Director    Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Luis Benveniste

                                         CAMBODIA
                   EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P059971                                                  Project Name: EDUCATION QUALITY
                                                                     IMPROVEMENT
Team Leader: Luis Benveniste                                         TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-32830
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General education sector (79%); Central government administration
                            (19%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Social
                            analysis and monitoring (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/09/1998                                     Effective: 12/20/1999                12/20/1999
     Appraisal: 05/25/1999                                         MTR: 10/08/2001                  10/08/2001
      Approval: 08/31/1999                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ROYAL KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH
                                           AND SPORT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Luis Benveniste                                Christopher J. Thomas
ICR Primary Author:             Rosemary T. Bellew; Luis
                                Benveniste; Sandra F. Erb


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to develop and put into practice "a participatory approach to
school quality improvement and performance based resource management." More specifically,
the project espoused the following goals. First, schools participating in the program should
increasingly demonstrate characteristics of effective schools and ultimately demonstrate
improvements in student enrollment, attendance, student flows, and achievement. Second,
Government policy both supports and is enriched by innovative practice at the school level.
Government was to draw lessons from practice for policies to improve teacher motivation, lower
the cost of education, reduce repetition and dropout, and increase the time available for learning.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1 ­ Quality Improvement Grants Program (US$3.95 million) was the
centerpiece of this Learning and Innovations Loan (LIL). The goal was to establish a process in
which the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MOEYS) policy both supported and was
enriched by practice at the school level. The school grants process began with the development of
a vision for effective schools, based on inputs from a variety of experts within MOEYS, key
stakeholders and practitioners. Animators, with that vision in mind, worked with communities
and school clusters to identify problems and solutions in their own schools and in the development
of cluster improvement plans to be used as the basis for preparing grant proposals. Proposals
were reviewed at province level by a grants committee to ensure that they were in line with
national priorities and informed by best practices. Once proposals were approved, funds were
distributed to schools in an open and transparent manner. Animators returned to schools to help
clusters implement their programs and to assist in monitoring and evaluation. Lessons learned
from the implementation of the grants were gathered and fed back into the further development of
the vision of effective schools and improvement of the animation process.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Strengthening (US$0.72 million). This component was an
important secondary objective of the project and a natural by-product of the grants program itself.
This component was to focus specifically on institutional strengthening and had three
subcomponents: (i) a National Committee on Effective Schooling was to be established to serve
as a steering and oversight body for the project ($0.035 m); (ii) studies on key policy issues in the
education sector were to be conducted ($0.188 m); and (iii) resources would be provided to
enhance the operational budgets of provincial and district offices funded from counterpart funds
($0.5 m).

Component 3 ­ Project Management (US$0.88 million) was designed to support a national
level Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and a Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) in
each participating project province to facilitate program implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT GRANTS;               $3,950,000.00;   HS
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING;                $720,000.00;   S



                                                  - 2 -

PROJECT MANAGEMENT;                               $880,000.00;    S

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry, as assessed by the peer reviewers, was satisfactory. The peer reviewers and the
project preparation process recognized the fact that Cambodia was a new client in the education
sector and this project was a small-scale operation that would assist in strengthening education
policy decision making as well as service delivery and institutional capacity at all governance
instances in three provinces. It was also recognized that flexibility would be introduced to help
empower officials at the school and local levels to take charge of their own development agendas.
Two partnerships were forged to support project implementation at the local level. The World
Food Program established a community-driven school breakfast program in a sample of schools.
Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) and the United Kingdom Department for International
Development (DFID) provided technical assistance for district- and school-based activities.
These partnerships provided significant inputs that were important toward the achievement of the
project development objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives under the Education Quality Improvement Project (EQIP) is
satisfactory. A notable increase in primary enrollments, for both boys and girls, can be observed
in the three EQIP provinces throughout the life of the project. But this trend also holds true for
the rest of the nation during this period.


                                     Student enrollments in EQIP Provinces


                           700,000

                           600,000

                           500,000
                                                                                       Male
                           400,000
                                                                                       Female
                           300,000
                   Students                                                            Total
                           200,000

                           100,000

                                0
                                  1998-1999 1999-2000 2000-2001 2001-2002 2002-2003

                                                        Year



EQIP's main outcomes at the school level were lower dropout rates and higher promotion rates.
A multivariate analysis of school participation indicators, comparing supported to non-supported
schools in the same provinces, shows that EQIP participation translated into approximately 30-40
students per year per cluster who remained in school that would have otherwise left. In addition,
positive changes in promotion rates are on the order of between 1 and 2.5 percentage points per
year. EQIP participation was also associated with significantly higher test scores in literacy and,
to a lesser degree, numeracy, even when controlling for a range of community, school and teacher
background characteristics. (ICR supporting document EQIP School Grants Evaluation: Final



                                                        - 3 -

Report, 2004).

Extensive classroom observations by an independent qualitative impact assessment (ICR
supporting document Evaluation of the Impact of the Education Quality Improvement Project,
2002) and the PPIUs Inter-provincial Monitoring Exercises (IME) provide evidence about
teachers adopting more child-friendly approaches to classroom routines, classroom management,
and teaching and learning. Implementation progress reports as well as MOEYS study teams have
found that EQIP has been critical for invigorating Local School Cluster Committees' (LSCSs)
ability to support the process of proposal writing, allocation of funds, implementation of activities
and accounting for expenditures. Improvements to school grounds, classroom environments,
school libraries, teachers' stocks of lesson plans and teaching materials have also been realized.
The qualitative impact assessment systematically compared EQIP implementation to similar type
of educational quality enhancement interventions in other provinces. EQIP was described as a
"groundbreaking" project.

EQIP's main impact at the district level has been in boosting the status of the District Office of
Education (DOE) in supporting decentralization through the provision of support services to
school clusters and guidance in institutional development planning. Provincial Offices of
Education (POEs) strengthened their capacity to collect data on educational indicators and school
development process monitoring. Progress of clusters and individual schools was assessed
through a comprehensive yet simple report card system. Interventions were increasingly better
targeted through school level evidence and feedback was provided to teachers, school and cluster
directors, technical group leaders and cluster trainers.

These changes in administrative as well as teaching and learning behaviors were largely achieved
through a "learning-by-doing" approach, where MOEYS officials and educators put into practice
new skills, gained confidence in their implementation and learned from the results obtained.

At the national level, the EQIP demonstration model of a participatory approach to school quality
improvement and performance-based resource management was utilized by MOEYS as a basis for
the development of the Priority Action Programs (PAP). The PAP disbursement channel provides
school operational budgets that helped abolish school registration fees. Lessons learned from
EQIP implementation have also been integrated to provide support to schools to more effectively
utilize their operational budgets. The Government launched PAP one year after EQIP started.
EQIP's aim to provide information on field-level experiences and innovations to inform planners
at the national level enjoyed some successes, most notably the issuing by the Minister of a circular
on the decentralization of the school timetable. MOEYS acknowledged the efficacy and
efficiency of the cluster system, especially in the delivery of technical assistance support and
responsibility for information management.

EQIP has been used as a model for the development of education projects in Indonesia, Vanuatu
and Afghanistan and has been cited as a best practice in several regional studies on
community-driven development (CDD), decentralization and low-income countries under stress
(LICUS).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Quality Improvement Grants Program (US$3.95 million). This component
is rated highly satisfactory. The component was intended to: (a) provide grants to school clusters


                                                  - 4 -

in three Provinces for priority interventions determined at the local level for the purpose of
developing a demonstration model to improve school effectiveness; (b) support the staffing and
capacity building of district animator services; (c) build capacity of Provincial Grant Management
Committees; and (d) monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of cluster grants processing and
outcomes.

Intended outputs included: (i) improved ability of clusters to define their own quality
improvement programs; (ii) school clusters demonstrating more characteristics of effective
schools; (iii) a group of resourceful animators that learn from experience and use these lessons to
improve and inform policy; (iv) education management information available at cluster level and
utilized for planning and evaluation purposes; (v) establishment of model methods of policy
formation and supervision; (vi) increased devolution of authority for decision making for school
and classroom management; and (vii) more flexibility in national policies.

Through the project, MOEYS has successfully developed and implemented a school grants model
to fund education quality improvements. Grants were awarded as planned, starting first as a pilot
in ten clusters in two districts of Takeo Province and then gradually scaling up province-wide.
The same process of piloting and scaling up was followed in the extension phase, initially to five
districts in the two other provinces in the second year, then to all districts of all three provinces by
the third year. This approach recognized, and allowed for, the need to build the required capacity
to support the grants process among animators as well as district and provincial staff. The project
demonstrated that, with the appropriate support mechanisms, funds can be provided to clusters
and schools in a timely and transparent fashion and that such funds can be used effectively for
school improvement with a high degree of accountability.

A school improvement planning process is well anchored in participating schools and clusters.
Over time, school development plans showed evidence of improved ability to define priorities and
action plans. Models of good practice have been developed. There are many visible signs of
improvement in school environments, a broadening of the concept of education from one focused
on textbook learning to the whole in-school experience, the effectiveness of a learning by doing
approach, and the value of learning from the experience of others. Educationalists at the
grassroots levels have developed a broader vision of effective schooling, as well as effective
strategies for school management and better quality teaching and learning. They have become
increasingly confident with experimenting with new ideas and less fearful of possible failure,
although innovation has been undermined at times by the imposition of traditional practice by
some officials. Education management data was also available at the school and cluster levels
which enabled clusters to monitor indicators of enrollment, repetition and dropout. These
indicators had not been used or monitored previously. This approach enabled clusters to link
more clearly the impact of school improvement on outcome indicators.

In-service teacher training was the most common activity implemented, expending over 50
percent of grant funds. The EQIP impact evaluation study showed a robust relationship between
funds devoted to teacher development and improvements in student learning. In addition, the
high demand for in-service training revealed a serious lack of qualified trainers at all levels and
made visible the need to develop a system linked to the teacher training colleges. Nevertheless,
the utilization of the cluster system, combined with significant in-service capacity building,
facilitated the exchange of ideas across schools and the sharing of experience across clusters and



                                                 - 5 -

provinces which created a community of educationalists focused on improving school
effectiveness. Teacher training activities helped to revitalize the MOEYS weekly sessions
traditionally reserved for this purpose and bring about incipient improvements in teacher practices
by incorporating some characteristics of child-centered learning.

Pupil learning materials, libraries and equipment were the other main investment items using EQIP
grant funds. For equipment, the overall expenditures declined with time; while remedial classes,
student health initiatives and school infrastructure investments grew in popularity throughout
project implementation. The patterns of expenditure were largely similar across provinces. The
table below provides a summary of variations in the share of per-pupil investments over 5 years in
Takeo.

          Percentage of Total Per-Pupil Expenditures by Category, Takeo Province

                                                                            Year

     Category                                     Pilot        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4

     Teacher Development                         44.7%         57.2%       53.3%       48.1%         36.8%
     Pupil Learning Materials                    12.8%         10.5%       11.3%       11.8%         21.1%
     Equipment                                   19.6%         6.1%         3.8%        3.7%          4.6%
     Libraries                                   12.1%         12.6%       12.7%       17.5%         15.8%
     Community Participation                     3.8%          2.1%         3.2%        4.2%          3.1%
     Local Cluster School Committee (LCSC)       1.8%          3.0%         3.4%        2.8%          2.4%
     LCSC Administration                         1.5%          1.7%         2.1%        1.2%          3.0%
     Infrastructure Classroom                    2.1%          0.4%         0.4%        0.0%          0.2%
     Infrastructure School                       1.6%          1.8%         3.9%        2.9%          5.6%
     Remedial classes                            0.0%          2.0%         0.2%        2.0%          1.2%
     Student Health                              0.0%          2.5%         5.1%        4.1%          5.3%
     Vocational Training                         0.0%          0.0%         0.4%        1.7%          0.8%


     Source: EQIP School Grants Evaluation: Final Report , April 2004.
     Notes: Each number refers to percentage of total cluster per-pupil expenditure devoted to a specific
     category.

Equally significant, the grant proposal process has raised in selected instances the level of
community participation beyond the contribution of funds and labor for construction to
participation in broader school activities and curriculum.

These results are attributable to the existence of a group of resourceful animators to support
school improvement which the project has developed with the assistance of VSO volunteers
placed at the district level and Lead Technical Advisors (LTAs) at the Provincial level. It is
apparent that the school improvement capacity of Ministry human resources is stronger in Takeo
Province, which has benefited from five years of continuous IDA investments and previous
investments from UNICEF. In the other two provinces, with more limited exposure to EQIP
interventions, animators have lesser degrees of sufficiency and confidence.

Project implementation was heavily monitored and evaluated at all levels. The sheer volume of



                                                       - 6 -

documentation rendered made it at times cumbersome for easy dissemination to policy makers.
Financial monitoring was also heavy. The regular production of reports and accounting forms
consumed a great deal of time of animators and technical assistants which took time away from
direct support services to schools. Nevertheless, the reports contained useful information for the
final quantitative analysis of the project. One of the more interesting findings related to the
monitoring mechanism was that it showed that animators provided similar information on school
evaluation reports as international technical personnel (i.e., LTAs and VSO volunteers). This is
an important step toward creating a culture of evaluation in Cambodia since district personnel
supported by effective field level implementation training of the kind provided by EQIP could
perform a monitoring function all over the country. Monitoring consisted of regular appraisals of
educational quality, based on school and classroom observations of teaching, management and
environmental conditions.

The original evaluation design intended to compare EQIP provincial averages on various
educational indicators to the nationwide average. However, in 2000, as part of the Education
Sector Support Program (ESSP), MOEYS supported a massive and effective national campaign
to increase primary enrollments. This made it more difficult to disentangle the impact of EQIP
from other interventions. Nonetheless, as noted above, the quantitative analysis conducted at the
end of the project took advantage of the gradual phasing of the program within each province to
show that, all else equal, EQIP interventions were associated with a range of modest, yet
statistically robust improvements in test scores on literacy and numeracy exams, lower dropout
rates and higher promotion rates.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Strengthening (US$0.72 million). This component is rated
satisfactory. The project had some important impact on national policies in its first few years of
operation in introducing flexibility in school hours timetabling and the devolution to school staff
of greater responsibility for resource management. However, the feedback mechanism designed
to transmit lessons learned in the field to the central level became less effective over time as its
main channel ­ the National Committee on Effective Schooling ­ was disbanded in 2001 as part
of a Ministry rationalization of an excess of working groups. The single committee promised at
the time (the National Committee for the Development of General Education) was never
established, leaving a vacuum in the Ministry's processes for feedback from field operations.
Nevertheless, it is clear that the government, and especially MOEYS, was aware of project
progress. The Ministry sent numerous missions to the provincial, district, cluster and school
levels. Hence, even without the benefit of the National Committee, it remained in tune with
ongoing interventions. What was missing from the feedback process was a structured opportunity
to systematically discuss with the Ministry and other stakeholders policy issues which arose
during the implementation of the project.

The annual MOEYS-Donor-NGO joint reviews of the Education Sector Support Program
(ESSP) became the main avenue for debate and dissemination of lessons learned from the project.
As a result of discussions from the 2001/5 ESSP, UNICEF/SIDA published two reviews of
school cluster experiences that reflected on the experiences of EQIP and others (ICR supporting
documents Cluster School Development in Cambodia: Analysis of Process and Outcomes, July
2002, and Education Decentralization and Cluster Review Study, August 2002). At present, as
part of the Education Strategic Plan 2004-08, the MOEYS has engaged in a lively debate
regarding the institutionalization of the school cluster system within the Ministry's formal


                                                  - 7 -

organizational structure or the continuation of its current informal status as a mechanism to
provide teaching and learning support services.

The project also undertook annual assessments of student achievement in Grade 4 in participating
provinces in order to assess changes over time and to appraise results in relation to three
comparator provinces. Despite the fact that there were some consistency and equating problems
with tests over time, small sample sizes from control provinces and some cheating problems, it
was possible to draw important conclusions from the project statistical analysis regarding
variables associated with academic success. For instance, there was a robust relationship between
funds devoted to teacher development and student learning. Investments in equipment and school
infrastructure were also associated with higher promotion rates. Finally, schools with parent
associations and attached preschools had higher test scores, higher promotion rates and lower
dropout. Cost effectiveness comparisons suggest that teacher training and health/vocational
training interventions were relatively successful, which was also true for establishing preschool
classes. Based on the assessment work conducted during the implementation of EQIP, the
MOEYS is planning to launch a national assessment system of student achievement in the near
future with financing from the proposed Basic Education Support Program. In addition, the
Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) has administered the EQIP student achievement test
on a national sample to evaluate education quality.

Component 3 ­ Project Management (US$0.88 million). The overall rating of this component
is satisfactory. This component was designed to finance a PIU to manage the overall direction of
the project, assist all groups in identifying implementation difficulties, facilitate technical
assistance as well as provide training to district animators, PPIUs and Provincial Grant
Management Committees (PGMC) in the screening and evaluation of grant proposals. In
addition, PIU staff was to monitor all financial and procurement aspects of the project. The PIU
aptly managed and coordinated the implementation of a highly decentralized work program. Field
monitoring gave the PIU insights into lessons learned that could be fed back to the national level
for policy input. Heavy administrative and reporting demands on the PIU, however, could at
times isolate central level staff from provincial offices.

The training activities organized by the PIU/PPIUs provided local level staff with adequate skills
for collecting data on educational indicators, monitoring the grants process, reviewing progress of
clusters and individual schools as well as implementing the project procurement and financial
management requirements. Early in the project, it became clear that PGMCs needed to review
grant proposals with greater rigor and could benefit from stronger skills in the identification of
factors constraining education quality. Efforts were developed to improve the review process and
improve PGMCs ability to provide better guidance.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The overall cost-effectiveness of EQIP, as measured by the return on expenditures in the project,
is modest. Cost effectiveness comparisons suggest that very small investments in health and
vocational training can be associated with one percent improvements in promotion and dropout
rates. For teacher development, the total cost per pupil is also relatively low, but its impact is
relatively high. Investments in preschools appear to be very cost effective, but the possibility
remains that this result may be driven by unobserved differences between schools that have
preschools attached and those that do not. The results for reducing class size echo a common


                                                  - 8 -

theme in the economics of education literature: reducing the student-teacher ratio improves
student outcomes but in cost-effectiveness terms it does not appear to be an effective policy
mechanism.


                                        COST-EFFECTIVENESS SIMULATIONS:
           THE COST IN DOLLARS PER PUPIL TO ACHIEVE A ONE PERCENT IMPROVEMENT IN STUDENT OUTCOMES



                                                  STUDENT FLOWS:                         ACHIEVEMENT:
    VARIABLE:
                                           PROMOTION            DROPOUT           LITERACY        NUMERACY


    EQIP All Expenditures                     $1.19               $1.82             $2.24             $3.18
    EQIP By Component:
      Teacher Development                     $0.57               $0.77             $0.93             $1.01
      Health and Vocational                   $0.17               $0.14              ----              ----

    School and Teacher Characteristics:
      Adding Preschool Teacher
        Assumption 1                          $0.26               $0.24              ----              ----
        Assumption 2                          $0.13               $0.12              ----              ----
      Adding Grade 1-6 teacher                $2.62               $6.55            $13.10              ----

  Source: EQIP School Grants Evaluation: Final Report, April 2004.
  Note: Improvement indicates one percent increase in promotion rates, literacy and numeracy test scores and
  one percent decrease in dropout rates. Assumption 1 for Preschool uses the minimum salary for a primary
  school qualified teacher, while Assumption 2 is half of this to account for a lower paid, non-qualified teacher.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
EQIP has had a number of positive impacts on the institutional development of the Cambodian
education system. First, the project provided on-the-ground evidence about the feasibility of the
decentralization of education financial management processes. The introduction of direct
disbursements to schools set the stage for the development of the PAP program. Through the
PAP program, all schools in Cambodia now have access to school operating budgets.

Second, the project also played an important role in boosting the status of the District Office of
Education (DOE) by providing it with a key role in supporting decentralization. DOEs became
active providers of support services to schools and clusters. This change took place at a time
when the role of the DOE was also being reinforced by the establishment of Budget Management
Centers under the PAP program. Independent consultant reports confirm that communications
and coordination within districts have reached higher levels due to the fact that animators
previously were, for the most part, district office staff members. The project helped "redefine"
their jobs to make them more effective and structured, thereby putting them in more regular
contact with schools.




                                                       - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of Government affecting project implementation
and outcomes. The project benefited from a partnership with the World Food Program, the UK
Department for International Development and VSO that contributed important complementary
financial resources and interventions in support of project development objectives.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As has been pointed out in a report on cluster effectiveness, dealing with schools collectively
rather than individually allowed the government to channel technical support to facilitate school
development planning, resource utilization and performance enhancements (UNICEF/SIDA,
2002, p. 9). Working with an established network of school directors, cluster based teachers and
community members enabled MOEYS and project staff to foster reflective educational
communities working together towards a shared goal while at the same time taking advantage of
economies of scale in the access to and utilization of scarce resources, particularly in capacity
building activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project staff at the central and decentralized levels, together with the cadre of VSO volunteers,
demonstrated resolute commitment and strong leadership throughout the life of the project.
Unwavering dedication and effective problem solving skills provided a solid foundation for
implementation. The team consistently met its targets with regard to human resource
development, performance monitoring and project implementation. This commitment translated
into the notable improvements in educational outcomes, teaching practices and administrative
behavior described above.

5.4 Costs and financing:
By project closure, the Ministry had disbursed all of the original 3.7 million SDRs. The
fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the project meant that the total
amount of US Dollars disbursed from the credit was US$ 4,873,410.99 rather than the US$ 5
million estimated at appraisal. Despite this all major project activities were completed as initially
designed. Counterpart funds during the early stages of EQIP implementation were delayed, even
though a detailed counterpart funds schedule was provided in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA). This issue was resolved mid-term when the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF)
agreed that they would provide the backlog of counterpart funds as well as the remaining
financing based on a detailed schedule of upfront deposits. Future Bank-supported projects
would benefit from the practice of writing a schedule of counterpart payments into the DCA.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for overall project sustainability appear to be good. The project provided a
demonstration model for effective schools which influenced the design of PAP, an activity menu
driven flow of resources. PAP uses a performance based resource management approach, but



                                                     - 10 -

based on the decentralization of decision making to the school level. Over the past four years, the
timeliness and reliability of PAP disbursements has been weak, but MOEYS and MOEF have
repeatedly expressed their commitment to improve the PAP disbursement schedule. The Asian
Development Bank and the European Commission have been collaborating with MOEYS to
strengthen the PAP system.

Capacity building efforts at the district level led by animators will be retained de facto within the
EQIP provinces as animators resume their role as DOE inspectors. Thus, the major innovations
of the EQIP project are likely to continue provided that funding for school level visits continues
to be prioritized. The absence of incentives for participation in extended teacher training sessions
or comprehensive district level supervision may affect the level of attention and intensity provided
to this type of activity.

One of the challenges for the sustainability of the EQIP model is to maintain the necessary
continuous injection of new ideas that came with the technical assistance provided by Volunteer
Service Overseas and the province-level Lead Technical Advisors. Many school/cluster staff,
animators and provincial officers have reached a plateau in their learning and understanding of
effective schooling. Without additional stimuli, it will be difficult to continue to improve school
quality.

The future of the school cluster system in Cambodia is uncertain. Whether on a formal or an
informal basis, provinces which have had a positive experience with clusters are likely to continue
to rely on them as a decentralized support network, fostering the exchange of experiences and
offering a framework for regular in­service training. The effectiveness of clusters, however, will
ultimately depend on the availability of district level facilitators to motivate and facilitate
professional dialogue and pedagogical reflection.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The national rollout of PAP has minimized the need for special transition arrangements. The
Priority Action Program is now fully integrated into the MOEYS regular operations, reducing the
private costs to education, providing basic supplies and educational resources for schools and
offering remedial instruction for students at risk. However, there is a need for: (i) a sound
monitoring mechanism to ensure that PAP resources reach schools in full and in a timely basis;
and (ii) a sustained effort to address remaining problems in primary education related to late entry,
student dropout and educational quality enhancement. These are priority areas under
consideration for the upcoming Education Strategic Plan 2004-08. A Public Expenditure
Tracking Survey is currently under implementation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
World Bank financing provided funding for improving the quality of primary education and the
decentralization of educational service delivery. Appropriate resources were mobilized to field
comprehensive teams for project development. Numerous relevant studies were undertaken to
inform the quality of the emerging LIL project design.



                                                  - 11 -

7.2 Supervision:
World Bank supervision has been robust, focused and diligent, identifying and resolving
educational issues as well as financial management and procurement problems. Bank staff and the
use of national and international consultants brought both efficiencies and synergies to the
supervision process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The World Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The project benefited from a stable team
from lending through project closure. Lending and supervision missions included the required
expertise to provide technical advice and ensure compliance with the legal agreements.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MOEYS preparation team worked in a highly participatory manner with the Bank, provinces,
districts and schools during project design. Through a PHRD grant, several studies were
commissioned to inform project preparation. A pilot program of the project concept and
procedures was field tested prior to project effectiveness. EQIP goals and methodology built on
lessons learned from on-going programs to enhance educational quality (e.g., as supported by
UNICEF, KAPE and Save the Children Norway). Simplicity in project procedures made it easy
to implement.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall government implementation performance was satisfactory. MOEYS, at both the
national and provincial levels, had never implemented a World Bank project before EQIP.
MOEYS agencies progressively learned the intricacies of Bank guidelines, ensuring a smooth and
successful implementation. The borrower also provided the necessary counterpart funds, albeit
initially with some delays, to complete all project-supported activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency was highly satisfactory. The (Provincial)
Project Implementation Units (PIU/PPIUs) provided sound direction and support for all program
activities. A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system was established, which proved to
be an important step toward fostering a culture of evaluation in Cambodia. The PIU/PPIUs
organized workshops to disseminate good practices and ran study tours for national and
non-project provinces to disseminate lessons learned. The PIU worked closely with the World
Bank Task Team to develop and implement a financial management system that was able to
monitor closely the flows of project financing and ensure that there was no misuse of project
funds. There was a largely flawless procurement process with no misprocurements. All in all, the
service of the implementing units was excellent.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The MOEYS team faced a steep learning
curve during the initial years of the project with regards to Bank procedures and regulations.
Project staff demonstrated great dedication and commitment throughout program preparation and
implementation.




                                                 - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

l When introducing innovations to promote changes in educational quality, there is a need to
   gradually build the concept of effective schools from the ground up, often starting out with
   essential inputs of supplies, teacher training and basic management practices.

l In-service teacher training must have strong connections with the mainstream teacher training
   department and institutions if the programs are to have enduring benefits.

l To change attitudes and pedagogical practices at the classroom level requires sustained effort
   over time and support at all management and policymaking levels. Champions of change at
   the central, provincial and district levels are particularly important in a context where
   hierarchal relations dominate. Furthermore, technical assistance is important for the injection
   of new ideas and continuous reinforcement of those new ideas. Capacity building is a
   necessary condition to effect lasting institutional change. This is especially important and
   useful at decentralized levels.

l Take into account the constraints of the environment and work within existing structures
   rather than outside of them. In this respect, it was a fortunate benefit of Ministry insistence
   that animators be selected from the ranks of District Education Officers (as opposed to the
   initial project proposal for importing outstanding classroom practitioners). This insistence has
   allowed provinces to retain better trained staff and ensure the continuation of changed
   practices.

l Projects that build institutional capacity and utilize existing government structures for
   implementation have a greater chance of success, as compared to projects that rely on
   independent stand-alone implementation units. The full integration of project implementation
   into relevant central and provincial agencies will enhance sustainability and program
   management.

l Strong and open communication with policymakers at the national level is important for the
   dissemination of best practices. Information must be presented in an easily readable and
   understandable form in the local language in order to reach the target audiences and influence
   the overall policy dialogue.

l Salary supplements and similar incentive practices are a double edged sword. It is difficult to
   predict if teachers will continue to participate in in-service training with equal enthusiasm in
   the absence of monetary incentives to put in the extra half day of work per week or whether
   animators will maintain for long, without some form of support and compensation for
   additional effort, the level of dedication and flexibility displayed during project
   implementation.

l Innovation programs require continuous supervision and effective monitoring and evaluation
   systems in order to adapt and adopt lessons learned over the course of implementation.
   Adequate resourcing is a condition to accomplish these tasks properly.




                                                 - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EQIP gradually propagated itself through three neighboring provinces by a process of
demonstrating its methods and their outcomes. As participating clusters developed the level of
competence to serve as models, it was relatively easy for teachers, directors, parents and
community leaders of newly recruited clusters to travel to nearby models to learn the new
strategies by observation ­ rather than by training courses which attempt to present new concepts
in the abstract.

Over a period of five years the EQIP model was progressively propagated by demonstration, from
the 10 initial clusters to an additional 162 developed clusters, covering all schools in all three
provinces.

Starting from ten clusters in the Takeo pilot program (1998-99):

    1. EQIP in its first year extended to all clusters in Takeo (adding 42),
    2. in its second year to all clusters in two neighboring districts of Kampot and three
        neighboring districts of Kandal (adding 29 clusters), and
    3. from the beginning of the third year of EQIP, to include all clusters in all three provinces
        (adding 76 clusters in October 2001).

Observations and reports by Ministry staff, supported by external evaluations, both qualitative and
quantitative, have confirmed that the project objective was achieved in schools newly
characterized by:

    l strengthened Local Cluster School Committees as the formal instrument of school and
        community participation in improvement planning,
    l observable quality improvement in school operations,
    l improved, transparent and accountable resource management, focused on specific annual
        cluster chosen targets for teacher, school and community performance.

The growing number of communities, schools, education officials and international groups
requesting permission to visit EQIP supported schools is ample testimony to the widespread
recognition of the effectiveness of the project as a demonstration model.

By the final year of the EQIP grant program the quality improvement strategies had become
refined by field experience, documented by instruments (e.g., streamlined grant proposal
processes and school monitoring reports) and consolidated in manuals developed and tested by
staff in the field (rather than in central offices).

The Experience of EQIP Year 5

In the fifth year of EQIP, following the end of the EQIP grants to school clusters, the three EQIP
supported provinces gave priority to:




                                                    - 14 -

    1. consolidating their quality improvement demonstration model as a comprehensive strategy
        for improving learning and teaching,
    2. working with five neighboring partner provinces and municipalities to make them aware of
        options for school quality improvement, essentially through excursions of school and
        community personnel to observe established EQIP processes in action, and
    3. assisting selected schools in poor communes in each district of the partner provinces to
        establish model school libraries as an illustration of what can be achieved by focusing
        funding on a particular outcome.

Reports this year from the three EQIP supported provinces illustrate the fruits of five years spent
achieving the EQIP objective.

The first benefit of the partnership visits was unplanned and unexpected. EQIP staff returning
from the neighboring provinces reported their surprise in seeing schools at the same state of
development as their own schools had been prior to EQIP ­ "We had forgotten how far we had
come!"

The most significant lesson from the partnership experience was that strategies, processes and
instruments which had been painstakingly field tested and refined over a five year period of
intensive development could now be demonstrated to visiting delegations in a period of three to
five days.

As reported by Kampot province in its Final Year 5 Report, the EQIP School Monitoring and
Classroom Observation Reports were presented to and school trialled by partner provinces over a
period of one week.

The essential groundwork has been laid for a speedier and less intensive, more extensive and less
expensive, demonstration process of propagating participatory, performance based resource
management of school quality improvement to other provinces. This objective will be built into
the Ministry's Education Strategy Plan.

The partnership experience illustrated also the benefits of a Learning and Innovations Loan. Even
where the goal is not achieved, planners can learn from the innovation experience what does not
work, why, and the scale of what further efforts might be necessary to achieve the goal.

The partnership visits were equally useful in demonstrating the support and trainer capacity yet to
be built in the neighboring provinces. Donor support to school clusters (e.g., from UNICEF) was
in evidence and it was effective. However, unlike EQIP it was limited to selected schools and
clusters rather than to all schools in the province.

The promulgation of radical innovations province wide calls for the identification of province and
district staff (e.g., animators) dedicated to providing the technical support needed to realize the
innovations in depth.

The development of competent province-wide technical support to all schools is a challenge yet to



                                                 - 15 -

be adequately addressed across all provinces in Cambodia. Only with comprehensive
province-wide technical support to all schools will the Ministry be able to assure a level of teacher
development sufficient to transform the behavior of the great majority of the teachers from
didactic teacher centered processes to those that are dynamic, activity based and child centered.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
DFID

DFID's modest parallel funding support to EQIP enabled VSO: (i) to place volunteers for the first
time at district level, as part of a larger initiative; and (ii) to contribute to very satisfactory project
achievements, most notably the procedures and competencies to develop participatory,
transparent and effective approaches to resource management for school improvement.
Following a recent visit to Takeo province, a Senior Program Officer in DFID Vietnam reported
that Schools involved in the project clearly show a healthy and active learning atmosphere. The
direct transfer of funds, the decentralization of decision making to schools and the encouragement
of community participation in school management are all really significant institutional changes.
Funds appear to be very well managed and there have clearly been numerous, tangible
improvements in school facilities, atmosphere and effectiveness. The project has had a strong
impact on education quality and this provides rich lessons for Vietnam, as well as for future work
in Cambodia.

VSO

VSO has provided a total of 304 person/months (approximately 25 years) of technical assistance
to the project through teams of experienced volunteers operating within Provincial Teacher
Training Colleges, Provincial and District Offices of Education and with school clusters. VSO's
approach to capacity building is of particular significance in the Cambodian context, where
interventions have been too frequently driven by outsiders and are often of a short-term nature
rather than engaging in a long-term process of changing attitudes and behavior. VSO volunteers
are often the only mechanism to achieve this within reasonable cost constraints. Explicit in this
approach is recognition by VSO of the need to avoid supporting parallel planning systems but
rather support the planning and implementation work of the MOEYS, in order to improve the
quality of basic education. With DFID funding, VSO is continuing to support Kampot, Kandal
and Takeo provinces for a year beyond the end of the project. This exit strategy is increasing the
sustainability of the EQIP project.

The NGO 2003 Consultative Group Statement identified, among others, some of the
experiences piloted in EQIP as best practice examples:

        "The MOEYS and NGOs now have evidence that teachers and school directors are willing
        to take on new ideas, use and develop new resources and provide for interactive learning
        when they receive devolved funding and have regular, well-informed guidance and
        feedback at the local level. Programs such as the MOEYS' Education Quality
        Improvement Project (EQIP) and Child Friendly and Gender Sensitive Schools Project,


                                                    - 16 -

      (supported by UNICEF/KAPE) present good models of efficient and accountable
      management, greater community involvement, gender equity, supportive supervision and
      training and better communication, resulting in quality improvement in school and
      classroom environments and more purposeful teaching and learning."

10. Additional Information




                                            - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



                         EQIP COMPARISONS: STUDENT PROMOTION RATES


                                                         EQIP YEAR ENTRY:

                                          PILOT        YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3+         WHOLE
VARIABLE:                                                                                          SAMPLE
                                         (1998-99)    (1999-00)    (2000-01)        (2001-03)


School Averages
 Promotion Rates Grades 1-5
   1998-99                                 74.5*          71.4*        68.3            65.6*          68.4
   2001-02                                 84.5           85.1         86.6*           83.3*          84.8
    Difference Between 1999-2002          +10.0*        +14.3*       +18.3*          +17.7*          +16.4

 Promotion Rate Grade 1 2001-02            78.0           80.0         79.0            77.5           79.2
 Promotion Rate Grade 4 2001-02            85.0          90.7*         91.8*           86.0*          88.2

Cluster Averages
 Promotion Rates Grades 1-6
   1997-98                                 72.7          72.2*         71.5           67.3*           70.0
   2001-02                                 86.2          86.4*         87.2*          83.3*           85.2
    Difference Between 1998-2002           +13.5        +14.2         +15.7           +16.7          +16.0

 Promotion Rate Grade 1 2001-02            79.2           79.8         80.0           76.8*           78.5
 Promotion Rate Grade 4 2001-02            87.6          90.2*         91.2*          87.1*           88.8
 Promotion Rate Grade 6 2001-02            88.7          90.0*         88.6           84.7*           87.4

Source: EMIS, various years.
Note: All variables as measured in percentages (0-100). The mean for each category average is
interpreted in relation to all remaining schools/clusters. The same is true for the difference-in-difference
estimator, where each category average change between the earlier and later years is compared with the
remaining categories.
*Mean is significantly different from sample average at 0.10 significance (two-tail) level




                                                        - 18 -

                                 EQIP COMPARISONS: DROPOUT RATES

                                                         EQIP YEAR ENTRY:

                                          PILOT        YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3+         WHOLE
VARIABLE:                                                                                          SAMPLE
                                         (1998-99)    (1999-00)    (2000-01)        (2001-03)


School Averages
 Dropout Grades 1-5
   1998-99                                  8.6           8.6           7.8*           9.8*            9.0
   2001-02                                  6.9           7.7           7.5*           9.6*            8.1
    Difference Between 1999-2002           -1.7           -0.9         -0.3            -0.2           -0.9

 Dropout Grade 1 2001-02                    7.6           7.6*         10.5            10.2           8.7
 Dropout Grade 4 2001-02                    9.4           6.1*          5.0*           9.8*           7.8

Cluster Averages
 Dropout Grades 1-6
   1997-98                                 11.2          14.3         10.6*            14.1           13.2
   2001-02                                  7.6           8.4*          8.4*          11.3*            9.6
    Difference Between 1998-2002           -3.6          -5.9*         -2.2            -2.8           -4.2

 Dropout Grade 1 2001-02                    7.0           8.5*         10.3           12.1*           10.3
 Dropout Grade 4 2001-02                    8.0           6.4*          5.9*           9.0*            7.6
 Dropout Grade 6 2001-02                    9.6           9.6*         10.8           14.1*           11.7

Source: EMIS, various years.
Note: All variables as measured in percentages (0-100). The mean for each category average is
interpreted in relation to all remaining schools/clusters. The same is true for the difference-in-difference
estimator, where each category average change between the earlier and later years is compared with the
remaining categories.
*Mean is significantly different from sample average at 0.10 significance (two-tail) level.




                                                        - 19 -

         EQIP COMPARISONS WITHIN PROVINCE: STUDENT PROMOTION AND
                                   DROPOUT RATES IN 2001-02

                                                              EQIP YEAR ENTRY:

                                              PILOT         YEAR 1      YEAR 2         REMAINING
 VARIABLE:                                   (1998-99)     (1999-00)   (2000-01)        SCHOOLS


 School Averages

 Takeo Province:
  Promotion Rates Grades 1-5 2001-02            84.5         85.1          ----            84.7
  Dropout Grades 1-5 2001-02                    6.9           7.7          ----            8.1

 Kampot Province:
  Promotion Rates Grades 1-5 2001-02            ----          ----         86.2*           81.5
  Dropout Grades 1-5 2001-02                    ----          ----         10.3            11.1

 Kandal Province:
  Promotion Rates Grades 1-5 2001-02            ----          ----        87.0*            84.2
  Dropout Grades 1-5 2001-02                    ----          ----         5.8*            8.8

 Source: EMIS, various years.
 Note: All variables as measured in percentages (0-100). The mean for each category average is
 interpreted in relation to all remaining schools/clusters.
*Mean is significantly different from sample average at 0.10 significance (two-tail) level.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                         Component                            US$ million      US$ million
1. Quality Improvement Grants Program: (i) animator              3.72               3.60                96.8
services; (ii) provincial grants management committee; (iii)
grants to school clusters; and (iv) monitoring and
evaluation.
2. Institutional Strengthening: (i) support for the National     0.61               0.48                78.7
Committee on Effective Schooling; (ii) policy studies (incl.
grade 4 exams and decentralization); and (iii) operational
support for provincial and district education offices.
3. Project Management                                            1.22               1.35               110.7

Total Baseline Cost                                              5.55               5.43
                            Total Project Costs                  5.55               5.43
                    Total Financing Required                     5.55               5.43
The fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the project meant that the total
amount of US Dollars disbursed from the credit was approximately US$4.87 instead of the US$5.0
estimated at appraisal.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB               2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                              0.00              0.00         0.00             0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00              0.00         0.08             0.00            0.08
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.08)          (0.00)           (0.08)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00         1.56             0.00            1.56
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (1.56)          (0.00)           (1.56)
4. Grants                             0.00              0.00         3.09             0.00            3.09
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (3.09)          (0.00)           (3.09)
5. Operating Costs                    0.00              0.00         0.27             0.05            0.32
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.27)          (0.00)           (0.27)
6. Provincial and District            0.00              0.00         0.00             0.50            0.50
Operational Costs                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                             0.00              0.00         5.00             0.55            5.55
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)        (5.00)          (0.00)           (5.00)




                                                    - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.53             0.00              0.53
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.34)            (0.00)           (0.34)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.56             0.00              1.56
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.44)            (0.00)           (1.44)
   4. Grants                               0.00               0.00              2.79             0.00              2.79
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.79)            (0.00)           (2.79)
   5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.30             0.00              0.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
   6. Provincial and District              0.00               0.00              0.25             0.00              0.25
   Operational Costs                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00              5.43             0.00              5.43
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.87)            (0.00)           (4.87)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Quality Improvement         3.65         0.07         3.72        3.54         0.07       3.60       97.0     100.0     96.8
Grants Program
2. Institutional               0.21         0.40         0.61        0.07         0.40       0.48       33.3     100.0     78.7
Strengthening
3. Project Management          1.14         0.08         1.22        1.26         0.09       1.35       110.5    112.5    110.7




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/7/1997                 5    Principal Economist (1);              S               S
                                             Education Specialist (2);
                                             Education Economist (1);
                                             Operations Specialists (1)
              3/26/1998                 2    Education Specialists (1);            S               S
                                             Operations Specialists (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/21/1999                 6    Education Specialist (3);             S               S
                                             Principal Economist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Team Assistant (1)
              08/12/1999                3    Education Specialist (1); Lawyer      S               S
                                             (1); Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              02/26/2000                2    Educator/TTL (1); Operations          HS              S
                                             Officer (1)
              10/15/2000                2    Education Specialist (1);             S               S
                                             Operations/Procurement
                                             Specialist (1)
              06/18/2001                5    Sr. Education Specialist (1);         S               S
                                             Education Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Operations/Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Program Assistant
                                             (1)
              05/10/2002                1    Education Specialist (1)              S               S
              09/13/2002                2    Education Specialist (1);             S              HS
                                             Procurement/Financial
                                             Specialists (1)
              02/20/2003                5    Education Specialist/TTL (1);         HS             HS
                                             Operations Assistant (1); Sr.
                                             Education Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Gender Specialist (1)


 ICR
              05/28/2003                4     Education Specialist (2);            HS             HS
                                              Operations Officer (1);
                                              Consultant (1)




                                              - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  NA                         505,900
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       NA
  Supervision                                 NA                         335,800
  ICR                                         NA                          32,000
  Total                                                                  873,700
Note: Number of staffweeks for the period prior to SAP are not available.




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Supervision Documentation
l Project Aide-Memoires
l PIU Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports
l Provincial Quarterly and Annual Reports
l Quarterly and Annual Expenditure Reports
l Inter-provincial Monitoring Exercises
l Monitoring and Evaluation Consultancy Report (April 2001)
l Reports on the Grade 4 Achievement Test (2001, 2002)
l Completion Report of the Financial Management Technical Advisor (February 2002)
l EQIP Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (April 2004)
l Provincial Implementation Completion Reports (March 2004)


Project Impact Evaluations
l Geeves, R., Chin, V., Koy, P., Ly, S., Song, H., and Tran, P. (2002). Evaluation of the Impact of the
   Education Quality Improvement Project. Phnom Penh: World Education/Cambodia.
l Marshall, J. (2004). EQIP School Grants Evaluation: Final Report. Phnom Penh: MOEYS.


Papers and Articles
l Bredenberg, K. (2002). Cluster School Development in Cambodia: Analysis of Process and
   Outcomes. Phnom Penh: UNICEF/SIDA.
l Bredenberg, K. and Ratcliffe, M. (2002). Education Decentralization and Cluster Review Study.
   Phnom Penh: UNICEF/SIDA.
l Geeves, R. (2004). Operational Planning for School Cluster Development. Phnom Penh:
   UNICEF/SIDA.
l NGO Consultative Group Statement (2003). Education. Phnom Penh, 2003.
l Turner, M. (2003). "Whatever Happened to Deconcentration? Recent Initiatives in Cambodia", Public
   Administration and Development, Vol. 22, pp. 353-364.
l Velasco, E. (2004). "Ensuring Gender Equity in Education for All: Is Cambodia on Track?",
   Prospects, Vol. XXXIV, No. 1.
l Wong, S. and Guggenheim, S. (2004). Community-Driven Development and Decentralization in the
   East Asia Region. Washington: World Bank mimeo.




                                                - 28 -

- 29 -

