_,,                        r                                   9 °   Document of -
*   t;  ;3rs                                                 il           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Report,No. 698t-IN
\\~~~~~~~~~~~~C O  -  u                          
%    ,; ic                       Q                          w          .....                           -
13~~~~~~~~0
...  ..  -  [; v e 6 > -- O - t7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        g         "'9
5   9F           '           Doumn  of                - (   ';0 K9
STAFF APPRA1AIS  REPORT                                       Cb
L,                             I,                 99*               )  C
"9~~~~ 9' ''                               :' '.   0kd                                              ,
9 .   .                                                              ' ,;   .   ,,- o  . .,  o   .   V99?
9;                                                           '0  ;R
S .   ';                                                                                        ',        '  2p  
t a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' '                      'j                                     '9 O
Asial        C t    De artment  1  (Lidig)  .Q-       9
Ti!ansport< az Ynergy Operatiodi~   Division    ;                .; d~O
. - ~~~~~~~*                                             9               .j    o         -
0~~~~~~
t ThS doqxna~~refl tk4eodcd dktrbM                 *  ad n"y be used                      thoiEe perkrsu   w of .
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
lb ~     / Ibtns'a   ntowws        be
their                                             W      a,Mk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



'~~ ~~  'D 
lo~~~~
n-    -                                -
'N  >CURRENCYOEQUIVALENS;
-.Z Currency Unit     -      Rupees (Rs)
= Y il;Rs 1,00          -      ,Paisa 100
j   U/g; tS$1+O .00....  =/-'    - Rs 13.00
sR 1.00                   US$0.077L
Rs 1,000,000              US$76,923
MEASURES AND EQUIVALEMtS
1 Cubic;,Meter               *    1.31 cubic yar4'i(cu yd)Y  35.35 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Hectare (ha)             "      10,000 squarb Aters - 2.471 acres (ac)
1 Ton (t)                    -    1 metric ton = 2,200.,lbs
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)        -    3,97British Thermal units,(BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                   1,ooo volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)      =    1,000 volt-ampefes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)             =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)   1 million watts
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =    1,000,000 kilowatt-hours'-
1 Horse Power (HP)               0.75 kilowatts (W)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG     -  Accountant General of Karnataka '      i'
CAS    -  Commercial Accoutfifiig System
CEA   -  Central Electricity Authority
CIF    -  Cost Insurance Freight
cWC   -  Central Water Commission
DOPW   -  Department.of-Forests and Wildlife
GO1 -, -Governwent of.Incdia,
GOK    - Government of Xarnataka
GOKDF -  Government of Karnataka Department of Forests
IBRD.  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding                       '
'IDA    -  International Development Association
KEB    -  Karnataka Electricity Board
KPC   -  Karnataka Power torporation
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    -  Limited International Bidding
LRMC  -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS    - Management Information System
NHPC   - National Hydro Electric Power Corporation
NPP  -   National Porr Plan P..
NTPC   - National Thermal Power Corporation
06M    - Operation and Maintenance                                              ,
PFC    -  Power Finance Corporation                             7
POE   -  Panel of Experts
REB    - Regional Electricity Board
REC    - Rural Electrification Corporation
SCADA  -  System Control and Data Acquisition
SEB    -  State Electricity Board
SOE    - Statement of Expenditures
SREB   - Southern Regibnal Electricity Board
STRS   - Sharavathi Tailrace Scheme
Beneficiari,is financial year ends March 31
-  -S   D                     ,   ...........................................................'I .. 



FOR OrFcIAL US ONLY
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:        Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC)s and
Karnataka Eleptricity Board (KES).
Amount:               US$260 million equivalent.
Terms:                Twenty years, including a five-year grace period,
at the-Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:      Government of. India (GOI) to Government of Karnataka
(GOK): As part of Central assistance to Karnataka
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
0OK to KPC: About US$130 million. Repayment over
twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at
GOK's interest rate applicable at tfi  time for its
lending to KPC, but not less than ll.51 per unnum.
CDK to KEB: About US$130 million. Repayment over
twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at
COK's interett rate applicable at the time for its
lending to KEB, but not less than ll.5S per annum.
-I will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Descriptiont  The Project's main objectives are to: (a) alleviate, the
acute shortage of generating capacity in Karnataka and
the Southern Region by doveloping the 240 MW Sharavathi
.Tailrace (STRS) Hydroelectric Station; (b) provide
adequate transmission capacity to evacuate power from
the STRS; (c) reduce energy losses to economic levels
and improve service quality by strengthening the
State's transmission grid and Bangalore's distribution
system; (d) reduce distribution system capital and
operating costs by introducing new technologies; and
(e) reduce indtallation, operation, and maittenance
costs by providing modern training, tools, and
equipment.  With the exception of those risks
pertaining to the Talakalatle dam, there are no unusual
technical risks associated with the project,
Geological investigations have confirmed good rock
Th dAmumnt bo' naM    disutfibbn nd mube md tin0*stns onb [a f pefoenue|
ofttoflk dufblm Is ontnts my t oftewibbe ticsoud  _hou Wodd Oankauc"w



j ) -i i-
-formation in the area of the hydroelectric scheme.  The
risks related to the Talakalale dam are being minimised
by the use of specialised consultants. KPC and K83
ha*A sufficient staff who ate experienced in
supervising and executing activities similar to those
included in the propose4.Project. Consultants will be
used in all areas in which their in-house expertise is
lac14king.
8etimated Costt 1/
- .  Itim    .                                     Loeal     Foreign     Total
.. . --  ~--(U8$ Million)-
Preparatory Works                            -      6.0        0.1        6.1
Afforestation                                       0.5         -         0.5
Civil Works                                        43.7        8.6       52.3
t'ower Mouse Equipment                             36.3       53.4       89.7
Repair of Talakalale  aum                           7.4        3.0       10.4
Transmission Lines                                 51.9        9.4       61.3
Substations                                        29.2       27.9       57.1
Diltribution Equipment                             31.9       20.5       52.4
InLtitutional Development                           3.3        3.4        6.7
Engineering and Administration                     33.3        1.0       34.3
Total Base Costs                                243.5      127.3      370.8
Physical Contingencies                             20.2        9.6       29.8
Price Contingencies                                43.2       23.3       66.5
Tot'al Project Cost                             306.9      160;2     T467.1
Interest during Construction:                      68.0       35.0      103.0
Total Financing RequirSments                      374.9      195.2      570.1
1/ Including about WS$82 million in taxes and duties.



IBItD                     10159.'O .              .*2 0. 0,,
'                5 -i ii-              '  '
KP,                            39,                          39.6
~37.9192571
F fi c,in,4, PlanS,   -   .                       "    >  -       ^  .0   '
2         °        -         O    ~~~~~~~(US,$ Million)            ?,
8outae i--                       Loca ours notat
IUBD              82            101.0   '      159.0        260.0           *1
Cm     i .             5OK               159.8           36.2  ,.       196.0
- oKPCt                              39.6b ou  ;2                39.6       -
KU    r                            A 5                        74.~5
-            374.9           195.2      "5S70.1
I-    .
istimated Disbursements:                             , 
_USU Milli3n)
la:nk FT           ,FY89   F"Y90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94-  FY95   FY96   FY97
-   Annual         26.4   28.8   4.8.2   52.0   62.4   30.6    7.8    3.0    0.A
C^umulative    26.4   55.2  103.4  155.4  217.8  248.4  256.2  259.23 260.0
late of ieturftZ  About. 12X.           21O' -0                               '
'2       .0 
O~~~~~' O' '(
.9~~~~~~~~ f
,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'21~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
SECOND KARNTAXA POWER PROJECT
STAPP APPRAISAL REPORT                     -
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT              ..................
Coaercial Energy Resources ...,..........................            1
Electricity Supply and Demand -                                      2
Organization of the Powe 8ubsector   ........................        3
Finance and Pricing *...............................                 4
Power Subsector Plauning      .............................. ,
Management and Operations  5..... ..........................         S
OOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector.......................         6
Bank Croup Strategy in the Power Subsector   a...           .8
Bank Group Participation  o.....................*...........        10
II.  THE BENEFICIARIES                                                   11
Introduion                                                          1
ARANATAKE POWER CORPORATION .......................  .      .       11
Background                                                          11
Organization **e**,*..                                 ......... 0* o  .. .....e*  12
P ersonnel and Staffing ........ ... * *  ...*...*.. .*o.....  l    i00*
Planning *e-Oooooooo,0e9000006e;00-00..- ..-....12
Project Implementation .,                                           13
Operation and Maintenance                                           13
Training * ...........................0.........    13
KAINATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD o........................ ....*  0      14
,'Background   ** ***** * o. ............*...... . . . . .. .......  14
Organization  oo*o*oo.oo.o0o0000********                            14
Personnel and Staffing                      .*000o00000**o*0*       15
Planning                                                            15
Operation and Maintenance                .....................      16
Load Dispatch               .     ...........      .......    .. 16
Materials Management            .....................               17
Training 00000 0  .**..*...           .                             17
This report which is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India
in May/June 1987, was prepared by Messrs. A. Guletone (Power Engineer),
W. Jones (Senior Economist), R. Sharma (Financial Analyst), COK. Teng
(Financial Analyst), and A. Posada (Consulting Engineer).



-I
Pa Le no
III. THE PROJECT   ..............,                                     17 `
Project Setting ..... ............. e.g......                     17
Project Objectives *co.... oece.e- *c..e.e...ecgcoe ogce     19
Project Description  . ...............                            19
Project Engineering 20.......0
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule                  21
Project Costs      2..........                                    22
Project Financing                  ........                       25
Procurement                                                       26
Disbursements                                                     27
-Project Operation and Maintenance                                 28
Project Monitorini ...                                            28
Project Ri$ks    .........o                                       29
Water Rights ...                                                  29
Rese$tlement egece ...ge....eggggoc*c ecceo .* eg... ,* *.g.      29
Forestry and Environmental Aspects  .......e...ge.. .             29
IV. FINANCE   ..                                                      31
KARPATAKA PCtOW  CORPORATION    ...........            .oe..      31
Background  .    ........g                                        31
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization   ..g.... ...e      32
Audit Arrangements ce..c.....                                     32
Fixed Asset Accounting c3......e.............. e  eec...    33
Insurance a ......                  ,      ,, ,...... eec....    33
Accounts Receivable ...,                                          33
Tariffse                                                          33
Past Financial Performance cccee..egggegg*og.  ecoe.ce.o.c        34
Present Financial Position oee.egeeee.geee*egceoe.eoge7*ioooo    36
Financial Recovery Program     ... .cecoeog -c                    37
Forecast Investment and Financing Plans  ........ .....o          37
Income Taxes cg                                                  39
Forecast Financial Pev£ormance             '                     39
Financial Reporting and Monitoring                               40
KABNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD geggo.g.........c.cc.            ............ ;41
Background                            -,                         41
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization ................    41
Audit Arrangements   ............... g                           42
Fixed Asset Accounting ....c.. ococegoc. oc.....cc.egg......    43
Insurance                          ......     e       .          44
Metering and Billing ..occc.geo.cceoco.gccoc.ggeceeoeeoeoe       44
Accounts Recivable ceeee..geeeceeggegg..e.c.c...c......c....e.  44
Accounts Payable .co..e.........*0    ....................... c   45
Tariffs .........c....c..ccocccgecCcceecec.cgceegegc.eecccoe     46
Past Piinancial Performance gocccocecogoggoo................. gg    46
Present Financial Position   o.gcccecoeoceccgeececcececoeeee     48
Financial Recovery Program  ..e....  eec     ....    ......      49
Forecast Investment and Financing 'Plans .4.....9............    49



-               \   -iii-
Page No.
Income Taxes   .........s6.....e.....e..... ..e*,*e                 50
Forecast Financial Performance .............................        51
Financial Reporting and Monitoring                                  52
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                           53
Least Cost Analysis *eeeqee.oe..*e..........eOee...e*.*..eeeeee      53
Internal Economic Rate of Return ..o...........................      53
Justification for Bank Involvement ............................      54
VI.  AGREENTS AND RECOMMENDATION SS.....**..                             55
Agreementsion ... . *         ....... * ..... *............,.........     56
Recoammedation                           .....  '56
1.1  Electricity Generation, Sale and Pattern of Hoeogy Consumption - All India
1.2  Forecast of Regional Power Demand, 1987/18 - 1996/97
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (March 31, 1988)
2.1 Organization Chart of RC
2.2 Organization Chart of US
3.1 Detailed Project Description
3.2  Construction Schedules If KED and KPC Project Components
3.3 Project Cost Estimates
3.4  Procurement Timetable
3.5 Schedule of Dank Disbursements
4.1  Method for Computation of Rate of Return on Assets
4.2 KPC Financial Projections
4.3 KEB Financial Projections
5.1  Internal Economic Rate of Return
6.1 Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
IBRD Nos. 20892 and 20893



INDIA
9EC0U  KARtNATAKAPOE  PROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOT
I   B ECTORAL CONTEX
Commercial Energy Resources
1.01    India's principal cormmercial energy sources consist of coalp,oil,
gas, hy4ro and nuclear energy.  Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the
most abundant. Reserves of thermal coal hive been estimated at slighttj more
than 100 billion tons, of which 25 billion are proven. Although reserves are
ample, most of the coal produced is of poor and deteriorating quality. The
high ash content,, up to 502j, increases the capital and operating costs of
power st:ati6rs and has exacerbated problems of coal transpoit.  cOI'(,
emphasis on concentrated development of pithead stations helps to alleviate
transport problems but will noat reduce the other costs associated with poor,
coal quality. -Moreover, pithead&,development will be constraiWied by pollution
problems and-,the avai1ibility of water for coal washing and condenser
cooling.                                . 
1.02~ GOI appointed the Fasal Commit,tee to examine the problems of coal
,supply to thermal power stations. This committee, which reported in October
1983, made several recommnendations affecting all aspects of supply,, from coal
preparation to raiwape =tions (para 1.19)~ Although GOI has' accqpted
most~ ~  ~ of thes  reome'   -     
most  f thee reomue~~n~  t, has been slow to implmnttem    owever,
00I has agreed, under tbeC~\Mining and Coal Quality'Improveomet Project
(Loan  2796-IN), to provid:e "k  Bank with a timetable for implementing the
Fasal Committee recommendati(' a by March 31, 1988.
1.03    Proven and probable petroleum reserves consist of approximately
510 Million tons of oil and 390 million too of natural gas.  Despite recent
increasses in domestic production, India still imports aWgut one-third of its
oil -requirements, which in FY84 cost'the equivalent of 402 of its merchandise
exporti'. With domestic-bil production likely to start declining towards the
,end of the decade, exploration for new hydrocarbon resources is of the utumst
importance to India; in this context, the Government has recently invited
the international oil industry into the higher~ rilik, 'offshore areas to
compleomet the exploration'being undertaken by Inidia's two national oij,
companies. At the same time,, it-has imolemented measures, including economic'
pricing,--to restrain -the rapidly growing demand for oil products,
particularly middle distillates. Nevertheless, the oil supply-demand deficit
is likely to increase agaibi over the medium term unless significant-new
hydrocarbon resources are brought onstream quickly. In the meantime, some of
the deficit can be reduced by substituting natural gas for liquid, petroleu'm
produicts. In the pastg 001 has limited natural gas to premium markets such



as petrochemicali and fertilizer; however, delays in the construction of gas
infrastructure have resulted in substantial volumes of gas being flared. The
Bank has encouraged GOO to develop the necessary infrastructure and to allow
other economic uses of gas, including power generation.  In response, GOI has
begun to invest in pipelines and has recently revised its policy on the use
of gas for power generation (paras 1.19 and 1.20).
1.04    India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 100,000 Mv.
At present only 14,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 MW are under
construction, and a further 23,000 MW are being studied for future
development. The prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-cost
power development plans has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate hydro
development; however, progress has been slow due to the lack of financial
resources in states with the greatest hydro potential, the time required to
resolve water rights and environmental issues, and the li"Ated technical
resources available for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of
hydro schemes. Attempts to address these 'ssues through increased central
sector involvement so far have met with limited success (para 1.10).
1.05    The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - lO,OOO MW), and thorium reserves are enough -to support a large fast
breeder program. India currently has 1,095 MW of nuclear power generating
capacity.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.06    In PY86, gross power generation in the utilities amounted to
approximately 188,000 CWh from an installed capacity of just over 50,000 MS.
Almost 601 of generation came from coal, 34Z from hydro, and the rest from
oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Electricity losses have risen slowly
but steadily over the last few years and now exceed 261 of gross 3eneration.
Station-use, now about 101 of gross generation, has increased because of the
deteriorating quality of coal, and system losses hate increased because of
the large expansion in very low load density rural-ilectrification together
with otherwise inadequate investment in transmission and distribution
facilities. The Bank has stressed the importance of balanced investment to
reduce system losses and improve service quality and will continue to support
transmission and distribution investments designed to achieve these
objectives.
1.07    Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total co"mercial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 301 of the latter. Even though the power subsector
receives 20-25X of total public investment, electricity supply has not kept
pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the country.
Total consumption has grown at an average annual rate of 8Z, although the
increassng severity-of power shortages shows that potential demand has grown
more rapidly. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast demand
growth in the range of 9-10X per year between 1987/88 and 1996/97



-3-
(Annex 1.2). However, actual growth will continue to be constrained by
supplyt The principal sectoral shares of electricity consumption are:
industrial, 571; agricultural, 181; and domestic, 131. Agriculture's share
has grown steadily due to increased electrical irrigation pumping made
possible by rural electrification and encouraged by heavy subsidies.
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.08    The Central and State Governments shate the responsibility for
supplying electricity. The Central Government controls the CIA, the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Ilectric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).  The
States control the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and the Regional
Electricity Boards (REBs). CEA is part of the Department of Power within the
Ministry of Energy. NTPC, NHPC and REC are public corporations reporting to
the Department of Power. SEBes were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) -
Act, 1948 (the Act), to promote the development of the power subsector and to
regulate private licensees such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although
SEBs are pupposed to be autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations,
in-practice they are under the control of State Governments in such matters
as capital investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales, and personnel
policies. As a fir.t step towards national integration, the SEBes have been
grouped inLto five regional systems, each coordinated by an REB. The REB's
coordination responsibilities include overhaul and maintenance programs,
generation schedules, interstate power transfer' and concomitant.tariffs.
1.09    CIA was created in 1950 to develop a national power policy and to
coordinate the various agencies involved in supplying electricity.  It is
formally responsible for vetting investment proposals, providing consulting
support to BEBs, assisting in the integration of supply systems, training of
personnel, and research and devielopment. However, in its execution of these
responsibilitiest CEA has been severely limited by shortages of skilled staff
and other resources. Without any direct responsibility for providing
financet it has not been able to assume a very positive role in the
development of the subsector. In view of this, OOI formed the Power Finance
Corporation (PFC) in April 1986 to complement CEA in fostering development of
the subsector (para 1.20).
1.10    NTPC and NHPC were formed in 1975 to construct and operate large
power stations and-associated transmission facilities. They -sell bulk power
to the SEBs for distribution. NTPC has had marked success since the
covuissioning of its first unit in 1982. At present, it contributes around
101 of the country's installed cepacity and is growing rapidly. In contrast,
UHPC is still struggling to establish aixole for itself; the states control
water rights and are reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center. This
has prompted GOI to explore joint ventures with the states to develop hydro
schemes. RBC was established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrification and
provide financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. Currently, REC
finaces more than 701 of the total investment in rural electrification. At



-4-
present there is no organisation responsible for developing a national
transmission grid, although GOI is contemplating the formation of such a body
(para 1.21).
iace nd Pricis
1.11    Although four SEBs made a profit in FY84, the SEBs as a whole
incurred a combined loss in that year of approximately Rs 11,230 million
(US$935 million) exclusive of subsidies. This corresponds to a return of
2.31 on historically valued net fixed assets before interest and -8.1% after
interest. Internal cash generation, which was equivalent to only about 2.71
of capital expenditure in FY84, has been correspondingly poor. Almost all
SEB capital expenditure is financed by dett - primarily loans from state
governments.  Recognizing the unsatisfactory state of SEB finances, GOI has
amended the Act in April 1985 to require each SEB to earn an annual return of
at least 3% on its historically valued net fixed assets after meeting
operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest (GOI does-not accept the
principle of revaluation of assets). The Bank supports this initiative by
OI and has changed the form of its financial covenant to reflect this.
Although the Bank's conventional method of calculation makes the return
specified in the Act, corresponding in some cases to 4 to 6% on revalued
assets, appears modest, this return nevertheless represents a very -
substantial improvement on past performance. Many SEBs, particularly those
of the poorer states, are experiencing considerable diffi-cultr .n' achieving
this level of performance.
1.12    Although MTPC's tariffs are approximately equal to its long-run
marginal costs (LRMC), there are deficiencies in its tariff structure.  GOI
has agreed to commission, in close cooperatIon with the Bank, a study to
address these deficiencies.  A recent analysis of SEB tariffs suggests that
they are now 60-702 of LRMC, which represents a significant improvement over
their 502 level in 1981. The average ratio will continue to improve as rates
are increased to achieve the stipulated rate of return.  However, the
structure of tariffs remains unsatisfactory. -Tariffs frequently are
excessively complex, and very little has been done through tariffs either to
achieve load management or, to selectively tap consumers' willingpess to pay,
which in many cases substantially exceeds existing tariff levels. Although
they have espoused energy prices "which reflect true costs" in both their
Sixth and Seventh Plans, 001 and the states continue to resist economic
pricing of power as this conflicts with social and agricultural objectives.
1.13    In lending to individual SUB's, the Bank will continue to address
state-specifi.  programs to improve resource mobilization, for example, by
developing fin ncial programs capable at least of achieving the rate of
return specified in the Act. Where higher returns are both feasible and
desirable the Bank will press state governments to use their discretion under
the Act to require a higher rate of return. As far as tariff structure is
concerned, the Bank will continue to require SEBs to carry out tariff studies
wherever tariff structures appear to be badly distorted, in order to impress



-5-
on the relevant authorities the true costs of cross-subsidization. However,
resistance to economic pricing is likely to inhibit progress in pricing
reform (para 1.22).
Power Subsector Planning
1.14    The Bank has consistently encouraged GO  to pursue integrated
planning and coordinated operation of the country's electricity supply
systems. In response, GOI has prepared a set of regional least cost
development plans, published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983.
Although the NPP represents a good first step towards integrated planning,
it needs further refinement and regular updating. In addition, such a plan
can only lead to effective improvements if complemented by measures to bring
about coordinated system operation. At present only the Northern Region is
approaching this. GOI is encouraging states to reach the necessary
agreements on operating parameters, but progress is likely tt, be slow as long
as severe power shortages exist. Even if coordinated intra-regional
operation is achieved, inter-regional tranafers will be very difficult
without the use of direct current facilities to overcome problems of
frequency control. The first such facility, a link between Northern and
Western Regions, is a component of the Central Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2283-IN). A second direct current link has been included in the Rihand
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2535-IN). To facilitate further integration
OI has agreed, under the latter project, to undertake a study of the
long-term development of a national transmission system and to examine
related ir-stitutional and commercial issues.
1415    Substantiail disparities exist between the long-term NPP, national
five-year plans, short-term budgets, and actual performance.  Due to a lack
of resources, fewer projects have been included in the five-year plans than
in the NPP and, because adequate allowance was not made for escalation and
delays in project implementationt still fewer have been executed. The
resulting power deficit has undermined rational planning by necessitatlng-
raMid expansion of supply rather than long-term least-cost development. For
example, shorter gestation thermal plants have be4n favored at the expense of
lower cost hydro plants. Furthermore, the power deficit has prompted
overinvestment in captive plant, a second-best measure leading to excessive
use of high value petroleum products for power generation. In addition to
supporting 001's efforts to increase the supply of power, the Bank will
continue to stress to GOI the role of pricing and load management in
eliminating the deO.,cit, and the importance of integrating planning and
pricing.
Management and Operations
1.16    In contrast to the good performance of NTPC, the SEBs' management and
operational capabilities have not kept pace with the expansion of supply. In
general, SEBs have adequately qualified engineering staff but lack
experienced personnel in financial planning and control. The significant pay



-6-
differential between the public and private sectors makes it difficult to
recruit competent staff. Management practiCeb are generally outmoded and
inadequate. Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts
and ezpenditures, and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Consequently, the Bank has encouraged GOI to develop a
new uniform accounting system for SEBs. After initial delays, implementation
is now proceeding. The Bank will continue to support institutional
development programs through lending to individual SEBs.
1.17    The operations of many SEBs are hampered by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment.  Factors that have contributed to the poor state
of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (in pixt due to capacity
shortages), deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality
of coal.  In gener41, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Distribution systems have
suffered from inadequate maintenance, overloading owing to inadequate
investment, and deficiencies in the manufacture of equipment.
Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution networks,
appears to be a very cost-affective way to improve efficiency and augment
-system capacity.  COX recently initiated a rehabilitation program for thermal
plant but is less able to effect improvements in distribution. Whenever
appropriate, the Bank will continue to include rehabilitation components
under its loans.
suI's Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.18    The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of GOI's
energy and power policies.  Although the formalization of power policy, in
particular. is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which
responsibility for power is shared between central and state governments
(para 1.08), the Seventh Plan reflects a broad consensus of the objectives
of energy and power policies,i The principal objectives of GOI's energy
policy are to: (a) develop energy supplies economically, at a rate
commensurate with growth in the economy and social needs; (b) substitute
indigenous energy resources for imported petroleum wherever this is
economically feasible; and (c) encourage the rational and efficient use of
energy resources. Power policy is governed by essentially the same
objectives, although GOI's short-term strategy focuses on alleviating the
acute power shortages suffered nationwide. Over the longer term, achieving
least-cost development assumes greater importance. In addition to the
initial steps of its long-term strategy, GOI's short-term strategy provides
for a number of specific measures to address power shortages, including:
(a) rehabilitating thermal plant -  a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being implemented (para 1.17);
(b) accelerating the implementation of ongoing projects - a recent
reorganization of Government created a new ministry specifically to
monitor and improve the implementation of public sector projects;



-7-
(c) adopting a more liberal attitude towards captive generation;-
(d) permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.03); and
(a) improving th  'ualit  and reliability of coal supplies by
implementing the majority of the Fazal Committee's recommendations
(para 1.02).
1.19    GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizational, institutional and financial 'issues.  The
amount ef investment available-to the power subsector is limited.  The
Seventh Plan allocation is about half the sum sought by the Working Group on
Power, a sum which was itself inadequate to elimina'te power shortages.
L- ong-term investment priorities ares
(a) accelerated hydro development (para 1.04);
(b) an increased proportion of investment in transmission and
distribution (para 1.06);
:c' the formation of a national grid (pira L1JO);
5d) coal beneficiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
_I°-para 1.01);
(e) diversificati#s of the modes for transporting coal used in power
generation, such as the introduction of coastal shipping or slurry
pipelines;
(f) diversification.of the fuels used for power generations GOI now
recognizes that gas-fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to. play in system development (para 1.03); and
(g) steady growth in the. developumet of nuclear power (para 1.05).
1.20    Long-term orgatiizational/institutional. and financial issues are more
controversial and  OI still needs clearly defined strategies in these areas.
0G1 recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many of the SEBs
but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which it can bring about
improvement. QOI is making use of the following measures:
(a) increasing the role of efficient (central sector) institutions,
particularly NTPC Cpara 1.10);



-8-
(b) implementing a uniform system of commercial accounting for all SUBs
(para 1.16);
(c) requiring, through recent amendment of the Act, that SUBs earn a rate
of return of not less than 3X after all expenses and interest (par.
1.11), a significantly more stringent financial requirement than
hithertQg and
(d) giving more favorable treotment to private sector proposals for power
generation, particularly When such developments can be demonstrated
to be mobilizing resources that would not otherwise be available to
the public sector.
In addition, as noted, GOT has formed the PPC as a financial intermediary to
serve the subsector (para 1.09). It is expected t)'at funds lent by the PFC
would be attractive to SUBs because, at least in part, they would be
additional to agreed plan outlays. However, loans would be subject to
conditionality designed to improve the efficiency and financial strength of
beneficiaries.                                               -
1.21    GOI recognizes that the development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
thi subsector. Therefore, GOI is contemplating the Vormation of a separate
body with responsibility for the grid (para 1.10). Nevertheless, many
coamercial and institutional problems remain. As yet, GOI has no strategy
for solving them, although, under the Rihand Power Transmission Project, it
has acknowledged that these problems of grid development need to be addressed
(para 1.14).
Bank Group Strategy in th! Power Subsector
1.22    The Bank supports the elements of 0 's strategy identified above but
believes that, while these elements are desirable in themselves, they do not
address all of the serious deficiencies in the subsector. Additional efforts
are needed particularly to address problems in the areas of planning,
pricing/load managementt institutional development, and finance. The
prevalent nature of these problems suggests that a sector-wide approach
should be sought.  However, the comparative autonomy of the states/SUBs from
the Center makes it difficult to implement such an approach. Except for the
introduction of unifolrm comercial accounting in SUB., few improvements at
the state level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by
C&A or REC, primarily because these institutions lack control over SUBs.
Consequently, the BaAk is changing the mix of its lending away from umbrella
projects towards a more direct involvement with individual SBes, where
state-specific programs can be designed to address areas of deficiency.
Initial experience with individual SUBs suggests that the prospects for
improvement are encouraging. Pricing and finance are the most problemtic



-9-
areas (para 1.11) and the Bank has indicated that it will only work with
those snBs that are prepared to improve their financial performance.
1.23    In parallel with lending to individual SEBs, the Bank proposes
continued support for expansion of the central sector, beceise:
(a) increased reliance of the states on central sector gen%uation appears to
be the best way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the
national interest; and (b) a higher nroportion of total generation provided
at economic tariffs by the central sector will help to improve tariff levels
for final consumers. The difficulties that GOI has experienced in bringing
hydro projects into the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the
main vehicle for the Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to
date is impressive. However, it is still far from being a mature institution
and, owing to its rapid-development, it will continue to face problems in
which it could benefit from Bank support. In the wider context, the Bank
believes that an institutional review of the power subsector is needed and
should include a review of the organization and functions of CEA. The Bank
also will pursue with GOI the possibility of Bank-financed technical
assistance to improve CEA's capabilities.
1.24    In gddition to identifying new aspects of GOI's strategy, it is
appropriate that the Bank also focus on existing aspects of the strategy
where it can do the most to catalyze progress. In this respect, the Bank has
identified the following:
(a) integration of power supply including the formation of the national
grid -- the Bank will continue to support projects such as the
Central and Rihand Power Transmission Projects; the latter will allow
the Bank to be actively involved in studies of long-term transmission
development (para 1.14);
(b) accelerated hydro development -  by broadening lending operations to
encompass individual SEBs, the Bank is able to support hydro projects
and, where Bank funds are a crucial supplement to plan outlays, it is
able to bring about developments that might not otherwise take place;
(c) elements of strategy that involve concerted action by organizations,
both inside and outside the power subsector -  the Bank can  \
coordinate its own lending operations within the different subsectors
in order to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority examples
concern improvements in coal quality and transportation, and the use
of natural gas for power generation; and          -
(d) support of private sector power generation.



-10-
Bank Croup Participation
1.25    The Bank has made 25 loans (US$4.384 billion) and 17 IDA Credits
(US$2.424 billion) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3).  Twenty-one
projects have been completed: 15 for generation, 4 for transmission, and 2
for rural electrification. Projects currently under implementation includet
11 for generation, 2 of which are hydro, 2 for transmission, 1 for rural
electrification, and the Kerala, Karnataka and National Capital Phase I
Projects which include a mix of generation, transmission and distribution.
With respect to NTPC projects, the first-phase projects at Singrauli, Korba,
and Ramagundam were commissioned on or ahead of schedule and the plants have
been operating at high efficiency. The second-phase extensions at these
sites, the Farakka, the Rihand Power Transmission, and the Combined Cycle
Projectst are proceeding satisfactorily. The Third Rural Electrification
Project, which has suffered significant procurement problems, is about three
years behind schedule.
1.26    Through its participation in the sector in recent years, the Bank
has contributed to the creation and development of NTPC which, with 2,500 MW
commissioned in the last five years and around 3,000 NW under construction,
is becoming a large and efficient generating company by international
standards. The Bank also has assisted one of the few private utilities in
the country, the Tata Electric Companies, in supporting the construction of
the first 500-MW thermal unit in India at Trombay. Similarly, the Bank
promoted -- through two transmission projects, the Central and Rihand Power
Transmission Projects - the introduction of high voltage, direct current
technology. In addition to contributing in a substantive way to the supply
of power, the projects financed by the Bank also have promoted the
development in India of a large public and private manufacturing sector for
the construction of the required equipment (e.g. steam generators,
turbo-generators, auxiliary and transmission equipment). While these
industries still lack the quality and efficiency of their international
counterparts, the competition resulting from international competitive
bidding will encourage further improvements in the quality and technology
employed in the equipment they produce.
1.27    A performance audit conduczed in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in
helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet
their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in
these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted
the difficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a
close working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary SEBs. -Another
performance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and Second Rural
Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), concluded that India's
rural electrification program, of which the projects were a part, has helped
the country to achieve food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and
transform the rural economy. In common with the previous audit, this one



-11-
also emphasized that the Bank should devote resources to deal with the 8BBs
individually.
II. THE BENEFICIARISS
Introduction
2.01    Two entities are responsible for electricity operations in the State
of Karnatakat the Karnataka Powar Corporation (KPC) and the Karnataka
Electricity Board (KEB). Both are wholly owned by the Government of
Karnataka (GOK) and report to the State's Ministry of Power. KPC is
responsible for generation and KEB is responsible for transmission and
distribution. The Ministry of Power is responsible for overall policy. To
ensure coordination between the two entities in policy implementation, KEB's
Chairman is a director of KPC, and KPC's Nanaging Director is a member of
KED's Board of Management.
KCARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
Background
2.02    The Karnataka Power Corporation was incorporated in 1971 as a limited
company under the Companies Act.l/ KPC, being the successor to COK's Hydro
Electric Construction Departmenet received the assets-;under construction of
the Sharavathi Hydroelectric Project. Initially the Corporation was
conceived as a construction company, but its activities have expanded into
the operation and maintenance of hydro stations, as well as into the
construction, operation and maintenance of thermal stations.  The Corporation
curreptly owns and operates six power stations, with a total generating
capacity of 2,309 MS, of which 420 MS is thermal. KPC's investment program
from 1988/89 to 1996/97 (Annex 4.2) comprises 2,522 MW of hydroelectric
capacity and 840 MV of thermal capacity.  The Companies Act stipulates, inter
aliat that the affairs of the Corporation be governed by a Board of
Directors.  The Chief Minist2r of Karnataka is the Chairman of Board with
the Minister of Power as the Vice-Chairman. Thereforep although KPC is not a
statutory bodyt 00K exerts considerable influence on the Corporation's
affairs, particularly in the areas of tariffs, planning, and capital
expenditure.
1/  Originally known as Mysore Power Corpooation, it was renamed in 1974
following the change in the State'i name from Mysore to Karnataka.
,;



-12-
Organization
2.03   KPC's organization chart is presented in Annex 2.1.  Its Board of
Directors currently consists of 17 directorst including the Chairman and
Vice-Chairman. Day-to-day management is the responsibility of the Managing
Director, usually a senior officer from the Indian Administrative Service,
who serves full-time. He is supported by two other full-time directors, the
Finance Director and the Technical Director. Two of GOK's secretaries are
part-time Directors, as is KEB's Chairman. The remaining nine part-time
directors are technical experts: five are members of the Electrical Committee
and four are members of the Civil Committee. The Committecs, which together
form the Joint Committee, advise the Managing Director and other members of
the Board on technical matters relating to their respective disciplines.
Personnel and Staffing
2.04    Personnel management is the responsibility of the Company Secretary
who reports to the Managing Director. KPC's personnel at the time of
formation consisted of staff deputed from KEB and COK's Public Works
Department in addition to the erstwhile Hydro Electric Construction
Department's staff. KPC's staffing as of October 31, 1987, is given in
Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: KPC's Staffing
No. of Personnel            X
Executives                             187                  2
Supervisors                          1,743                 22
workmen                              6,055                 76
7,985                100
Of the 7,985 persons employed by KPC, 4,975 (621) were engaged in
construction activities, 1,998 (251) in operation and maintenance, and 1,012
(132) in other activities. Most of the deputed staff have stayed on a
permanent basis. Further recruitment, dictated by growth in hydropower
activities, was predominantly at junior levels. In contrast, KPC's recent
expansion into thermal generation has necessitated recruitment of senior
staff. This has been complemented by the extensive use of consultants and
re-training of staff.
Planning
2.05    KPC's planning activities are of three main types: generation
expansion planning to meet the demand that is forecast jointly by CMA and
KES; project planning from prefeasibility through commissioning and
operation and maintenance planning for the existing generating plants. In
view of the sub&tautial increase in its activities, and the resulting



-13-
complexities in planning, the Corporation is introducing computevs to aid in
some of its planning activities. Specificatins have been prepared for the
necessary hardware, software, and technical assistance which are financed
under the first Karnataka Power Project.
Project Implementation
2.06    KPC has satisfactory project implementation capabilities,
particularly for hydroelectric projects. The Corporation designs its
hydroelectric projects in-house and has recently acquired the same
capabilities for thermal power. plants with the help of Tata Consulting
Engineers. KPC uses its own personnel to erect and commission
electra-mechanical equipment but uses contractors for major civil works. The
Corporation is guided in the implementation of its hydroelectric projects by
a Panel of Experts (POE) which currently includes experts in dam design,.,dam
safety geology, foundation engineering, and hydroelectric plant operation.
Opiration and Maintenance
2.07    KPC has competent personnel to operate and maintain its hydro
stations and its methods and procedures for operation and maintenance of
individual hydro schemes are generally satisfactory.  The Corporation,
however, lacks experience in the modern methods available for optimizing the
operation of tomplex interdependent hydro schemes such as there will be in
the Kalinadi basin. Therefore, in order to optimize plant operation in the
Ralinadi Hydro Power Complex, a computerized Generation Management System
is being financed under the first Karnataka Power Project. KPC has prepared
a shortlist of consulting firms to specify the system and is finalizing the
terms of reference. As yet, KPC also lacks sufficient experience in
operation and maintenance of thermal plants since Raichur Thermal Power
Station is its first thermal power station.   Accordingly, the Corporation
has hired Tata Consulting Engineers to assist in the operation of the Raichur
units and to train KPC personnel in operation and maintenance of thermal
plant.
Training
2.08    KPC has established extensive in-house training for hydroelectric
plant operations and maintenance but also makes regular use of external
training both in India and abroad. Training in thermal plant operation and
maintenance is entirely external and has included extensive use of oOI's
Power Engineers Training Institute, deputation to other SEBes operating
thermal plants and to manufacturer's facilities, and use of the 500 MM
simulator owned by the Tata Electric Companies.  In addition, Tata Power
Projects' Chief Training Officer is on a two-year deputation to KPC. In
contrast with technical training, the training of finance staff is
inadequate, particularly, in relation to financial reporting, monitoring, and
planning. To support KPC's efforts to keep abreast of technical developments
and to rectify the deficiencies in financial training, the Bank is financing



-14-
"an appropriate training program as a component of the first Karnataka Power
Project. XPC has prepared the training program and wilt shortly invite
proposals from institutions to implement it.
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD
Background
2.09    The Karnataka llectricity Board was formed in 1957 in accordance with
the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. After KPC was formed
in 1971, KEB's main function has been to transmit and distribute electricity
generated either by KPC or imported from other States and centrally-opArated
power stations. However, the Board also owns and operates four small hydro
electric generating stations with a total capacity of 2% MW.  KEB's  rYstem
comprises about 17,000 km of transmission lines and aliout 279,000 km of
distribution lines. As of August 31, 1987, KEB served about 4.1 million
connections comprising: 2.4 million domestitc; 0.4 million commercial;
0.2 million industrial; 0.5 million public lighting; and 0.6 million
agricultural. Legally, KEB is an autonomous entity reporting to QOK's
Ministry of Power. However, although KEB enjoys considerable independence in
managing its day-to-day affairsp GOK strongly influences decisions relating
to pricing, planning, capital expenditure, and staffing.
Organization
2.10    KU'1s Board of Management is reiponsible for establishing internal
policies. The Board of Management consists of seven official memberst three
of whom - the Chairman, Member (Finance), and ember (Technical) serve
full time. The four part-time members comprise three secretaries to GOX and
the Managing Director of KPC. Additionally,'the leader of KEB's largest
labour union is an unofficial member. Seven chief engineers, the Chief-
Vigilance Officer, the Director of Research, and the Financial Adviser/Chief
Accounts Officer are responsible for implementing the Board policies.  Four
of the chief engineers are zonal chief engineers in charge of operation,
maintenance and capital works (except rural electrification) in the four
zones into which the State is divided.-h!e Chief Engineer (Rural
Electrification) is responsible for the preparation and implementation of
rural electrification schemes throughout the State. The remaining two chief
engineers are the Chief Engineer Electricity (General) And the Chief Engineer
Materials Management,*
2.11    In 1984, KE was reorganized to: (a)-facilitate decentralized
decision making; (b) improve control of critical areas of opr2oation, e.g.
materials management; and (c) broaden the responsibilities of the zonal chief
engineers to include capital works (prior to reorganization, their
responsibilities were limited to operation and maintenance). The Btard's
revised organization chait is presented in Annex 2.2. Although the benefits
of the reorganization are yet to be fully realize4p some progress can be
 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



-15-
seen, particularly in materials management. However, one impediment to
realizing the full benefits of reorganization and the recently introduced
commercial accounting system is the absence of a modern management
information system (MIS). An M18, tailored to the new organizational
structure, is needed to establish appropriate reporting arrangements and
streamline information flows within the Board. COK agreed, during
negotiations of the first Karnataka Power Project, to cause KEB to engage
consultants, by June 30, 1988, to develop and implement a modern Management
Information System for the Board, in accordance with terms of reference and
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. KEB is preparing the terms of
reference for this study.
Personr,.il and Staffing
2.12    KEB's staffing as of September 30, 1987, distributed according to
skills, is presented in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2:  KEB 8taffing
NUN- of Employees        %              -
Engineers and Professionals           2,503                6
Technicians                           8,250               19
Clerical and Technical Support       33 480               75
Total                        44,233              100
Of the 44,233 persons employed by the Board, about 36,000 are regular
employees and the remainder are contracted for particular construction works.
In addition,- KEU employs about 1,066 casual labourers for construction works.
eMB's consumer to employee ratio in September 1987 stood at 93:1, which is at
improvement over 79:1 in March 1985. This improvement is primarilyy
attributable to the general hiring freeze imposed by OK in 1981. Since
1981, the Board's consumer base has increased at an average rate of 300,000
per year. Although the biring f-reeze hAs been fairly strict, the policy is
flexible enough to enable KEB to hire key personnel where necessary,
particularly in areas of finance, accounting and materials management.
Planing
2.13    The Chief Engineer Electricity (General) is responsible for 128's
planning. The Planning Cell is headed by a superintending engineer. KEB's
planning activities have primarily focussed on high voltage transmission
lines and substations. While transmission planning has been generally
satisfactory KEU would benefit from periodic specialist-advice in the areas
of protection and reactive compensation. The first Karnataka Power Project
includes consulting services for this purpose. K(B's distribution planning,
currently carried out manually, would benefit greatly from the introduction
of computerized planning techniques.  This will be achieved under the first----
. .  . . . .  *        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-16-
Karnataka Power Project through training provided by consultants engaged to
prepare a Distribution Master Plan for Bangalore and to provide supervisory.
assistance fiSr the preparation of similar plans for other cities in
Karnataka.  KID has signed a contract with British Electricity International"
Ltd. of the United Kingdom to perform the Distribution Planning Study.
Operation and Maintenance
2.14    Eight O01 circles (two per zone) each'headed by a superintending
engineer are responsible for operation and maintenance. KEB's operation and
corrective maintenance of its transmission system are generally satisfactory.
It also has adequate procedures for preventive maintenance of its
transmission system. In contrast, only corrective maintenance is done on the
distribution system. Planned preventive maintenance is virtually impossible
since KEB's net*ork maps and related data are incomplete.  The first
Karnataka Power Project includes a component to correct the deficiency by
establishing or updating technical data for the distribution system.
2.15    The productivity of KEB's work crews that build and maintain its
transmission and distribution systems could be improved considerably by
introducing improved work and materials planning along with modern tools and
equipment. Improvements in productivity and workmanship are essential to
enable KEB to cppe,with the additional work load of rehabilitating its
distribution system while avoiding excessive staff increases. GOK agreed
during negotiations to caust KEB to engage the'services of an electric,
utility or consulting firm by December 31, 1988, under terms of reference
satisfactory to th' Bank, to review KEB's work planning and procedures,
introduce new tools and equipment, 'and train KEB's staff in their use.
Load Dispatch
2.16    IA addition to operation of the transmission and distribution
networks K1B is also responsible for load dispatch in the State. In
priroiiple, the Southern Region Electricity Board (SRED) is responsible for
co,rdinating load dispatch among the States in the Southern Region
(K4#rnataka, Andhra Pradesh,'Tamil Nadu and Kerala). However, none of the
States nor the SREB has adequate facilities to,9ptimie load dispatch.
Dispatch centres are old and ill-equipped and telemetering and communication
systems are inadequate.  Modern compatible load dispatch facilities are
needed to rectify these deficiencies and facilitate integrated operation of
power stations in the Southern Region. The BREB, with the technical support
of CIA, has recently completed"a prefeasibility study for such facilities.
This has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.  The next step is
a full design study. The Bank is financing consulting se'rvices for the
design study as part of the first Karnataka,Power Project.   CEA is preparing
terms of reference for the necessarr study.,
..



-17-
Materials Management
2.17    Prior to reorganization, the Chief Engineer, Electricity (General)
was in charge of materials management in addition to planning, commercial,
'and administrative activities. Under this arrangementp materials management
received inadequate attention, resulting in unsatisfactory materials supply
which in turn necessitated field offices making local purchases. The
procedures for making these purchases and the equipment bought were often
unsatisfactory. KEB's reorganization assigned responsibility for materials
managements to the newly created position of Chief Engineer, Electricity
(Materials Management and Purchases). This position is responsible not only
for procurement but aloe for the distribution of materials. The revised
arrangements have resulted in improvements to both the supply and quality of
materials. More recently, KEB has started to computerize its inventory
control, initially with transmission and distribution line materials,
constituting about SOX of total purchases. In parallel, it has established
codes for all inventory items with a view to total computerization of
inventory control.
Training
2.18    KBB trains its lower level staff, i.e. technicians, meter readers,
operators etc., at its own training centers. Two of the training centers
are situated ia Bangalore and one each in Hubli, Mangalore and Gulbarga.
Engineers are trained on entry to the Board but, prior to 1983, received
almost no subsequent training. In 1983 about 150 engineers attended a 5-week
training program on technical aspects of electricity utility management,
sponsored by GOI's Ministry of Power, at the Indian Institute of J4anagement,
Bangalore. mED is currently making arrangements to repeat this program on a
regular basis. As noted (para 2.13), training in distribution planning will
be provided by the consultants responsible for preparation of the Bangalore
Distribution Master Plan. Training of financial personnel has been
inadequate but this shortcoming is being addressed under the first Karnataka
Power Project.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01   Karnataka has no indigenous coal resources and so, apart from imports
from the National Thermal Power Corporation or neighboring states, the supply-
of power in the State depends primarily on the development of local
hydroelectric resources.  The potentially exploitable resources are sizable
(equivalent to about 7750 MN) and economically attractive but lengthy project-.-:
preparation, primarily caused by the need to obtain environmental clearancfs,
have left the State with chronic power shortages.



-18-
3.02    The Karnataka Electricity Board (KES) has tried to cope with thei
shortages by imposing restrictions on the use of electricity by its large
consumers. The level of these restrictions has been increasing so that large
consumers now are allowed to use only 40Z of their contracted demand and 80X
of their historical energy consumption. Industries have reacted to these
restrictions by installi:ig thair own generating capacity, usually in the form
of diesel generators. Although industries should be permitted to invest in
captive plants as a second best solution, the use of diesel -- a high value
imported fuel -- is sn expensive way to meet thco State's power requirement.
It therefore is vital that development of the State's low cost hydroelectric
resources be accelerated to meet the power demand. In this regard, the
Sharavathi Tailrace Scheme (STRS), a component of the proposed Project, is
particularly attractive sinc6 it benefits from the regulation provided by
upstream reservoirs and involves no resettlement and minimal submergence of
forest land.
3.03    Karnataka is a large state with an area of 191,800 sq. km.  Over
1,900 MW of its 2,300 MW of generating capacity is located in the southwest
of the State, while its major demand centers such as Bangalore are located in
the southeast, 400 km away.  Over 1,700 kW of transmission lines at voltages
of 220 kV, 66 kV and 33 kV form the transmission grid. About 279,000 km of
Al kV and 400/230 volt distribution lines and 350 MVA of distribution
transformers complete the link with the final consumers. Underinvestment in
both the transmission and distribution networks has led to two problems: poor
quality electrical service and high energy losses. Outages are frequent and
large voltage fluctuations are widespread.  The outages result in a loss of
production, and the voltage fluctuations impose a substantial cost on
consumers in the form of equipment daAage and the expense of installing
voltage stabilizers. Energy losses, which average about 222 of net
generation, also represent a substantial cost to the economy.  Although some
of these losses are due to non-technical problems involving metering and
billing, others are clearly technical in naiture.  Technical losses could be
reduced by at least 52, saving the economy about US$27 million per year.
3.04    The first Karnataka Power Project is making it possible for the State
to develop the second stage of the Kalinadi hydroelectric complex (270 MW)
and reinforce part of the transmission network by adding a 400 kV link from
Kaiga in the northwest to Bangalore in the southeast, and about 300 km of
220 kV lines. The first project also includes: a study to determine an
effective treatment for the leak in the Talakalale dam, upstream of the StRS;
a reactive compensation study of the transmission system; and preparation of,
a 20-yeir distribution master plan for a=ngalore, the largest city in the
State. The proposed Second Karnataka Power Project is designed to complement
the first one by assisting the State in developing atu additional 240 MW of
hydroelectric plant and repairing the serious and potentially dangerous leak
in the Talakalale dam, and, in parallel, increasing the emphasis on needed
ihvestment in transmission and distribution. The transmission component is
intended to improve reliability and reduce energy losses in the bulk power
system; it is based on studies recently completed by KES.  The distributiin



-19-
component addresqes needs in the Bangalore system that are so critical they
are justified independently of the long-term master plan about to be
prepared. Distribution improvements will help KEB avoid further
deterioration in service, especially in the commarcial2 and industrial areas
of the city, and prevent damage to equipment. In addition, the proposed
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system will allow KEB to
respond more quickly to system disturbances, thereby reducing outage times.
The Project will also introduce to Karnataka cost-effective new technologies
such as mobile transformers.
3.05    In terms of institutional development, the first Karnataka Power
Project focuses primarily on the management and financial performance of KEB
and KPC. The proposed Second Project complements this initiative by
emphasizing improvement of KEB's operational efficiency. KEB's procedures,
equipment and tools for building and maintaining its transmission and
distribution systems have not kept pace with modern developments. The
Project includes a provision to obtain assistance from a modern electric
utility to revise these procedures, specify the necessary tools and equipment
and train KEB personnel in their use.
Project Objectives
3.06    The main objectives of the proposed project are tos
(a) alleviate the acute shortage of generating capacity in Karnataka and
the Southern Region by developing-the STRS, a low cost indigenous
hydroelectric resource; -
(b) provide adequate transmission capacity to evacuate power from the
STR;
(c) reduce energy losses to economic levels and improve service quality
by strengthening the State's transmission grid and Bangalore's -'
distribution system;
(d) reduce distribution system capital and operating costs by introducing
new technologies; and
(e) reduce installation, operation and maintenance costs by providing
modern training, tools, and equipment.
Project Description
3.07    The main features, of the p'roposed project, being implemented by KPC
are:
(a) construction of the 240 MS Sharavathi Tailrace Hydroelectric Scheme
(STRB) at Gersoppa;



-20-
(b) compensatory afforestation associated with the STRS; and
(c) repair of the Talakalale dam which is leaking and is located upstream
of the STRS.
3.08    The main features, of' the proposed project, being implemented by KEB
are:
(a) construction of about 2SO km of double circuit 400 kV, 250 km of
double and single circuit 220 kV transmission lines, and 225 km of
single circuit 220 kV transmission lines on existing towers, together
with the associated substations;---
(b) laying of about 6 km of 66 kV underground cable together with
constructon of the associated substations;
(c) reinforcement of the 11 kV primary distribution grid in Bangalore;
(d) implementation of a computerized distribution system control center;
(e) acquisition of tools and equipment and training in their use for
transmission and distribution construction and maintenance; and
(f) consulting services for design and construction supervision of 400 kV
-         lines and substations.
Annex 3.1 describ a the project's components in detail.
Project Engineering
3.09    KPC has completed final design and has prepared draft bid documents
for the Sharavathi Tail!ace hydroelectric scheme.
3.10    The rock conditions at thi site of the hydroeltcttic scheme are good
and do not present unusual features beyond KPC's experience and established
competence. However, given the size of the Gersoppa dam, KPC agreed, during
negotiations, to retain the services of the Panel of Xperts (POE), appointed
under the first Karnatak4 Power Project forr,Kadra and"Kodasalli, to review
the design of the STRE dam and monitor its construction, including any design
modifications during construction. Since the integrity'of the STRS depends
on the safety of upstream structures, KPC agreed that the terms of reference
for the POw-will include a periodic review of the safety of, and therefore
maintenance programs relating to, upstream structures.s
3.11   WKPC is investigating the internal conditions of the Talakalale dam to
find an effective way of eliminating the leak through this 6E0 m high masonry



-21-
structure which is a critical component of the Sharavathi hydroelectric
complex. The Corporation, under the first Karnataka Power Project, has
agreed to supplement its in-house engineering capability by retaining the
services of a consulting firm, with experience in this highly specialized
area of engineering. It has evaluated proposals from three consulting firms.
[PC expects to award a contract to the winning firm by June 5, 1988 with a
schedule that will lead to the preparation of bid documents for the remedial
work by June 30, 1989. Annex 3.1 gives more details of the leak through the
Talakalale dam and the proposed remedial measures recozended from the
preliminary diagnostic work undertaken to date.
3.12    KEB has completed feasibility studies for the transmission
components. It will complete detailed route surveys for all of the lines
by December 1988, and bid documents for the steel transmission towers and
other transmission items by March 1989.
3.13    KEB's staff has adequate experience in the design and construction of
220 kV transmission lines and substations, but it does not have adequate
experience with 400 kV facilities. To remedy this deficiency, KEB has agreed
to employ consultants to design a&. supervise construction of the 400 kV
facilities.                        'I
3.14    [EB's staff has completed the design and specification of most of the
distribution equipment.  Exceptions are items, such as mobile transformers
and gas-insulated substations,.which are being introduced into Karnataka for
the first time. KEB has agreed to amend the terms of reference of British
Electricity International Ltd4t engaged under the first Karnataka Power
Project to prepare a distribution master-plan for Bangalore, to-include the
preparation of specifications for these items. About 501 of the bid
documents for the distribution equipment have been completed and the
remainder will be completed by June 1988. The engineering and detailed
specification of the proposed Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system for Bangalore's distribution network are included in the terms
of reference of the same consultants. Bid documents for this component of
the project will be completed by December 31, 1988.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.15    KPC will manage the construction of the ST7R and the repair of the
Talakalale dam. It has successfully completed more complex hydroelectric
schemes than the STRS, for example, KalinAdi Stage I. KPC's project
organization for the proposed project is similar to that used for Kalinadi
stage I. The Bank is satisfied that [PC is capable of completing the project
according to the planned implementation schedule.
3.16    KPC will retain the Central water Commission (CWC) to provide
engineering support during const'uction of the STRS.  It has also agreed to
hire a specialist consulting firm to formulate a procedure for repairing the
Talakalale dam and supervise the remedial work (para 3.11). The Bank has



-22-
cleared KCC's report evaluating the consultants' proposals, for formulating
and supervising a repair procedure for the Talakalale dam, and recommending a
contract award.
3.17 Preparatory work for the M$TR including access roads to quarries and
a temporary construction camp was started in October 1987. The contract for
river diversion was also awarded and work has started in October 1987. Work
on the diversion will be suspended during the monsoon. Very heavy rainfall
at the project site during the monsoon -- about 4,400 mm 'n four months
limits construction work to the eight months per year between monsoon
seasons.
3.18    Work on the dam will begin in October 1989 once the river has been
diverted. According to the detailed implementation schedule given in Table I
of Annex 3.2, the first generating unit will be commissioned by April 1994
and the fourth and final unit by October 1994.
3.19    The schedule for the Talakalale dam repair will be finalized after
the field investigations are completed and the scope of the remedial work is
better defined. Based on the available information, it is anticipated that
two stages of grouting will be required: an initial grouting program lasting
6 to 8 months starting in October 1989, followed by regrouting one year later
to eliminate any remaining seepage. To ensure the safety of the Talakalale
dam before significant construction is done on the STRS, during negotiations,
KPC agreed to present to the Bank a satisfactory plan for repairing the
Talakalale dam and sign a contract with a qualified firm ,y October 31, 1989
to perform the necessary work.
3.20    KEB will manage the implementation of the transmission and
distribution components of the proposed project. The Bank is satisfied that
KXi's project organization, with the help of consultants (paras 3.13 and
3.14), is adequate to complete the project according to the proposed schedule
(Table 2, Annex 3.2). The work on the transmission and distribution
components, including the remaining design activities, will span a period of
about five years. All lines and substations will be commissioned by
June 1993.
Project Costs
3.21    Table 3.1 shows a summary of project costs.  The total cost of the
Project including physical and price contingencies (but excluding about
US$82 million equ^valent of taxes and duties) is US$385 million equivalent,
of which US$160 million (421) represents the foreign exchange costs.
Interest during construction adds US$103 million to the financing required.
The Project costs are based on March 1988 prices which are derived from:
(a) recent quotations for the civil works of the Kadra and Kodasalli
hydroelectric schemes of the Kalinadi complex; (b) recent quotations for
works and equipment similar to other project components; and
(c) manufacturers' proforma quotations. US$12 million (net of taxes and



-23-
duties) is allowed for the repair of the Talakalale dam. This figure
reflects the assumption, based on the advice of a geotechnical expert, that
the remedial action will comprisi a two-stage grouting program. Designs for
the hydroelectric scheme and the distribution components are in sufficient
detail to provide a reliable basis for cost estimates. The cost of
consulting services is based on an estimated total of 300 manmonthat of which
about 40 manmonths are expected to be from expatriate experts. Average costs
for  consulting services are estimated at US$14,000 per expatriate manmonth
and US$2,000 per-local manmonth inclusive of fees, overheads and expenses.
An allowance is also made for non-time based services. Engineering and
administration is assumed to be 10 of base cost.
3.22    Physical contingencies of 10% on civil works and 400 kV transmission
facilities, 8X on transmission facilities of 200 kV and below and 5% on
mechanical and electrical equipment are allowed. These result in overall
physical contingencies of about 8% of the base cost. Physical contingencies
for civil works are in line with the degree of knowledge of site geology, the
current status of design and the relatively simple nature of the works to be
executed. Physical contingencies for the transmission lines are consistent
with the relatively flat and open terrain they will traverse.
3.23    Price contingencies, which amount to about 18% of the US$371 million
base cost plus physical contingencies, are based on annual inflation rates
for local costs of 8X for 1988/89, 7% for 1989/90 and 6% thereafter, and
annual inflation rates for foreign costs of 4X. The exchange rate used for
the base year 1988/89 is 13.0 Rupees per US$. Interest during construction
is calculated on the basis that loan finance for the Project will bear an
interest rate of 11.5% per azuum, which is the current interest rate for QOK
loans to KPC and KEB. Annex 3.3 presents detailed project cost estimates.



-24-
Table 3.1: Project Costs 8ua_ary
-Rupess Million--          ------US$ Hillion-
"Inesetment costs           Local, Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Preparatory Works              78       -1-     79      6.0       0.1      6.1
Afforestation                   7        -       7      0.5        -       0.5
Civil Works                  581       115     696     43.7       8.6     52.3
Turbine-Generat9r Sets        320      620     940     24.0      46.6     70.6
Mechanical Equipment           79       78     157      5.9       5.9     11.8
Electrical Equipment           73        8      8Z     - 5.5      0.6      6.1
Field and Office
Equipmeat                     11-       4      15      0.9       0.3      1.11
Repair of Talakalale
DItY                         98    . 41       139      7.4       3.0     10.4
Transmission Lines
400 kV                      463        92     555     34.8       6.9     41.7
Substations 400 kV            167      138     305     12.6      10.4     23.0
Transmission Lines
220 kV             -O8                 17,    225     15.6       1.2     16.8
Substations 220 kV           197       207     404   - 14.8      15.6     30.4
Transmission
Cables 66 kV                 20        17      37      1.5       1.3      2.8
Substations & Mobile
Transformers 66 kV           24        25      49      1.8       1.9      3.7
Distribution
Equipment 11 kV             409       256     665     30.7      19.2     49.9
Tools & Equipment              33       35      68      2.5       2.6      5.1
Distribution SCADA-
system                       17        18      35      1.2       1.3      2.5
Training                       -         7       7       -        0.5      0.5
Consultancy                   11         4      15      0.8       0.3      1.1
Engineering and
Administration              443        13     456     33.3       1.0     34.3
Total Base Costs            3239      1696    4935    243.5    127.3    370.8
Physical Contingencies       268       128     396     2ft.2      9.6     29.8
Price Contingencies          956       526    1482     43.2   23.3        66.5
Total Project Costs         4463      2350    6813    306.9    160.2    467.1
Interest During
Construction                884       455    1339     68.0     35.0    103.0
Total Financing Required    5347      2805    8152    374.9    195.2    570.1
ur    _m           m,   mam                  a



-25-
Project Financing
3.24    The proposed Bank loan of US$260 million equivalent amounts to about
531 of the total project cost, net of duties and taxes, and is equivalent to
the estimated foreign exchange component of US$160 million plus
US$100 million of the local cost component. The loan will be to the
Government of India (GOI) and GOI will onlend it to the Government of
Karnataka (00K), which will in turn onlend approximately US$130 million to
KPC and US$130 million to KEB. The onlending terms from COI to GOK will be
those applicable to Central assistance to Karnataka for development projects.
The onlending terms from GOK to KPC and KEB will be repayment over twenty
years, including a five-year grace period, at an interest rate of not less
than 11.5% p.a. GOI will bear the exchange and interest rate risks. The
Project financing plan is given in Table 3.2. GOI may consider suppliers' or
export credits for the major equipment packages if a successful bidder or
other agency provides an acceptable financing proposal for the lowest
evaluated bid in cash terms. In this event, the Bank would consider
reallocating the funds no longer needed for financing these items to other
items in the project, as appropriate.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million equivalent)
I of Component
Source                         Local   Foreign   Total         Financing
(a) KPC Component:
IBRD                       47.0      83.0    130.0           46
KPC                        39.6         -      39.6          14
0OK                        91.4      22.6    114.0           40
Subtotal                  178.0     105.6    283.6          100
(b) KED Component:
IBRD                       54.0      76.0    130.0           63
KU                         74.5         -      74.5        - 26
GOK                        68.4      13.6      82.0          29
Subtotal                  196.9      89.6    286.5          100
Total Financed                374.9--  195.2    570.1
,_        2=U=-
Any cost overruns will be financed initially by GOK, but will ultimately be
borne by KPC and/or KRB, as applicable.



-26-
Procurement
3.25    The procurement arrangements for the proposed project are sumoarized
in Table 3.3. All contracts for civil works estimated to cost tUS$5 million
or more, and all contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost
US$200,000 or more, will be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB). Bidders for civil works contracts will be prequalified. ICB
contracts represent about 92% of all project procurement. The contracts for
civil works are expected to attract bids from local firms; the contracts for
the supply of goods are expected to attract bids from firms manufacturing
such goods in India. In these cases, the Bank's standard domestic preference
provisions will be applied in the evaluation and comparison of bids for
contracts procured by ICB.
3.26    Only US$ 28.1 million worth of works, goods, and services will not
be procured by ICB, consisting of:
(a) US$ 25.1 million of miscellaneous civil works and switchyards, and
office and field equipment which will be procured by local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures that have been reviewed by the
Bank and are considered acceptable (foreign contractors and suppliers
will not be precluded from participating in LB);
(b) US$0.8 million of equipment for limiting fault current at existing
11 kV substations which is proprietary and will thesefore be procured
by direct contracting;
(c) Us$ 1.6 million of training and consulting services which will be
procured following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants;
and
^(d) US$ 0.6 million of compensatory afforestation which will consist of
planting and maintaining trees on an area equivalent to that
submerged by the project and will be executed by GOKDF using Force
Account, the most economic way of implementing the compensatory
afforestation.
3.27    Bank financing will cover approximately 30 packages.  Vorks contracts
worth US$5 million or more and goods contracts worth US$1 million or more,
representing more than 901 of the amount to be financed by the Bank, will be
subject to prior review by the Bank. The remainder will be subject to
selective post-award review.



-27-
Table 3.3   Summary of Procurement  ranento
(Us$ Million) al
Procurement Method
ICB b/     LCB     Other c/     Total
STk8 Dam and Powert-4use             68.6        7.1                   75.7
(44.6)      (-)                  (44.6)
Afforestation                             ..              0.6           0.6
(0.4)         (0.4)
Turbogenerators                  .   90.3                              90*3
(59.6)                           (59.6)
Mechanical Equipment                  14.7-                            14.7
(9-9)                            (9.9)
Electrical Equipment             ..  7.2         0.5 -                  ' 7.7
(6.3)     (?6)'                  (6.3)
Talakalale Dam                        13.6                             13.6
(8.0)                            (8.0)
Transmission Lines and               131.5      16.3                  147.8
Substations                       (90.4)       (-)                  (90.4)
Distribution Equipment               68.2                         __   68.2
(36.9- ~(35.9)
SCADA                                 3.2                              -3.2
(2.1)                            (2.1)
Field, Office, and Lab Equipment      0.2        1.2                    1.4
(0.2)      (-) .                 (0.21
Training and Consulting                                   1.6           1.6
*          (1.6)          (1.6)-
Engineering and Administration                           42.3          42.3
(.) .(-)-
397.5      25.1     44.5         467.1
(258.0)              (2.0)       (260.0)
at Amolpts include taxes an4 duties (US$82 million), and figures in
brackets indicate the Bank-financed portion.
b/ Including US$0.8 million procured by direct contracting.
e/ Others: Force account and administrative overheads.
Disbursements
3.28    Bank funds will be disbursed against: (a) 100Zj1a-f the CIP (ex-factory
if manufactured in India) cost of equipment and materials procured under ICB;.
(b) 701 of the cost of repair of the Talakalale dam which will be subject to
ICR; (c) 651 of the cost of other civil works 4ubject. to ICR; (d) 80 'of the
costs of compensatory afforestation; and (d) 1001 of the total cost of
.          ]                    ,~~~~~~~~~



-28-
consultants' and training services. Disbursement will be fully documented
ezcept for payments against civil works, training, equipment, materials,
consultant, and compensatory afforestation contracts each less than
US$20o0000 equivalent. Such disbursements will made against statements of
expenditures (80Es), the documentation of which will not be sent to the Bank
but will be retained, by KPC or KEB as appropriate, for inspection by
supervision missions. Standard procedures for auditing SOBs will apply. To
facilitate disbursements a special account will be established with an
authorised allocation of US$20 million. Annex 3.5 shows the estimated
disbursement schedule as derived from the standard profile for power projects
in India. The closing dtte will be December 31, 1996.
Project Operation and Maintenance
3.29   The Sharavathi Tailrace Hydroelectric Scheme will form an integral
part of the Sharavathi hydroelectric complex. The total catchment area of
.the Sharavathi river upstream of the STRS is about 2,143 sq km, including
151 sq km of free catchment area downstream of the existing Sharavathi
hydroelectric station. About 93Z of the annual inflow into the STRS
reservoir is fully regulated upstream by the head reservoir at Linganmakki.
This reservoir has a live storage of 4,294 million cubic meters, equivalent
to 941 of the average annual flow at that point in the river. The major
hydroelectric stations in Karnataka are designed for annual load factors in
excess of 601. Other hydroelectric stations have limited storage capacity or
power generation is conditioned by water use for irrigation purposes. The
Karnataka power system is thus short of peaking capacity. The STRS is
ideally suited for peaking duty since the available flow is fully regulated
upstream and headrace conduits would be extremely short (80 m). Optimization
studies have confirmed that the optimum installed capacity should be 240 MS
with an annual load, factor of 301. On the basis of operation studies for the
existing generating stations and reservoirs on the Sharavathi river and the
proposed STRS, annual firm generation at Gersoppa will be 622 GWh with, on
average, about 32.6 GWh per year of secondary energy. With respect to
maintenance of the STRS, KPC agreed, during negotiations, to send to the
Rank, no later than one year before the expected completion of the
svtructures, details of its arrangements for inspecting and maintaining the
STRS dam and associated structures to ensure their continued safety. Given
the dependence of the dam on upstream structures the maintenance program will
also encompass these.
Proje,t Monitori-ng
3.30    During negotiations, GOK agreed to cause KEB, and KPC agreed to send
to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering physical works, consultants'
work, costs, disbursements, and administrataive aspects of the Project, the
first of which should be for the quarter ending December 31, 1988. In
addition, KID and KPC agreed to prepare and send to the Bank annual
financial, statistical, and administrative reports.



-29-
ProJect Risks
3.31    Except for those risks pertaining to the Talakalale damp there are no
unusual technical risks associated with the Project. The risks related to
the Talakalale dam are being minimized by the use of specialized consultants
to investigate and supervise the repairs needed. There is a risk that those
consultants will find that more extensive repairs are required than the
two-stage grouting program currently envisaged. However, if *Nis occurs
neither the rationale for nor appropriate timing of the STR, will be
affecte4. The geological and geotechnical information relating to the STRS
is adequate and indicates good foundation conditions. KPC and KEB have
sufficient staff available to carry out the work who are experienced in
supervising and executing activities similar to those of the project.
Consultants will be used in all areas in which their in-house expertise is
lacking.
Water Rights
3.32    The Sharavathi river lies entirely within the State of Karnataka.
GOK owns the water rights and there are no pending water rights disputes that
could affect the Project's construction or operation.
Resettlement
3.33    The STRS involves no resettlement since there are no human
settlements in the area that will be inundated by the reservoir, or in the
areas earmarked for compensatory afforestation. This has been confirmed by a
forestry consultant who visited all the sites and Bank staff who visited the
dam site. Furthermore, there is no indication that the residents of the
sparse settlements surrounding the proposed reservoir are in any way using
the area to be inundated.
3.34    One small Hindu temple containing a Hero Stone is the only existing
structure in the area to be inundated. KPC will relocate the temple prior to
completion of the dam.
Forestry and Environmental Aspects
3.35    About 700 ha of forest will be lost as a result of the construction
of project infrastructure and submergence by the reservoir. The loss of
forest, equivalent to about 3 ha per MW, is low for a hydroelectric project.
GOI's Department of Forests and Wildlife (DOFW) has cleared the STRS in
accordance with the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. The principal condition
of DOWF's clearance is a requirement for compensatory afforestation and the
necessary provision for this has been made in the proposed Project (pars
3.07). KPC intends to eniage the services of the Government of Karnataka's
Department of Forests (GOKDF) to perform the compensatory afforestation.



-30-
3.36    GOKDF has already prepared a c.kmpensatory afforestation plan complete
with cost estimates. The Bank is satisfied that the plan, budget, and
institutional arrangements are adequate to cultivate an area of new forest
plantations equivalent to the area of forest lost"due to construction of the
STRS.1/ The non-forest land required for the compensatory'afforestation has
been transferred to GOKDF. Forests planted on this land will be protected
under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, of the Government of India.
3.37    Between 50 and 70 ha of forest will be lost as a result of the
construction of the 35 km of transmission line from the STES to Talaguppa.
A relatively small loss is expected from the construction of the other
transmission lines which cross terrain largely devoid of forest. Although
DOFW clearance for the STRS constitutes "in princlple" clearance for the
associated transmission line from the STRS to Talaguppa, formal clearances
for this and certain other lines included in the proposed project are still
required. During negotiations, GQK agreed to cause KEB to complete the
detailed route surveys and make formal applications for~'DOFW 'clearance for--
all transmission lines in the proposed project requiring such clearance, by
December 31, 1988.                                             J
3.38    The STRS has been cleared by GOI's Department of Savironment and the
lank is satisfied that the project poses no serious environmental problems.
The dam site is located on the edge of the Sharavathi Valley Wildlife
Sanctuary and only about 100 hectares of the area to be inundated are within
the wildlife sanctuary'.  Furthermore, there is nothing to suggest that the
forest that will be lost is more valuable as a wildlife hAbitat than the
remainder of the forest that will be left intact. The loss of 100 hectires
of the sanctuary may result in the loss of about 0.25X of the wildlife
however, exhaustive studies of the wildlife reserves in the Western Chats
indicate that rare species of wildlife such as panthers, tigers,bison and
elephants inhabit higher elevations, typically above 450 m.  Therefore,
submergence, which will be at an elevation of 55 m, will have no significant
impact on these species, especially since there -is no natural corridor across
the river in the project area. The compensatory forests which are in small
patches will be useful primarily in meeting basic hulmn needs because they
are located near villages and will contain a wide variety of commercially
valuable tree species.
3.39    Vector and water borne diseases such as malaria, filaria and Japanese
encephalitis could potentially increase in the area ofj the STRS. KPC will
take the appropriate preventative and containmetnt measures, one of which is
to establish a health unit at the construction site. There are-no industries
1/ COI s Department of Environment requires that forest land lost to a
hydroelectric project be compensated by either: afforestation of an
equivalent area of non-forest land; or forest improvement-on two times
the area of degraded forest land.



-31-
or urban areas upstream with effluents to affect the quality of the water in
the STUS reservoir.
3.40    Forest cover around the reservoir is good and GOR's watershed
conservation measures are good since the entire watershed is a forest and
wildlife reserve. Erosion and sedimentation are not expected to be problems
given the thick forest cover over almost the entire catmhment area of the
Sharavathi river.
3.41    After the STRS reservoir is filled, there will be minimal change from
the present river flow conditions downstream. At present the water flow
follows the daily cycle of electticity demand with a low flow at night, a
higher flow during the day, and two peaks around 7 AM and 7 PM. While the
reservoir is being filled, there will be a reduction in the downstream flow.
KPC is preparing a diagram of downstream flow as a function of reservoir
filling and is performing an analysi; of the effects of the interruption of
downstream flow on the potintial for salt water intrusion.  This study will
enebte KPC to fl l -th1reservair in a -way to_mtimize adverse environmental
effects.  GOK has formed a committee, chaired by the Chie"t Sectaty,vtth--
the responsibility of ensuring that environmental safeguards are respected.
-  IV. ~FINANCE -
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
Background       
4.01    The financial fiairs of KPC are governed prigaritr by the Companies
Act-=of 1956.  However, as a generating company, KPC is also subject to the
Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948. The Electricity (Supply) Act requires
State Electricity Boards to earn a minimum,return of 31 after interest, and
generating companies to earn a minimum rett1rn as specified by the promoting
governments.  The Act also permit State Governments to legislate a higher
-return when appropriate. For KPC, a minimum return of 31 after interest is
required by OOK.
4.02    From 1981t82 to 1985/86, KPC expanded its capital investment by about
401. 'Despite its high growth, KPC was able to earn a satisfactory rate of
return (after interest), averaging 3.41 per annum for the period, on its eet
fixed assets (Annex 4.2).  While this performance weakened in 1986187, du_,
primarily to high interest charges cnd the failure of the monsoon, it is
forecast to recover slightly in 1987/88 as a result of an average tariff
increase of about 331. Assuming normal hydrologic conditions' resulting inca
more favorable hydro-thermal power mix, KPC's revenue-in 1988/89 is expected
to improve to a level sufficient to earn the required minimum-return of 3X
after interest.  Because the financial viability of both KEB and KPC is
heavily dependent on the success or 'failure of the monsoon, KRB has agreed to
include in a tariff study (para 4.09 and 4.32), being carried out under the



-32-
first Karnataka Power Project (Loan 2827-IX), a component to examine the
feasibility of establishing a Hydroelectric Stabilization fund. The study
will investigate the role of GOK, KPC and KEB, the sources for creating the
initial cash reserves, the tariff levels required to support the fund, the
method of operation, and analyses of watershed hydrology. The following
paragraphs review the finances of KPC. Several actions proposed under the
first Karnataka Power Project to enable KPC, inter alia, to achieve the
minimum 3X rate of return stipulated by COY in accordance with the
Electricity (Supply) Act are reaffirmed un4er the proposed second Karnataka
Power Project.                                 -
Accounting 8ystems and Financial Organization
4.03    KPC's finance division is headed by a Finance Director who is a
senior member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service.  The daily management
of the financial operations is the responsibility of the Financial Controller
and his supporting staff.  In general, KPC's financial personnel have
adequate qualifications and experience. However, it lacks staff trained in
usmig computer software and hardware for financial reporting and pLanning.
The largely manual reporting and planning systems-result in delays in fixed
asset reconciliation and delaya in effecting internal financial controls.
KPC practices an accrual-based, double entry accounting system with
well-defined eight-digft code of accounts suitable for computerization.  In
view of KPC's rapid growth in investments over the next decade, its manual
financial reporting and planning systems would no longer accommodate its
needs efficiently.  The first Karnataka Power Project includes financing for
appropriate computer hardware and software, technical assistance, and -
training to improve KPC's performance in financial reporting, monitoring, and
planning.  KPC is now in the process of-acquiring computer systems for its
Teebnical and Finance Divisions.
Audit Arrangements
4.04    Internal Audit.  KPC's organization includes an internal audit unit
headed by a Deputy Controller of Accounts reporting to the Financial
Director. The unit is responsible for auditing all divisiobs of the
Corporation, and preparing manuals detailing appropriate internal audit
procedures. Recently, KPC strengthened its internal audit unit by having
qualified,accounts personnel working full-time in the unit. Previously, the
staff of the unit had several unrelated responsibilities. With full-time
staff, and the computerization of KPC's accounts, the unit is expected to
operate more effectively in the future. However, in view of KPC s rapid ,
expansion of its investment program, additional staff will be needed in the
near future.                                   /
4.05    External Audit.  KPC's accounts are audited, in accordance with
guidelines issued by the Accountant General of India (AC), by Chartered.x
Accountants appointed by the Company Law Board (constituted by GOI) for a
period of one year renewable up to three years. The audit is 2reviewed by



-33-
the AG. The guidelines issued by the AG and the quality of past audits are
satisfactory. The Corporation is required by the Companies Act to finalise
its accounts and have them audited within six months of the end of the
financial year. XPC has generilly been able to adhere to this time schedule
although minor delays have arisen, particularly when new auditors have been
appointed.  XPC agreed, under the first Karnataka Power Project, to furnish
its audited accounts together with the auditor's and AG's reports to the Bank
within seven months of the end of each financial year. Its 1986/87 accounts
were audited and sent to the' Bank on schedule. This agreement has been
repeated for the proposed Loan.
Pixed Asset Accounting
4.06    KPC maintains its fixed asset registers at historical- cost, as
required by GOI.. In order to reconcile fixed asset registers with actual
assets, RPC conducts a physical verifiv4tion of fixed assets once every three
years. However, the subsequent reconciliation and concomitant adjustment of
accounts has frequently taken too long. The April 1983 physical verification
of fixed assets exercise is nearing completion. The next physical fixed
assets verification is scheduled for 1989. KPC agreed, under the first
Karnataka Power Project, that its reconciliation and adjustment of fixed
asset accounts will in future be completed within six months of the date of
the verification.  The Bank will monitor KPC's efforts-in maintaining proper
fixed asset accounts during implementation of the proposed loani;
Insurance
4.07    During construction, KPC's assets are insured against risk of damage
due to fire, explosion, etc. by contractors. After commissioning,-KPC holds
insurance policies which conform to accepted utility standards in India.
Accounts Receivable
4.08    KPC bills its sole customer, ReB, monthly and payment is due within,
30 days.  However, despite concerted eff arts by KPC, accounts receivable at
the end of 1986/87 were Rs 1,237 million representing about 8.1 months'
sales. KBB has been unable to settle its bills promptly because it in turn,
has been unable to collect receivables owed by several public sector -
customers (para 4.30).   As noted in para 4.30, through the adjustments of
accounts among GOK, KPC and KRB, KPC's receivables is expected to be cleared
by 1989/90 as agreed upon under the first Karnataka Power Project.
Tariffs
4.09    KPC's tariffs, like KID's, are de facto set by GOK in the light of
the recommendations of a tariff committii which includes representatives of
GOK, XS, KPC, the Karnataka Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the Karnataka
Consumers Association. KPC' s-tariffs have generally been flat rate and have
been set on a station specific basis to cover the relevant historic costs.



-34-
Historicallyt tariffs have generally been such as to allow KPC to comply with
GOK's directive in accordance with the Electricity (Supply) Act although,
prior to a recent amendmentt the financial performance requirement was only
loosely specified. Average revenue has increased from 7.1 paisa/kWh in
1980/81 to an estimated 33.9 paisa/kVh in 1987/88 (Annex 4.2), representing
an annual average increase of 26X, well above the prevailing rate of
inflation. Compliance with the amended Electricity (Supply) Act (para 4.01)
would increase the average tariff in constant 1987 price terms from 24.6
paisa/kWh in 1988/89 to 38.9 paisa/kWh in 1995/96, representing an increase
of 582 in real terms. Although, in general, flat rate-tariffs will fail to
give appropriate economi-c signals to KEB which is responsible for load
dispatcht the prevailing shortages of power in Karnataka and the Southern
Region are such that this is unlikely to be causing significant distortion
currently. However, further study is necessary to derive a tariff structure
which would reflect as closely as possible the long run marginal costs of
electricity supply. This exercise is included in the terms of reference for
the tariff study being carried out under the first Karnataka Power Project
(para 4.32).
Past Financial Performance
4.10    Detailed financial statements for 1982/83 - 1986/87 are presented in
Annex 4.2. Key dota and financial ratios are summarized in Table 4.1.



-35..
TAb1i64.13  Sumary of KPC's Performance 1982/83 - 1986/87
1982/83   1983/84   1984185  1985/86  1986/87
Generation (CMb)                  7,326      7,316     7,927-   7,222    7,465
Sales of Blectricity (0Mb)        7,175     7,159      7,741    7,016    7t169
Ave. Revenue (Paisa/kWh)            9.9       14.0 f   15.8      17.8     25.4
Total Revenue (Rs M)                718      1,021     1,233    1,330    1,936
Operating Expenses (Rs M)           405        544      >784      792    1,174
Operating Income (Rs M)             313        476       450      538      762
Operating Ratio (Z),'    56                     53        64       60       61
Net. Income (Rs K) 1/                56        192       155      205       19
Rat4 of Return
as per Covenant 2/                1.6       4.9        3.8      5.2      0.3
Rate of Return
Before Interest 3/                8.3       11,8      11.2      9.3      9.3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio         0.6        1.7       1.7,     1.1      0.9
Contribution to Investment               -
Program (2) 4/                      4         13         5       '5      -26
1/ After interest.                    i=i
2/  Income after interest as a percent of historically valued net f
assets. '2                     -
!MJ Incoaie before interest as a percent of historically valued average net
fixed assets.
41  Based on 3-year moving average.,
Kc's finuancial performance during the period 19833/84-19,85/86, as measured by'
-the return on assets (after int rest)', met 'the requirement 'of- the-Electricity -
(Supply) Act '(para.4.01).  In , 82/83, its return on,assets  (after interest)
fell short of the Act's requireaipnt due largely to highepr interest payments
during the year. 11,1986/87, despite of a 431 increase in the average
tariff, the-return on assets (after interest) was 'only 0.3Z due to the
interest charged to operatipps during that year. In the period from'
19"2/83-1986/870 KPC's contribution to investment was low'primarily d4ie to:
(i) a heavy debt service burden as a result of the practice of financing
investment mostly through debt, exacerbated by GOK's conversion of it& loans
(since 1984/85) from 30 -td 15, yearn repayment terms with no grace; and (ii)
low tariff levels. To help alleviate this situation, OOK agreed  under the
first Karnataka Power Project tot (i)'reduce the debt-service burden of KWPC
by lengtbening the loan repayment terms of all new loans to KPC; and
(ii) assist kPC ip recovering its receivables. Vith respect to the low
tariff, under the Electricity (Supply) Act, GMK can legislate  higher tariff
levels to enable KPC to earn the required 31 rate of return (after interest).
The Bank will monitor closely COK's action in rehabilitating KPC's finances
(pare 4.12) and KPC's compliance with the Bank's financial covenants.



-36-              -
Present Financial 4osition
4.11    KPC's Balance Sheet (budget) at the end of 1987/88 is presented in
Annex 4.3 and summarized in Table 4.2.,
'Table 4.2:  KPC'- Balance Sheet (Budget), March 31,- 1988-
(Re Million)
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                      10,480
Less: Accumulated Depreciation           1,975
Net Fixed Assets                                                 8,505
Work-in-Progress                                                 3,622
12,127
Current Assets                           2,280
Lesst  Current Liabilities                 684
Net Working CapitalE                                             1,596
Total Assets                                                  13,124
Equity and Liabilities
wOK Equity                                 560
General and Other Reserves                 931              -
Total Equity                                                   1,491
Long Term Debt                                                  12 233
Total Equity and Liabilities                                    13,724
COK's equity contribution of Rs 560 million was made at the tite of formation
of the Corporation in 1071 (para 2.02). Subsequent capIta-expeaditure has
been financed primarily by debt, resiulting in an estimated debt/equity ratio
at the end of 1987/88 of 89/11.. The Corporation's debt service coverage is
estimated to improve to-1.5 in 1987/88, due to GOK's'action (pare 4.30) in
offsetting accounts among GOK, KPC and KEB in accordance with an action
,program aimed at reducing KPC*s and K8B's receivables. Despite a 332
increase in the average tariff, the Corporation's rate of return (after
interest) in 1987/88 is estimated to be marginally below the 32 stipulated by
the glectricity (Supply) Act, due to the large Aount of.interest chatged to
operations during the year. KPC's substantial debt service and the seivere
drought conditions experienced at the same time continued to impede 'its
financial performance, and overshadowed its achievements in:  (i) recovering
its receivables'(para 4.30); (ii) revising significantly its tariff levels
(pare 4.09); and (iii) str'engthening its8institutional capabilities
(para 4.03-4.05). OOK has recently formed a comittee comprising high level
representatives..from  ,OK  KPC and KRB to address the weak fitancial positions
of KPC'and KU,# and to evaluate actions needed to rehabilitate the finances



-37-
of these electric utilities (pare 4.12). The Bank, under the proposed
project, will monitor the progress of the committee's work.
Financial Recovery Program
4.12    [PC's and [E8's financial recovery is dependent on: (i) the
occurrence of good monsoons; and (ii) the progress of the committee in
rehabilitating the finances of both organizations. With respect to the
impact of the drought, a Hydroelectric Stabilization Fund study has been
included as a component of a tariff study (para 4.02) to examine the
feasibility of creating financial reserves and using the reserves to
safeguard the financial performances of KPC and KEB in the event of future
droughts. The methods of creating and operating the Fund will be
investigated under the study. Aside from the drought effect, other financial
difficulties faced by KPC and [RB isclude: ti) high debt/equity ratio
representing inadequate equity contributions and/or substantial debt burden
as a result of financing investments mainly by debt; (ii) excessively high
receivable levels; and (iii) COK loans with onerous repayment terms, of 15
years with no grace, which are not commensurate with the nature of the assets
being financed. GOK has formed a tripartite committee involving high level
representatives from GOK [PC and KEB to 'address [PC's and KER's financial
difficulties. To restore [PC's and KEB's financial position, the committee
is expected to address the following specific issues and recommend
appropriate actions to improve them shortly: (i) level of accounts
receivable; (ii) tariff levels; (iii) loan repayment terms on all newORK
loans; (iv) equity contribution through cash infusion; (v) equity
contribution through conversion of outstanding GOK loans to equity;
(vi) adjustment of investment programs in line with available financial
resources; (vii) cost reduction measures; and (viii) recovery of losses
incurred by KESB in rural electrification. Under the first Karnataka Power
Project, the entities have agreed to: (i) maintain acceptable levels of
accounts receivable; and (ii) revise the tariffs sufficiently to comply with
the minimum 3X rate of return (after interest). G0K has agreed to make all
new loans to KPC and KEB with repayment terms of 20 years including 5 years'
grace. The Bank will monitor closely the progress of the committee in
addressing the needed financial recovery program described above, and those
actions agreed under the first project, during supervision of the proposed
project. The progress in restoring a strong financial position to both
institutions is expected to be gradual, particularly in the case of KER whose
financial performance has been most severely affected by the recent drought.
Forecast Investment and Financing Plans
4.13    KPC's investment plan for 1988/89 to 1995/96 is presented in
Annex 4.2.  The Corporation plans to invest about Rs 32.9 billion
(US$2,533 million) over the period. About Rs 12.4 billion (US$950 million)
will be invested in thermal capacity and about Rs 20.5 billion
(US$1,583 million) in hydro capacity.



-38-
4.14    KPC's financing plan for the investment program is summarized in
Table 4.3.
Table 4.3:t  KPC's Financing Plan 1988/89 - 1995/96
Is Million      US Million        X
Requirements
Capital Investie,nt i/                  44,t37            3'395 q    95
Working .Capital Increase                 2 319             178          5
Total Requiremekts                   -3,573                          TO7
8OuEces.                                   
Iroes Internal Cash Generation           i8,690           1,438
- fesss Debt Service                      14.906            1,147
Net Internal Cash Generation              3,78,4            291        t) 8
Borrowings,
Proposed Loan                          1,690              130          4
"Other Borrowings.                      3,24          ,,  286    -    8
auK Loan,  37258. 2 866                                               8Q0
Total Borrowings-                       4,62              3,282         92
Total Sources                           46,456            3,573        100
1/  Includes interest 4&ring construction.
During the investment period from 1988/89 to 1995/96J, the requiirement for
funds is estimated at Rs 46,456 million (US$3,573 million). Net internal
cash generation is expected to account for Rs 3,784 million (US$291  million)
representing 82 of the total requirements.  The remaining 922, amounting to
Rs 42,672 million (US$3,282 million) will be financed through borrovings
including ITCs9 share of the proposed loan, Rs '1,690million (US$90
million). Given past experience, it is expected that the financing
requirements will be adequately met in a timely mannebf/
4.15r   001 wilt be the recipient of the proposed loan of US$260 million and
will onlend the proceeds to GOK as per standard terms of central assistance
to 'arnataka.  GOK proposes to relend about US$130 million of the proceeds to
the Corporation at its normal interest rate for loans to KPC, which currently
iV 11.51.  00I will carry the fooeign exchange, interest rate and-guarantee
risks.  The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between 001 and KPC,
satisfactory to the Bank, specifying (a) an interest rate of not less than
11.5Z pa; and (b) a repayment term of 20 years including 5 years' grace, will
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
.                                            .      .                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-39-
Income Taxes
4.16    KPC is liable for income tax.  However, its investment program, the
accelerated depreciation allowed for tax purposes, and its past tax ldses
are such that tax relief is provided well beyond the period i)f the financial
projections. A tax equalisation reserve is, therefore, not necessary.
Forecast Financial Performance
4.17    KPC's projected financial statements for the period 1988/89 - 1995/96
and the assumptions on which these are based are presented in Annex 4.2. The
Corporation's projected operating results are summarized in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4:  KPC's PROJECTED OPERATING RESULTS
88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96
Generation (GWh)    9940  12847  13554  14272  15218  16731  19197  22322
Sales (GMh)         9552  12472  13116  13766  14652  16058  18366  21276
Ave. Revenue
(Paisa/kfh)        28.4  .29.1   30.7   32.2  38.1    43.4   56.6   67.7
Total
Revenue (Rs M)    2775   3682   3945   4564  5742    7157  10584  14603
Operating
Expenses (Rs M)   1858   2293   2786   3416  4235    5562   7892  11224
Operating
Income (Re M)      917   1389   1160   1148 \1507    1596   2692   3379
Net Income (Rs M)1/  253    362    344    341   419      502    838   1000
Rate of Return (Z)
As per Covenant2/  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0
Rate of Return(Z)-
Before Interest3/  9.0   11.8   10.0   51.0  9.9       7.2    8.8    8.4
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio      1.1.   1.7    1.3    1.2   1.f      1.2    1.3    1.2
Contri. to Invest-
ment Program (X)4/    5      37      8      2     3       0       8      5
1/ After Interest'.
2/ Income after interest as a percent of historically valued net fixed assets.
3/ Income before interest as a percent of historically valued average net
fixed assets.                                                   - :          +.-.
4/ Based on 3-year moving average.                      
The financial proJections are based on normal hydrologic conditions, loan
repayment terms of 20 years with 5 years' grace, and reflect tariff increases



-40-
driven by compliance with the required minimu 3Z rate of return after
interest (para 4.01). The tariff increases would be slight in the initial
years and more significant in the later years of the period. During the
period from 1988/89 to 1995/96, it is estimated that KPC's tariff would have
to be increased at an average annual rate of 14X in current terms, almost 81
in real terms given average projected inflation of about 6S per annum.
4.18    As noted in para 4.14, internal cash generation will finance
approximately 81 of total capital investment and working capital
requirements. However, the time profile of internal cash generation needs
clarification. The relatively good performance in 1989/90 is partly
attributable to GOIC's action in offsetting outstanding accounts between GOK,
KPC and KEB. Contribution to investments in the other years are low due to
the heavy investment taking place at that time (Annex 4.2) and the impact of
the heavy debt-service burden resulting from the practice of financing
investment almost exclusively through debt. As a consequence, the
debt/equity ratio is expected to remain on the high side at about 90/10 from
1988/89 to 1995/96. The bulk of the debt is owed to COR. GOK is now looking
into ways to correct this situation (para 4.12). The Corporation's projected
debt service coverage ratio is expected to remain abowe 1.1, an improvement
over the performance of the most recent years.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring.
4.19    Under the first Karnataka Power Project, KPC agreed to: (i) furnish
to the Dankt by December 31 of eath year, a report of [PC's forecast
operational and financial performance for the ensuing finaneial year,
specifying the t4tions that will be taken to strengthen the financial
position of KPC to enable it to comply with the financial covenants; (ii)
furnish its audited accounts together with the auditor's and AG's reports to
the Dank within seven months of the end of each financial year (para 4.05);
and (iii) take all measures necessary including adjustment of tariffs to
enable it to earn the minimum rate of return (after interest) of 31 per annum
(para 4.01). During negotiations, an understanding was reached that [PC
would continue to send to the Bank its forecast operational and financial
performance for the ensuing year by December 31 of each year. The other
agreements have been repeated under the proposed loan. Under the proposed
project, in addition to monitoring the above agreements and those under the
first Karnataka Power Project, the Bank will monitor closely the progress of
the committee in its efforts to rehabilitate the finances of [PC and KID
(para 4.12).



-41-
KARNATARA ELECTRICITY BOARD
Background
4.20    KEB's financial activities-are governed by the Electricity (Supply)
Act of 1948. The Act stipulates, among other things, the classification of
assets for depreciation purposes, audit procedures and the financial
performance criterion for the Board. The Act requires electricity entities
to earn a minimum return of 3Z after interest (para 4.01). KEB was a
profitable utility until 1984/85. However, KEB has incurred losses from
1985/86 owing to: the burden of interest on accumulated debt; losses
incurred in rural electrification; its failure to increase tariffs
sufficiently in a period of rising costs; insufficient power available for
sale; and high technical and non-technical losses. Consequently, under the
first Karnataka Power Project, several actions designed to complement K[E's
own initiatives -- e.g. in the areas of accounting systems (para 4.21),
internal audit (para 4.23), tariff measures (para 4.32) -- were agreed upon
with the Bank to assist the Board's financial recovery and thereafter improve
its financial viability. [SB has consistently increased its tariffs st an
average annual rate of 131, the latest of which was in May 1987 with a 161
increase. In addition to the tariff increase, the other actions sre
currently being implemented.  However, the severity of the recent drought in
Karnataka bas further weakened the financial position of [E8 and it is
estimated that in 1987/88 [EB's rate of return of net fixed assets will be at
its lowest level for more than a decade. A period of gradual financial
recovery is nee4ed, which will be closely monitored under the proposed
project, before KEB's financial position is restored. To this effect, GOK
recently established a committee that will make recommendations on the
actions that need to be taken to assist KEB's financial recovery (para 4.12).
To mitigate the impact of future drought conditions on [EB's finances, a
study to examine the feasibility of establishing a Hydroelectric
stabilization fund is being financed under the first Karnataka Power Project
(para 4.02). K[B'-s finances are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization
4.21    Under the Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN), GOI*
agreed to cause all SEBs to introduce a uniform Commercial Accounting System
(CAS). Accordingly, KRB introduced the CAS with the help of consultants in
1984/85, thus making it the first SEB in India to do so. The Board has had
about three full years operation under the CA8 and is currently compiling the
accounts for 1987/88 in accordance with the new system. Accounting staff
have been trained in the operation of the CAS and a special unit, headed by a
Deputy Controller of Accounts, has been set up for trouble shooting.
Initially, capitalization of interest during construction had been optional
under the CAS.  However, GOI has issued a notification to all 8EBE, including
KEB, requiring capitalization of interest during construction.



-42-
4.22    KID's finance function is headed by the Finance Member (para 2.10)
who i; a senior member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. A Pinancial
MAvisor/Chief Accounts Officer is responsible for day-to-day management of
financial operations; he, in turn, is assisted by three Controllers of
Accounts, one each for the finance, accounts and commercial functions, and
their supporting staff. The qualifications and experience of KIB's financial
staff is generally satisfactory. However, in order to: (a) facilitate the
smooth operation of the CAS; (b) define clearly the duties and
responsibilities of accounting and internal audit staff; and (c) assist KEB
in establishing a financial planning unit, the Board needs an organization
and management study of its Finance Wing. Under the first Karnataka Power
Project, GOK agreed to cause KEB to engage consu'ltants, by December 31, 1987,
to carry out this study. KIE subsequently requested that this study also
incorporate the objectives of the Fixed Asset Accounting Study (para 4.26)
which was agreed to, largely because it involved the same finance function.
KEB is currently finalizing the terms of reference for the combined
Organization/Management and Fixed Asset Accounting Study, which is now
expected to get underway by June 30, 1988.
Audit Arrangements
4.23    Internal Audit.  KEB has an internal audit unit headed by a
controller of Accounts who reports directly to the Finance Member. The
unit's responsibilities include audit of all monetary transactions,
I.e. capital expenditure, stores purchases, billing and collection, among
others. The Board on its own initiative engaged consultants to undertake
a study of its internal audit unit with a view to increasing its
effectiveness and consisterdy with the CAB.  The Bank has reviewed the
results and recommendatioas of the study and found them to be satisfactory.
The internal audit will be quicker and more effective once the implementation
of the study's recommendations, currently in progress, is completed. -
4.24    External Audit.  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
through his representative, the Accountant General of Karnataka (AG), is
responsible for audit of U8B's accounts. The AG has his staff resident at
KUB, engaged in concurrent audit of the Board's accounts. The quality of
the audit is satisfactory. The Board is required by the Electricity (Supply)
Act to finalize its accounts and have them audited within six months of the
end of the financial year. In the three years prior to 1981/82, KES had its
accounts audited in about eight to nine months. In 1981/82, however, owing
primarily to a dispute over workload tnorms for clerical staff, the
finalization of that year's accounts was substantially delayed, resulting in
delays in finalizing the accounts of subsequent years. The dispute over
workload norms has largely been resolved and UEB has made substantial
progress in clearing the backlog as evidenced by the recent completion of the
1986/87 audit. UEB is currently preparing the 1987/88 accounts. 00K agreed,
under the first Karnataka Power Project, to cause UEB to furnish to the Bank
its audited accounts, together with the Auditor's Report within nine months



-43-
of the end of the financial year under consideration beginning with 1986/87.
This covenant has been repeated for the proposed Loan.
4.25    In its audited acccunts for 1984/85, KEB was carrying about-Re 690
million in Inter-Unit Accounts, which were used to record transactions
between divisions until the accounts department received supporting
documentation. However, incomplete documentation has been a chronic problem
and many items in this account should have been reallocated to other
accounts.* KEB estimates that about 60% of the assets recorded in the
Inter-Unit Account have been used in capital works and therefore should have
been reallocated to work-in-progress or gross fixed assets. The balance is
believed to have been used for operation and maintenance purposes and hence
should have been expensed. KEB also carries a 'Stock Incidentals Account'
which amounted to Rs 135 million as of March 31, 1984. This account which
was used for maintenance works, needs to be expensed entirely. Accordingly,
KEB has expensed about Rs 51 z'illion in its accounts for 1984/85 leaving a
balance of Rs 84 million in its Stock Incidentals Account as of March 31,
1985.  The CAS requires all transactions to be charged directly to the
relevant head of account i.e., capital works, maintenance, etc. and
therefore suspense accounts would cease to exist once those mentioned above
are cleared. In order to ensure their prompt clearance in a manner which
wi-ll not jeopardise KEB's ability to meet the rate of return requirement in
future years (para 4.20), the Board would need to make the necessary
adjustments to its accounts for 1985/86. GOK agreed, under the first
Karnataka Power Project, to cause KRE to (a) make an extraordinary write-off
of the balance of the Stock Incidentals Account as of March 31, 1985 in the
accounts for 1985/86; and (b) clear, by March 31, b988, the balance of the
Inter-Unit Account as of March 31, 1985, by appropriately capitalizing or
expensing-the contents of the account.  KEB has written-off the balance of
Rs 84 million in its Stock Incidentals Account, and to date has reduced the
Inter-Unit Account to Rs 432 million. This amount is expected to be cleared
by 1988/89.
Fixed Asset Accounting
4.26    KEB's fixed asset registers reflect historical costs as required by
COI. These registers do not accurately reflect the value of the Board's
plant an4 equipment. The value of some assets is understated owing to
anomalies in recording (para 4.27). Under the first Karnataka Power Project,
the Board agreed to undertake a Fixed Asset Accounting study in order to
establish: (a) a physical inventory of its fixed assets; (b) appropriate
depreciation charges; and (c) fixed asset registers at the division level as
required by the CAS. Following REB discussions with the Bank, the Bank
agreed that the Fixed Asset Accounting study be combined with the
Organization and Management of'its Finance Wing (para 4.22) since both
studies involved the finance function. As noted in para 4.22, KRB is
currently finalizing the terms of reference for the combined study.



-44-
4.27   -The investments and intangibles accownt on KBB's balance sheet
previously included the cost of a submerged dam at the town of Hirebhaskar,
the book value of which amounted to Rs 19 million at the and of 1984/85. KID
in line with an agreement under the first Karnataka Power Project, has now
written-off the book value of the submerged dam.
Insurance
4.28    During construction KEB's assets are insured a8ainst risk of damage
due to fire, explosion, etc.  by contractors.  After commissioning, KEB holds
insurance policies which conform to acceptable utility standards in India.
Metering and Billin;
4.29    KEI  bills all of its consumers monthly except those in the domestic
-lighting and agricultural categories. Domestic lighting consumers are billed
bionthly and agricultural consumers having irrigation pumps above 10 HP are
billed quarterly. Those with pumps 10,. AP or below are billed semi-annually.
With the exception of this last group, 'all of the: Board's consumers are
supposed to be metered. However, o*ing partly to the lack of adequate funds,
many new connections that should,have had meters were made without them.
Furthermore, many faulty meters' were not replaced.  Imputing bills for these
connections is problematic and has resulted in a substantial understatement
of revenue.  To address -thi, the Board issued a directive that, beginning
April 1, 1985, no new coAsumers, who should be metered, will be connected              Y
without a meter.  At tit time, to meter all connections that should be
metered, t1e Board needed to procure and connect about 400,000 meters.  Under
the first Karnataka'Power Project, GOK agreed to cause Ml, by March 31, -
1989:  (a) to prpoide meters for' all connections that shoild be inetered; and
(b) reduce, an4"maintain thereafter the number of 'faulty meters at less than
1.5X of the total number of metered connections,, in accordance with a
monitorable"action program acceptable to the Bank.  Since 1985/86, in e*es
of 430,000'meters have been connected, however as of December 1987, th%
number of faulty meters exceeded 2.2X of the total number of metei`e4<-
connections.  The Bank will continue to monitor KEB's efforts in rducing the
number of faulty meters-to-less than 1.5ZTof metered connections/4
Accounts Receivable
4.30    In collecting against electricity bills, KUS is aided by the
Karn=taka Electricity Board (Recovery of dues) Act, 1976, a progressive piece
of legislation that enables KEI  to collect overdue ariears owed to it with
the assistance of COK revenue officials who ensure'. tecovery by attachment of,
the property of defauLters, iif necessary.  The Board's collection procedures
requireS all bills are to be paid within 15 daye of their presentation with
defaulting cone-mers paying penalties at the, Fate of 22 per month.  Chronic
defaulters are being systematically disconnected and reconnection charges are
high. With such measures, KmB has been able to maintain good control of
accounts receivale from the vast majority of its consumers. However,



-45-
collection from the public sector has still proved problematic. A limited
number of public sector debtors accounted for more than 752 of the Boards
receivables of Rs 1,142 million, representing 3.1 months' sales as of
March 31, 1987. The principal debtors includet 5 COX industrial
undertakings, 10 water supply boardst 12 municipalities and several village
authorities. A consequence of these arrears is that RI8B has itself been
unable to pay all that it owes to KPC (paras 4.08 and 4.31). GOK agreed,
under the first Karnataka Power Project, to cause the Board to collect, by
April 1, 1990, its accounts receivable from its principal debtors, as of
March 31, 1987, in accordance with a monitorable action program satisfactory
to the Bank. During negotiations, GOK presented a satisfactory action
program involving the adjustments of aecounts among GNK, KPC and KEB which
would reduce KEB's receivables from its principal debtors (as of March 31,
i987), and in turn would reduce KPC's receivables by 1989/90. However, a
siseable amount of KEB's receivables from its non-principal debtors,
totalling approximately Rs. 709 million remain in arrears. A high level
committee has recently been formed to address the receivables situation of
both KEB and KPC (para 4.12). The Bank will monitor KEB's receivable
situation and the progress of the committee closely under the proposed
project. To prevent KEB from accumulating excessive new receivables, OK
also agreed, under the first Karnataka Power Project, to cause KEB to
maintain its accounts receivable with respect to sales after March 31, 1987,
at no more than the equivalent of the preceding 2 months' sales. This
covenant has been repeated under the proposed Loan.
Accounts Payable
4.31    KIB's accounts payable to KPC, its main supplier of electricity,
stood at Rs 1,237 million as of March 31, 1987, almost exactly equal to the
amount owed to the Board by its principal debtors (para 4.30). As noted in
para 4.30, GOK has taken action to resolve the receivables of both KPC and
KEB, and clear the amount outstanding as of March 31, 1987 by 1989/90. In
order to ensure that the problem of high accounts payable on account of
electricity purchases from KPC, the converse of which are KPC's receivables,
does not re-occur (para 4.08), GOK also agreed to cause KEB to: (a) open a
revolving letter of creditt beginning October 1, 1981, in favour of KPC for
an amount equivalent to one month's estimated purchases from KPC; and
(b) clear any sums owed to KPC with respect to sales after April 1, 1987,
not covered by the letter of credit, within 30 days. KEB has made progress
in opening a revolving letter of credit which now covers about 801 of the
estimated electricity purchases from KPC. However, due to the severity of
the drought which created a significant revenue shortfall, and increased cost
of power purchases from neighboring states, KEB is currently unable to pay
off the 201 shortfall not covered by the letter of credit within the 30 days
timeframe. The proposed project will closely monitor KEB's efforts in
reducing its arrears.



-46-
Tariff,
4.32    As noted in para 4.09, KEB's tariffs are in effect set bt  GOK in the
light of recommendations of a Tariff Committee. Including a 271 tariff
increase in October 1985 and a 161 increase in May 1987, KEB's average tariff
has increased from 27.1 paisa/kWh in 1980/81 to an estimated 63.2 paisa/kMh
in 1987/88, an average annual increase of 131. Compliance with the
Electricity (Supply) Act would raise the average tariff in constant price
terms to over 88 paisa/kWh by 1995/96. Although the trend in the average
tariff is encouraging, structural aspects of KEB's tariffs also need to be
considered. A tariff study is needed, in particular,-to:
(a) analyse the economic costs (marginal costs) of supply to the various
different classes of consumer, taking into accoutt the voltage of
supply and the particular time profiles of demand;
(b)  examine thPe case for introducing time-of-day tariffs for large
consumersi particularly industrial -- at present, industrial
consumers face energy and demand charges which are independent of
time of use; and
(c) examine tariff/metering arrangements for agricultural consumers
including a cost benefit analysis of the policy whereby consumers
with pumps of 10 HP or less are offered unmetered supplies
(para 4.29).
A study to address these and other issues is to be carried oat under the
first Karnataka Power Project. As noted in para 4.09, a study is also
required' of KPC's tariffs and, given the interdependency of the tariff
studies and the Hydro Stabilization Fund studies (para 4.02), they will be
combined into one study. A steering group including representatives from
KEB, KPC and OOK will be formed to oversee the combined study.
Past Financial Performance
4.33    KIB's financial statements for the years 1981/82 - 1986/87 are given
in Annex 4.3 and summarized in Table-4.5.



-47-
Table 4.51 KIB's SummaEry Operating Results 1981/82 - 1986/87 i
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87
Energy Available to         7,896    8,112    8,234    9,213    9,619   1,015
KEB (GVh)
Losses (X)                   21.6     22.3      21.4     22.8     21.3    22.9
8nergy Sales (GWh)          6,193    6,299    6,475    7,114    7,573   7,831
Average Revenue/kvh (Paisa)  31.1     32.0      34.2     41.3     49.5    57.3
Total Revenue (Re M)        2,142    2,376    2,825   .3,601    4,328   5,134
Operating Expenses (Re M)   1,803    1,915    2,489    3,239    4,182   5,312
Operating Income (Rs M)       339      461       336      362      146    -178
Operating Ratio (Z)            84        81      .88       90       97      103
Net Income (Rs M) 1/          178      285       132      109     -267 *> -739
Rate of Return (X)
as per Covenant 2/          7.1     10.2       4.2      3.1     -6.8   -17.1
Rate of Return (X)
Before Interest 3/         16.9     21.7-    14.6      13.9      4.7    -4.3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio   1.5      2.1       1.4      0.9      0.4       0
Contribution to Investment
Program (X) 4/               61       28        15        3        5     -81
1/ After interest.
21  Income after interest as a percent of bistorically valued net fixed
assets.
31  Income before interest as a percent of histovically valued average
net fixed assets.
V/ Based on 3-year moving average.
4.34   XEB's.financial performance from 1981/82 to 1982/83 was satisfactory
but deteriorated significantly during 1983/84 to 1986/87.  In the period
1983/84 to 1986/87, REB had to purchase a much greater proportion of its
energy at high cost-from neighboring states, which resulted in the Board's
operating costs/kWh sold increasing by 75X during those years. During the
same period KEB's average revenue/kWh sold increased only by 50X 1/.
Consequently, the Board's operating ratio, which averaged about 831 during
1981/82-1982/83, deteriorated to an average of 95% during 1983/84 to 198$/86.
Similarly, unsatisfactory trends were exhibited by other financial
indicators:  return on,assets, debt service coverage and-internal cash
1/ -Tariff rates were on average incteased by 501 during this period but
the mis of consumption was adversely affected by disproportionate tbad
shedding of industrial and commercial consumers who pay the highest
rates.
.                                0~~~



-48-
generation. In 1986/87, KEB's return on net fized assets (after interest)
was -17X due largely to high interest charges, the impact of the recent
drought, and insufficient tariff to cover rising cost. To alleviate this
situation, under the first Karnataka Power Project, GOK agreed to:
(i) reduce the debt-service burden of KEB by lengthening the loan repayment
terms of all new loans to KEB; and (ii) assist KEB in recovering its,
receivables. With respect to the tariff, under the Electricity (Supply) Act,
COK can legislate higher tariff levels to enable KID to comply with the
financial covenant. The Bank will monitor closely GOK's action in
rehabilitating KEB's finances (para 4.12) and its compliance with the Bank's
financial covenants.
Present Financial Position
4.35    KEB's Balance Sheet (Budget) as of March 31, 1988 is presented in
Annex 4.4 and summarized in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: KEB's Balance Sheet (Budget), March 31, 1988
(Re Million)
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                     7,930
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                        2,001
Net Fixed Assets                                                   5,929
Work-in-Progress                                                   2,941
Total Fixed Assets                                               8,870
Investments & Intangibles                                             19
Inter Unit Accounts                                                  282
Current Assets                                                     3,267
12,438
Equity and Liabilities
Capital Contribution                                     363
General and Other Reserves                            -1,010
Total Equity                                                        -647
StMff Superannuation Fund                                            530
Security Deposits                                                  1,023
Long Term Debt                                                     7,417
Current Liabilities                                               4,115
Total Equity and Liabilities                                      12,438
KaD's  estimated rate of return (after interest) in 1987/88 is about -281 due
principally to the impact of the severe drought ad hi gh interest charges.
As a consequence of the accumulated losses incurred during the -last three
years, and the fact that 'KE has not received additional equity from COK



-49-
except at formation, its equity is estimated to be negative in 1987/88. Por
the same reasons, the Board's current ratio, debt-service coverage and
contribution to investment deteriorated to the lowest levels of the past
decade. Despite a 1OX average tariff increase and reduction in its
receivables of about Rs 790 million, KEB's substantial debt-service and its
revenue losses as a result of the drought continued to impede its financial
performance. O0K has recently formed a committee to address both KPC's and
RBB's financial difficulties (para 4.12).
Financial Recovery Program
4.36    The financial difficulties of REB are similar to those of KPC except
for their magnitude. As noted in para 4.35, it is estimated that in 1987/88,
its equity will be negative and its rate of return (after interest) will be
at its lowest in a decade. While the financial recovery period would
probably be somewhat longer than that of KPC, the actions needed to
rehabilitate its finances remain essentially the same of those required of
RPC (para 4.12).
Forecast Investment and Financing Plans
4.37    RIB's investment plan for the period 1988/89 to 1995/96 is presented
in Annex 4.3. The Board plans to invest about Rs 16.5 billion (US$1,269
million) over the period. About Rs 3.1 billion (US$239 million) will be
invested to counstruct 400 kV and 220 kV transmission lines and Rs 2.8 billion
(US$213 million) to erect related substations.  In addition, KEB plans to
invest Rs 4.1 billion (US$318 million) in distribution improvement and
development,  s 1.9 billion (U$144. million) in rural electrification
schemes, and the remainder Rs 4.6 billion (US$355 million) for non-Plan
projects.
4.38    REB's financing plan for the above investment program and increased
working capital requirements are summarized in Table 4.7.



Table 4.7:  KXB's Financing Plan 1988/89 - 1995/96'
Re' Million    MU$ Million   5-',
Reuirements
Capital Investment 1/                   19,456   '1,497                 83
Working Capital Increase                 440g               314         17
Total Requirements                  .3,S4         .     1,811
80urces
Gross Internal Sources 2/  .14,780                        1,137
-Lest._ Debt, Service                     109094             776
Net Internal Sources          ..4 ,686  ".                  361         20-
Borrowings
Proposed Loan                          1,690              130          7
O0K Loans                                               1,320         73
Total Borrowings                         18,856                         so__'
Total Sources                    .      23,542            1,811        100
I/ Includes interest during constructiqo.
, it  Includes internal cash generation, capittl contribution,' staff
:perennuPtson fund and security deposits.
During,the 1988/89 to 1995/96 period, "the total requirement for funds is
estimated at about Rs\'24 billion (US$1,811 million). Net internal sources
wouldaccount for 201 of'the total requirements.  The remaining 80X, would be'
financed though borrowings including KM's share of the propoeed loan.  It is
expected that tbh  financing requirement  will e adequately;met in a timely
manner, asbais been the practice in palt years.
4.39  /OI will be the recipient of the proposed loan of U  260 million and
will #ilena the proceeds:to OOK as pei'standard terms of central assistance
to Karnataka. OK proposes to relend.`about US$130 mi)ison ofAthe proceeds
to KXB at its normal interest rate fot loans to KEB, witch cutrently is
1l.SZ. Under the proposed loan, ONK .greed to onlend the proceeds to KmD at
an interest rate of not less than lliZ per annum with a repayment period of
20 year including 5 years' grace. 00K will"carry the foreign exchange,
interest ratehand guarantee risks.
Income Taxes
4.40   KRB is liable for income tax. Mowever, its investment program, the
.ac.c4elratdAdpreciAtion,allowed. for-taxputrposes, AndAit- past tax l2osses--, -
= > .e q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-               *      ,  *. -'-   * V



-51-
are such that tax relief is provided well beyond the period of financial
projections. A tax equalisation reserve is, therefore, not necessary.
Forecast Financial Performance
4.41    KEBls projected financial statements for the period 1988/89 - 1995/96
and assumptions on which these are based oe presented in Annex 4.4.  The
Board's projected operating results are gumarized in Table 4.8.
Table 4.8: KEB's Projected Operating Results
88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96
Electricity
Available (GWh)        13717  16672  17316  17966  18852  20258  23116  26026
Electricity Sales
(GWh)       10905  13254  13766  14373  15082  16308  18608  20951
Ave. Revenue/O4h-
(Paisa)       68.6   68.6   71.3   78.2   91.3  104.3  127.1  153.5
Operating                               7
Revenue (Rs M)        8268   9965  10715  12191  14771  18099  24879  33552
Operating
Expenses (Rs M)       8016   9215  10022  11347  13605  16648  23219  31133
Operating
Income (Re N)          252    750    693  -845   1166   1451   1660   2419
Net Income (as M) 1/    -646    423    264    290    347    382    434    526
Rate of Return (Z)
as per Covenant 2/   -11.6    6.7    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Rate of Return (2)
Before Interest 3/     3.3    8.0    6.4    7.1    8.8   10.1   10.1   14.2
Equity - Z of
Debt/Equity
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio         0.4    2.7    1.5    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.3    1.2
Current Ratio
Contribution to
Investment
Progra  (X) 4/         -48      32      5      3       4     28     32      33
1/ After interest
2/ Income after interest as a percent of historically valued net fixed assets.
3/ Income before interest as a percent of historically valued average net
fixed assets.
4/ Based on 3-year moving average



-52-
The projections are based on projected KPC sales (para 4.17), and? loan
repayment period of 20 years with 5 years' grace, and future tariff increases
driven by compliance with the requirement to earn a minimum 32 rate of
return. Assuming normal hydrologic conditions, to satisfy the minimum 32
rate of return, K[B's tariffs are expected to be revised after 1989/90 at
an average annual rate of about 152 in current terms, or about 92 per annum
in real terms assuming an average projected inflation rate of 62.
4.42    KEB's gross fixed assets in operation are projected to increase from
Rs 9 billion in 1988/89 to Re 23 billion in 1995/96, representing an increase
of about 1602. Over the same period, the rate of return (before interest) on
historically valued assets will average 8.52, and internal cash generation as
a percentage of its investment program will average 20%. The capital
structure is expected to improve from a negative equity of Rs 1,263 million
in 1988/89 to a positive position of R,- 1,716 million in 1995/96. The
Board's projected debt service coverage ratio is estimated to improve from
0.4 in 1988/89 to 1.2 in 1995/96. The good financial performance projected
in 1989/90 is in part due to GOK's plan of offsetting accounts among GOK, KPC
and KERB (para 4.30) during the year. GOK along with [PC and KEB have formed
a committee to study ways to rehabilitate the finances of both KPC and KEB
(para 4.12). The Bank will monitor closely the progress of the committee.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring
4.43    Under the first Karnataka Power Project, GOK agreed to cause KEB to:
(i) furnish to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a report of KEB's
forecast operational and financial performance for the ensuing financial
year, specifying the actions that will be taken to strengthen the financial
position of [EB to enable it to comply with the financial covenants; (ii)
furnish its audited accounts together with the auditor's and AG's reports to
the Bank within nine months of the end of each financial year (para 4.24);
and (iii) take all measures necessary including adjustment of tariffs to earn
a minimum rate of return (after interest) of 32 per annum (para 4.20).
During negotiations, an understanding was reached that [EB would continue to
send to the Bank forecast operational and financial performance £or the
ensuing year by December 31 of each year. The other agreements have been
repeated under the proposed loan. Under the proposed project, aside from
monitoring the above agreements and those under the first Karnataka Power
Project, the Bank will monitor closely the progress of the committee in its
efforts to rehabilitate the finances of KPC and KEB (para 4.12).



-53-
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECOOMIC ANALYSIS
Least Cost Analysis
5.01    The principal components of the proposed Project are the STES, to be
implemented by KPC, and the transmission and distribution program to be
implemented by KEB. During project preparation, KPC and CEA carried out
studies to determine the optimum installed capacity of the Sharavati Tailrace
scheme, based on estimates of the cost of alternative generation in the
Southern Region. These studies indicate that the appropriate installed
capacity is 240 MW (i.e. 4 x 60 MW) as proposed. In addition, CIA has
prepared a least cost system expansion plan for the Southern Region, based on
the load forecast given in Annex 1.2. The earliest feasible implementation
of the STRS forms an integral part of the least-cost plan. The assumptions
used, including the load forecast, and the results of the optimization
modelling have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. With regard
to the transmission and distribution components, an appropriate range of
options (involving different configurations, voltage levels and timing) were
analyzed with respect to capital costs, operating costs and losses, and the
Bank is satisfied that the transmission and distribution program chosen
constitutes part of the least cost development of power supply to Karnataka
and the Southern Region.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.02    Benefits of the components in the proposed Project cannot readily be
separated from those of other investments in generation, transmission and
distribution. Therefore, having established that these form part of the
least cost expansion plan for the Southern Region, it is appropriate to carry
out a cost-benefit analysis of the plan as a whole in order to ensure that
the expansion envisaged is desirable.  For this purpose, a "time-slice" of
the Southern Region's investment program has been analyzed. Capital costs of
the investment program (covering generation, transmission and distribution)
together with incremental operating and fuel costs are given in Annex 5.1.
The benefits of the investment program relate mainly to the incremental
consumption which it makes possible.l/ A minimum measure of benefit, ignoring
consumer surplus, can be derived from incremental sales revenue.  In the
absence of adequate class-specific consumption conversion factors, the
standard conversion factor (estimated to be 0.8) has been applied to convert
1/ The program may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the
cost of meeting existing demand, particularly through fuel savings.
However, the energy deficit is such that by far the greater part of the
output available from-plants in this program will lead to increased sales.
Fuel savings resulting from this program are likely to be small and this
element of the benefits has therefore been ignored.
Ir



-54-
financial revenue into a measure of economic benefit. On this basis the
minimum internal economic rate of return achieved by the Southern Region
program is 4X.
5.03    However, this estimate is more a reflection of the level of tariffs
than of the economic merit of the investment program.  The estimated minimum
economic rate of return, 41 is less than the established opportunity cost of
capital, and this is indicative of the fact that retail tariffs in the
Southern Region, particularly agricultural tariffs, are substantially less
than LRMC (para 1.12). In reality, the program will confer benefits in
excess of those described above. There will be consumer surplus associated
with the incremental consumption; consumers' reactions to the severe
shortages of power experienced at present, and expected for the foreseeable
future, suggest that willingness to pay substantially exceeds present tariff
levels. In addition there will typically be other external benefits.
5.04    In order to derive a more realistic internal economic rate of return,
it is useful to estimate a measure of consumer surplus, at least for
industrial and agricultural consumers. Their willingness to pay will be
related to the costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping respectively. Many
consumers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
supply is not available. Annex 5.1 presents an estimate of diesel
autogeneration costs at Rs 1.88/kUh. It wouldt however, be unreasonable to
assume that all industrial consumers would be willing to pay this price for
the whole of their consumption from the public supply system. Therefore, as
a conservative measure, it has been assumed that the consumer surplus
attributable to incremental sales can be derived from an average of the cost
of autogeneration and the prevailing tariff. Similarly, for agricultural
consumers the equivalent cost of diesel pumping has been estimated at
Rs 2.21lkVh and average willingness to pay has been estimated at halfway
between the average agricultural tariff and this alternative cost. This more
realistic measure of the benefit of consumption results in an internal
economic rate of return of 121 for the Southern Region. However, it must
again be stressed that this represents a lower bound estimate as domestic
consumer surplus and other external benefits, have still not been included.
Justification for Bank Involvement
5.05    This project presents the Bank with an opportunity to support GOI's
and GOK's efforts (para 3.05) to:
(a)  alleviate power shortages in the Southern Region by exploiting
indigenous hydra resources; and
(b)  augment transmission and distribution capacity, thereby reducing
system losses aMd improving service quality.
In addition it is an opportunity for the Bank to:



-55-
(a) introduce improved tools and work methods in relation to construction
and maintenance of the transmistion and distribution systems;
(b) introduce new technologies, e.g. mobile transformers, to reduce
distribution costs;
(c)  help Km  to respond more quickly and more effectively to network
disturbances through the installation of a SCADA system; and
(d) continue to effect institutional and financial improvements, in
-      relation to both KPC and KEB, started under the first Karnataka Power
Project.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMEATION
Agreements
6.01    During negotiations, it was agreed that the conclusion of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. between GOK and KPC, satisfactory to the Bank,
specifying:  (a) an intetest rate of not less than 11.5X per annum; and (b) a
repayment term of 20 yeazs including 5 years' grace, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Losn (pats 4.15).
6.02    During negotiations, GOK agreed to onlend the proceeds of the loan
applicable to KEB at an interest rate of not less than 11.5 per annum, with
a repayment term of 20 years including 5 years' grace (para 4.39).
6.03    During negotiations, GOX agreed to cause KXB to:
(a) engage the services of an electric utility or consulting firm by
December 31, 1988, under terms of reference satisfactory t.o the Bank,
to review KEB's work planning and procedures, introduce new tools and
equipment' and train KID's staff in their use (para 2.15); -- -
(b) complete 'the detailed route surveys and make formal application for
DOW clearance for all transmission lines in the proposed project
requiring such clearance, by December 31, 1988 (para 3.37);
(c) send to the Bank KEB's audited accounts together with the Auditor's
Report within nine months of the end of the financial year under
consideration beginning with 1986187 (para 4.24);
(d) collect, by April 1, 1990, its accounts receivable from its principal
debtors, as of March 31, 1987, in accordance with a monitorable
action program satisfactory to the Bank (pars 4.30);



-56-
(e)  maintain its accounts receivable, with respect to sales after March
31, 1987, at no more than the equivalent of the preceding 2 months'
sales (para 4.30);            -
(f)  clear any sums.,owed to KPC with respect to sales after April 1, 1987,
not covered by a letter of credit, within 30 days (para 4.31); and
(g)  take all measures necessary to ensure that the Board shall in each
financial year eatn a rate of return, after interest, of at least 3X
(para 4.43). 
6.04    During negotiations, KPC agreed tos
(a)  present to-the Bank a satisfactory plan for repairing the Talakalale
dam and 'sign a contract.for the repair with a qualified firm,
satisfactory to the Bank, by October 31, 1989 (para 3.19);
(b)  present to the Bank, no later than one year before the expected
completion date of thSe structures a comprehensive maintenance program
that,will ensure the continued safety of the STES dam and associated
structures (para 3.29);
(c)  send its audited accounts together with the Auditor's and Accountant
General's reports to the Bank within seven months of the end of each
financial year (para 4.05); and
(d) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Corporation shall in
each financial year earn a rate of return, after interest,- of at
least 3Z (para 4.19).                                        '
6.05    Understandings regarding the following items were reached'during
negotiations?
(a) KEB will send to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a report of
its forecast operational and financial performanee for the ensuing
financial'year, specifying the actions that will be taken to fulfill
financial covenants (para 4.43); and
(b)  KPC will send to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a report of
its forecast operational and financial performance for the ensuing
financial year, specifying the actions that will be taken to fulfill
financial covenants (para 4.19).
Recommendation
6.06    The proposed Project is suitable for a Sank loan of US$260 million
equivalent.



S-e.tricity Geuneration. Mae and Pattern of "nrn Caugowtio, -,8n bnds,
ODescrltio"             1950/5  1955/56  1960/61 19W     l98/69  1970/74 1978W79 19MODE 19W/81 t951/82  MUSE  19W/SI 198U8S  1959SI  194/
Installed Capcit1 (t)   1.835   2.886   46S3   9.02?   12.957  16.664  26.6E0  2a64u8  30.214  32.34S  35.363  3339J   42.535   46.269   4g.257
,CItlllitina, 
61ectricity Geerted      S,US   9.662  16.n5   32.990   47.433   6.609  102.523. 104.627  110.621  122.101  130.264 1.177 156.59   170.322  1811000
(Wb)
leceticity Cosmption   4.93   7.959   13.953  26.735   37?352  50.246  7M.23  78124  62,473  90.245  9.SOP 102344 114.068  t23.209    "a
*r  (Wih)(UStllitiea easy)
. Pe  Capita G_ ratios   20.60   30.90   U.90   73.61    97.82  126.26  159.60  160.00  166.20  175.896  18.65  193.57  216.61   235.18           A
CwbAtilLt"ia nasy) 
Per Capita Cosaumption    12.30   20.70   31.90   53.70    7O.60   S7.15  130.48  119.40  123.70  130.00  134.67  141.33  154.27   163.26    SI
Wib) (Utilities emayl
Coaamtiea Pattern (|1- )
Domestic Light 4         12.40   11.70   10.70    8.80      6.S0    9.20   9.80    10.76  11.28    11.57   12.65  12.93    13.59    13.89    NA 
commercial Light &        6.90    6.60    6.10    6.20      5.70    6.00   5.60      5.96   5.95      5*76    6.12   6.41      6.08     6.30    NA
al lcwer
Indstrial PC&r           63.70   66.90   69.40   70.60    69.30   64.40  61.35    L861  58.75    58.80   53.41  55.79    55.25    54.15    NA
Raa.ay/VTictlon           6.90    5.10    3.30    4#.I0     340    3.00   2.83       2.95   2.82      2.78    2.75   2.0S      2.52     2.54    N
*4ricultur lms            4.30    4.00    9.30  ?.10        9.30   12.60  15.56    17.3   17.48    16.84   1.64  17.81    18.38    19.20    PA
Public Vater Vorha.
Smage lupig Public
Ligbtihs 6 Otes         .SD    5.50      3.90    3.30    3.90    4.60   4.l6       4424    4.25    4.43    4.*41   4.1t      4.02     4.02    NA
Total                     100.00        1a0o0  100.00O       t   O.OO 100.00 t00.00 t00.00    100.00 i o 0.OD 0      0.00  100.00   10.00    NA
N - leot bilab le
Source: CM a4rch 195                    ll
.   .                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
BA,           :                       '                  ,       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it



SECOD ARNMTAKA PqwER PROJECT
Forecast of Realonal tooer Deamnd In Indt1. 19M7u8s  - 1996/97
1987/88     188/8        IseSfO       1990/91     19t1,92      t92f93      1993J94      1994f95    19Mst16    199f97
Northern                 67.538      74,073      18t.086       " 6.216     98.178      *0.055       118.945      130.953    *44.199    158.813
Western                  64,S38      70 416        76;678      63.744     91.47         99.913      109.148      119.24S   tl0.M        142.365
Southern                56.817       83.943       e9.29        75.920      83.186-      91.160       99.907      109,50S    120.038    131.697
EaStern                  32,440      35.650       38.869       42.631      47,194       52.021       57.366       53,267     89.646      77.122
North-Eastern             2.712       3,038         3.389       3.744       '4,135       4.563        5.03S        5.550      8.118       6.744
Andomn nd                    30          33            37          41          46        '52             'GS8         5S         73          82
Nicobar Island6                                                                                                              9.s       .24
Lakehadep3                                       4                  5                        6                                 9.24
All,Indla (TOTAL)     ,226*076      247,157      209,3.79     295.03      324.214      35S.770      390.466      428.613    470.573    516.733
Northern                 13,179      14.455        15.025      13.415       1.167        21,098      23,227       25,576     26.187    31.027
Western                 11. 245     112.273       1t.459       14.701       1860Sl      17,542        19.165      20.938     22.879    25.003   S
Southern                 10.620     '1l,634       1i.40S       1.676,       14.982      16,414       17.988.      19.711     21.603    23.677   '
Eastern                  S,640       5 ,196         6.?S7       7.442   L   8.202        9.043        9.974       11,006     12.147    13.*S r
North-Eastern               599         667           740         614         605          983         t.080       1,16S      1.302      1.428
Andeman  nd                   0           9            10         1i            12          14            16          18       20.2       22.6
Nicobar Islands
Iakehauhwep             >.                2             2           2            3           3 ..J   ___               4       4.4        5.02
All India (TOTAL)       41,293       45.136       49.27        54.060      59.319       65,097       71.451       78.438     86.123    94.576
Sourias  CEA.JJuly  96?                                                                         --
~0
C~;,.



'N
>\   -                        ~~~~~~~~-59.
Annex 1.3
IDI&
SECOND AN?I  03PRJC
Pr        a Credt to Idin Power Betgr lMarcb 31. 1988)
Approval Closing    Loan  Abount
( K8*illion Eulv.)
India      Piret DVC - Boliro - Roger            23   4/50       2/W      18.50      16,72    Complete
Indio      Second DVC - Kaithon --Panchot        72    1/53      6/58     19.50      10.50     Complete
Taft       Trombey Poer                         106   11/54      9/66     16.20      1345S    Complete
TS tecond Trosmbey                              164    5/57      9/66      9.80       9.66     Completec'
Indi.      ThI4 PVC - Durgapur                  203    7/58      6165     23.00      22.00     Complete
Iadi#      soye PoweM                           223    4/59      4165     25.00      18?70    Complete
lAdle      Power Tranudedson                    416    6/65     12/70     70.00      50.00    Complote °
Indad      Second totbegudem Powa              J417   6165      12170     14.00      13.97    Complete
ots,       Third Trombsy Therml Power          1549    4/78     12/84    105.00     105.00     Complete
India      Isam dam Thermal Power (*)          1648    1/79      618,   50.00        45.15    Complete
India      Par¢   e Thermal Power (*)        ' 1887    6180     12/8V     25.00       0.00
tndia      Second Rsmagnadam Threml Power 1*) 2076   12/81       6/88    300.00    -184.24
India      Third Rural Blectrlflietion         2165   6/82       6/88    304.50     271.77
adlds      Upper lSdravati Vydro               2278    5/83      6191    156.40  -   0.39
IndIa      Centr:l Power Traenmisa0 (*)        2283    5183      3/89    250.70      19.79
ndia      Indinr 8crovar-                      2416    5164      6/92    157.40       4.82
ldie       Second aerake Thermal Power (C)   2442   6164        12/91    300.80      30.71
Tate       Pouib Trombey Thermal Power         2452   6/84       6/90    135.40      64.32
ladli      Chandrapr Thermal Power. 2544   5185                 12/92    300.00      45.25
tadis      Rihad Power Tsranmision ()          2555    5185     12/89    250.00      85.36
tadle      Kerala State Power                  2582   6/85       9/91    176.00       1.81
IndIa      Combwaed Cycle (*)                  2674   4/86      12/91    485.00      55.93  -
Indie      Karnateha Power                     2827    6/87     12195    330.00
tadia      Natioaal Capital Power Supply (C)   2864    6/87      6/95    485.00
ladle      Tleboer Tbermal PoTr ()             2845    6/87      3/96- 3.CCLD00
Total                            -                        4,384.20
(Total  oans .for WMPC Projects)                         (2,511.50)
-~~                                             -
ladle      Wourth PVC - Durgcpur                 19    2/62     12/69     21.88      19.88     Complete
tadle      Second Roy"e Power                    24    $/62      9170     21.10      21.10     Complete
ladl,      Kotbagudem POW?                       3?    5/63     12/68     24,13      24.13     Complete
tadse      Beas Uquipmant                        89    6/U       6/74     26.59      26,32     Complete
tndia      second Powr Tranumisso               242   4/71       3/77     75.00      72.93     CoMplele
lTadl     -Third-fPower trau dsiDai             377    3/73      9/78     85.00      85o00     Completet
tadia      Rural Blectriflcetion                572   t/75      12/80     57 ¢00     57*00     Complete
ladl       bourth Power TramdIssIo              604    1/76      6/83    150.00     149.87     CompletO
India      Sagrouli Therml Power (C)            685    3177      6/64    150.00     150.00     Complete
ladl       Korbe Therml Povwer (*)               93    478       3/86    200.00     199.92    Complete
Inia      Rsmagundsa Thermal Power (*)          874    1/79      6/87    100.00     200.00     Complete
taudl      $econd Rural Blectrifiction          911    5/79      3/84    175.00     171.75     Cotplete
India      Second Singrauli Therma Power (C) ^102    5/80        3/88    300.00     280J5
India       arIb Thermal Powr (C)             :/1053   6/80     12/88   225.00      214.18
Indis      Secon Korba Thermol Power (*)      /1172   7/81 6   12(89    400.00      244.86
adle       Uppr Snd*eve tydro                  1356  ''5/83      6/91  " 170.00      49.62
Inda       Wifira Seroar                      8P020    5/84      6/92    129.80       0.56
ladls     Indira Barovyr                       1613    5/86      6/92     isLZA          -
Totfl-                                                   2,423.70
(Total Credlts for 10PC Projects)                . -    (1,475*00)  -
M() 1110 Projects



U~~ONDKMNDIA~
Orgonhaatlon choit o~ Kamotako P~r Cospo~aonFMtKPCo
conuM~~~~                                           Comwom
pk
Pk=            Hycho      ~~~~ThemW
?           ,    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
WPM; d                  ..&                                    o a .;t-
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V* CliI  . Jt*4:  L                      2k
*e  *   Camm_ ?         b'      .    C attll               .    Gallm_--                              I~
CC                                      .                   ,     .       
.,          jt              .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



-61-                         nx .
-|g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:::
- -Al] 1 W ' X ) - '~~~~~~~~~~
*;0 IJ<



j.)
-62-                            ANNEX 3.1
Page I of 7
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
I. KPC Component
Sharavatii Tailrace Hydroelectric Scheme
Principal Features
1.     T1e main features of the Sharavathi Tailrace Hydroelectric Scheme
(STRS) are,as follows:
Average Flow                                186.3 cu.m/s
Reservoir Storage (full supply levei)       156 million cu.m
Arei at FSL                                   7.11 sq.kmn-
Type of Dam                            ,Center:  Concrete Gravity
-Lateral Dykes:  Homogeneous
aplled Fill with Concrete
Out-off
Sadsdle Dam:  Homogeneous
Rolled Fill with Concrete
Cut-off
KNxmium Dam Height over Foundation            0.O0 m'
Crest Length
Total Dam plus Saddle Dam                  736 m
Spillway                                   141,m
Non-overflow Section                       133 m
Power Dam                                  aO, m
Earth Dqkes                             -172;.,m,             ','
Saddle'-am                                 190 ?
Type of-Spillway                       C Gated Overflow with Flip Bucket
Number of Radial, gates                               8
Size of Gates                                    15 m   1 2i m
Design Flood (Routed)                              9,769 cu.m/s
Probable Nazimum Flood (PMF) Inflow               10,230 cu.m/s
Number of Penstocks                                   4
Diameter of Penstocks                                5.60 m
lumber of Generating Units                            4
Capacity of Generating Units, each                    60 MN
Total Installed Capacity                             240 NW
Type of Turbines                                Vertical Francis
Power Flow, Continuous                              176.00 cu.m/s
Power Flow per Unit at Full Load                    147.25 cu.m/s
Peaking Capability                                  240 MW
Average Annual Load Factor         3' 30S
Annual Gross Generation, Firm                       622 GWh
Transmission Link to Talaguppa Subt.                 38 km of douWle
circuit 220 kV
line



-63-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 7
Power Development of the Sharavathi River
2.      The proposed STRS would harness the head still available (51.4 m)
in the Sharavathi River downstream of the existing 890 MS Sharavathi
Hydropower station. The STRS power units would use the tail water releases
from the Sharavathi hydropower station plus the yield from the small catch-
ment area downstream of this power station. IBRD Map No. 20893 shows the
general location of the STRS and the existing reservoirs and hydropower
stations in the Sharavathi river valley. Multi-annual river regulation is
provided upstream of the Sharavathi hydropower station by the 4,435 million
cu.m Linganamakki reservoir. A 130 million cu.m reservoir at Talakalale acts
as a balancing reservoir between the Linganamakki reservoir and the surge
tanks of the Sharavathi hydropower station.
Geology
3.     The dam-site exploration has been thorough and reveals satisfactory
foundation conditions for the dam and powerhouse. The foundation consists
of compact hornblend schist, which is exposed at the river bed, and with
overburden at the flanks reaching a thickness of about 30 m. The schist
permeability is negligible while that of the flanks' overburden is low, of
the order of 0.00001 cm/s. Consolidation grouting is expected to be required
as well as a grout curtain to ensure watertightness of the dam foundation.
Th reservoir bedrock is entirely in hard stable granite and no leakage from
the-reservoir is expected. The proposed STRS is located in a zone of
moderate-seismic activity for which the Indian Standard (IS) Code prescribes
a horizontal seismic ground acceleration of 0.12 g (horizontal) and 0.06 g
(vertical). These are considered adequate in view of the rather moderate
height of the proposed dam (60 m) for which additional provisions for
reservoir-induced earthquakes are not required.
Hydrology
4.      Rainfall data from 12 rain gauging station both in and around the
catchment area have been used to determine the long-term annual yield at the
STRS damsite. Some of these rain gauging stations have rainfall data from
as early as 1895. Inflow data into the Linganamakki reservoir are available
since 1965 and prior to the commissioning of this reservoir and since 1945,
from Kargal Anicut, the intake for the 120 MW Mohandas Gandhi Hydropower
Station located downstream of Jog Falls. Long-term yields for the 35-year
(1945 to 1980) period were worked out by multivariateWcorrelation between
rainfall and run-off for the monsoon months on the basis of the Linganamakki
reservoir operation from 1965 onwards. The resulting long-term yield is 5875
million m3 per annum on average (186.3 cu.m/s). However, on the basis of
operation studies for the existing generating stations and reservoirs on the
Sharavathi river, and the proposed STRS for a 20-year cycle - 1960 to 1980 -
the stream flow usable for firm power generation at STRS would be 176 cu.m/s.
(Annual firm power gross generation would be 622 GWh and net power supply to



-64-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 7
the Karnataka power system would be 619 GWh). The unregulated streamflow
could produce on average 33 GWh per year of secondary energy at the STRS.
5.      During the planning of the existing Sharavathi hydroelectric station
the design flood for the spillway at the Linganamakki dam (which controls
901 of the total cachment area at the 8TR8) was assessed by the
hydrometereological method at a Probable NMaimum Flood (P1W) of 14,368
cu.m/s. The maximum routed flood is 7,539 cu.m/s. is thus computed at 10,230
cu.m/s. The inflo peak into the STRS reservoir is 10,230 cu.m/s. This is
computed by adding the peaks of the routed flood, the flood from the
Talakalale reservoir and the flood from the free catchment of the STRS dam.
To check the design, this flow was routed thiough the STRS reservoir with one
of the spillway gates inoperative. In addition, a further check was made with
the extreme condition of two gates inoperative and with a flood equivalent to
the routed PMF, to ensure that the dam would not be overtopped. Energy
dissipation would be provided at the tip of the spillway by a conventional
flip bucket arrangement.
Sediments
6.      The catchment area is well covered by forest which are subject to
extensive conservation measures. Sedimentation is therefore not expected
to cause difficulties in project operation or to shorten significantly the
economic life of the proposed hydrcpower scheme.
Installed Capacity
7.      The major hydroelectric stations feeding the Karnataka power system
are designed for annual load factors in excess of 601. Other hydroelectric
stations have limited storage capacity or power generation is conditioned
by water use for irrigation purposes. the power system is thus considerably
short of peaking capacity and load shedding must be applied during peaking
periods. The STRS is ideally suited to furnish peaking capacity since the
available stream flow is fully regulated upstream and since the headrace
conduits would be extremely short. Optimization studies have confirmed that
the optimum installed capacity is about 240 SW for discount rates between 8X
and 122 and valuing the benefits in terms of costs avoided from combustion
turbines of equivalent rating burning light distillate priced at the interna-
tional level.
B. The Talakalale Dam
8.      The Talakalale dam, completed in 1964, is a 60 m-high gravity dam
built in masonry, partly with red cement mortar (cement, sand, and brick
powder) and partly with lime-surkhi mortar (burned brick powder ground with
hydrated lime). The dam holds a balancing reservoir (130/ million/ m3
capacity) between the Linganamakki reservoir and the intake structure of the
Sharavathi power station. It is a crucial component of the existing 900 KW



-65-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 7
hydroelectric plant, which is the main source of power for the State of
Karnataka. Since its completion, heavy seepage has occurred through the body
of the dam with leaching of the mortar, particularly of its lime constituent.
Although groutipg was resorted to on several occasions to reduce the seepage,
the treatment hoe only had temporary results and seepage has been steadily
inereasing, reaching in May 1987, about 250 liters per second. Fear for the
stability of the structure prompted Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC) to
buttress the dam with an earthen embankment on the downstream face of the
dam. This embankment, equipped with a filter, was completed in 1979.
9.      In 1986, an expert in geotechnics visited the dam on behalf of the
Bank to evaluate its condition. He concluded that the seepage was a poten-
tial threat to the safety of the structures and had to be controlled. The
possible technical options for doing this were:
(a) grouting of the dam and foundation -
estimated cost US$8-10 million;
(b) placing impermeable membrane on the upstream face of the dam -
estimated cost, if done with the reservoir filled, US$40 million;
If done with the reservoir empty, US$21 million.
The expert cautioned that it was difficult to predict if grouting would be
successful and that the best expertise in the field should be used to inves-
tigate and design this procedure. The next option would be placing an imper-
meable membrane with the reservoir filled since draining the reservoir would
cost the economy over US$200 million per year (using the cost of the energy
not generated and ignoring the true opportunities cost of the energy). With
these options in view, the mission presented KPC with draft terms of
reference for consultants to do detailed studies of the condition of the dam,
design a procedure for its repair and supervise the implementation of the
work.
10.    The first Karnataka Power Project provides funds for KPC to employ
the consultants and, during negotiations, KPC gave an undertaking to initiate
the study by July 1, 1987. A civil engineering consultant inspected the dam
on behalf of the Bank on May 19, 1987, and found that the structure is in
poor  ondition and concluded that if no proper treatment is done, it may
eventually collapse with catastrophic consequences for the economy of
Karnataka and, possibly, with heavy loss of lives (about 10,000 people live
downstream of the dam). The condition of the dam at this time was as
follows:
(a) heavy water seepage through the body of the dam;
(b) serious leaching of the lime in the mortarl



-66-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 7
(c) no apparent cracks in the drainage gallery or in the dam crest
(this suggests that so far there has been no significant
settlement of the foundation);
(d) a sinkhole had developed on the second berm of the embankment;
and
(e) downstream of this sinkhole, the sound of the rushing water
underneath could be heard,
11.     After reviewing the condition of the dam, the consultant suggested
that the terms of reference proposed by the geotechnic expert should be
epanded to include the sinking of at least two exploratory pits on the
embankment to ascertain the condition of this structure. In addition, he
suggested that surveying benchmarks should be established on the crest of the
dam, on the embankment, and on the abutments to monitor movements of these
structures.
Present situation
12.     The most recent mission found that after the Bank's last visit in
May, KPC arranged for the Indian Navy to send divers down along the face of
the dam to plot the location of visible holes and to plug as many as=possible
with lead wool and epoxy mortar. Preliminary measurements indicate that this
treatment reduced the seepage by one-third. Although plugging, the visible
holes by itself will not lead to a satisfactory solution, the'reduction in
flow increases the likelihood that a well designed grouting program will be
successful in controlling the seepage. The misoion believes that although
failure of the dam or the embankment does not appear to be imminent, there is
enough uncertainty about the condition, especially of the earth-fill
embankment, to require prompt hiring of the consultants to investigate the
problem.
. . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-67-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 7
13.    KPC has agreed to hire the consultants and has evaluated proposals
from three consulting firms. The proposed schedule for further action is as
follows:
Action                                              Date
1.  Award of contract by KPC                            June 5, 1988
2.  Start of work by consultants                        July 1, 1988
a) Initiating report by consultants                August 1, 1988
b) Submission of draft report and draft tender   , December 14, 1988
c) KPC's comments                                  February 2, 1989
d) Receipt of draft report and draft tender        March 2, 1989
by Bank
e) Clearance of draft-report and draft tender,    March 31, 1989
by Bank
3.  Receipt of consultant's final report and            May 31, 1989
bid documents by KPC
4.  Receipt of final *eport and bid documents           June 30, 1989
by Bank
5.  Issue of bid documents                              May 31, 1989
6.  Bid opening                                         July 1989
7. Award of contract,                            =      Detober 1989
8. Start of work on *emedial measures                   Noveg*ber 1989
.   . ~ ~ LA    . .w
, '\z' ~II. K8BB CkMPinfT
SaTB8Transmission Linp and  einforcement of Trunk T1ansmission in Karnataka
14.    The STRS power switchyard would be linked with the Karnataka
power system by means of a 38 km double circuit 220 kV transmission line.
The transmission line would terminate at a new 220/400 kV-substation
to be established by KEB at Talaguppa. KEB is currently building a
double-circuit 400 kV transmission line from Talaguppa to Shimoga (to be
operated initially at 220 kV). This line is necessary to relieve the
overloaded transmission lines from the existing Sharavathi power station
to Bangalore.  Sharavathi is now connected with Bangalore via two double
circuit 200 kV double circuit lines ia-and-out of the proposed Talaguppa
substation and to construct immediately one more double circuit 220 kV
line from the Sharavathi power station to Talaguppa.  KEB proposes also to
build a 400 kV trunk transmission link between Shimoga and Bangalore
(Nelamangala Substation) to be commissioned around 1995-96 and to
operate from that year onwards the whole trunk transmission link (Talaguppa
to Nelamangala) at 400 kV. Howev0r, with-and-without load flow studies
showed that the-Karnataka power system could not be operated without the new
400 kV transmission link and that the annual cost of losses valued at the
long-run mar;inal cost of power for Karnataka would exceed the annual cost



-68-
AMNEX 3.1
Page 7 of 7
of investment in the proposed 400 kV link in years 1994/95 and 1993/94 at 401
per annum opportunity cost of capital. KEB therefore decided to include
in the Project the Talaguppa to Nelamnangala 400 kV line, to be in operation
by 1993-94. The ProJect also includes the 220/400 kV 500 NVA substation at
Talaguppa and the addition of two 400 kV incoming linebays at the Nelamangala
substation being financed under the Karnataka Power I Project loan. The
transmission component of the Project is shown on IBRD Map No. 20892.



-69-
Annex 3.2
- m                  Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
- o -  -       5168     1989 d
-1s        IS  _      190        19         1992        1993
A,  t        .         1 21 3 4 123_  4  1|2| 314  1 | 2| 314  1 2 23 14 1 2 2|3|4
400 kv Tranhmission Lne
SooNo0mongkmo 2_0 km                                       _ _ _ _ _ _  _  
220kw Trarnsmlo line
SRS - TOWL_p 38 kM
RMs - S.dcom 102 km
Sodom - Hlufmobod 66 km
Yhlmo -M_a 225 km
Uloat Hou.on20kn
S. Pro - NRS 24 km
Top to Wm                                       _ km
Top to Hgbbol km
66kv,lncerground Cob0s
IV Staion - 'C Station 4km
AustnTovn- TStotMon 2km
400W kv Sub___o__
Tdologppom                                                          -    m    -mmm
NOomorgoIo Qewnino boys)
220kv Substa._on_
Egipxr
Sekom
HOSOf                                                    -  m - m |.  mIk10 0 |     
llptur                                                         m      mm          
Hurfnnobod                                               m mmmm
66 kv Subsation
'V Stotlon
DC.Staton
Tools
C-nancl------ -       - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
WoddB"i-41812A



-70-
Annzex 3.2
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Conshtucton Schedule of KPC Project Component
v      ~~1 2 341   2_4 1        21314 1 2 3 4 _ 2 3 4 _  2 3 4                
-Eort,e aid Soddle Don__________         
- -- L-
'PaCe_  __ 
.~      99 ..99 .19                      9.1
________   _1_3_123_4123_123_41_3_4_234
PrepwcvuatloWdc
cfT Gt6l            | |- l l l |- l l l                      m i ; ;                 | 
Genatinr Uni in
Generatin Unit IV
Transfor_er                   I                          _ m      _    _ m
Transt.qnhrllm                                               m    m      .m
Trarl8boffT 1V-m-amm          
. wthgo U.  i         _ _ _l _m _ _                                    - -             
S9iJchgearunitoI                                   m m           mr
&WtChg@aTunitmI                                     a    mm       mm
Wodd 8onk-418123



Annex 3.3
Page I of 2
incs  m   urnsuiu
(R Ki.)                            (m  1i lioo)
I .To tobl                        2 Totl.
I Forotln  aMe                    I For"   Ime
Local Fotoiug Total  Exubah  Cost   Lol Feo   Total Ewgbm     Cods
:, - cons
A. PRPAAORY UU
RO. SITE, CM                          64.6      -   64.6        -      1   4.9   .-    4.9        -      1
RWR DIRION                           '13.3    0.7   14,0        5      0   1.0   0.1  1.          5      0
c    A      I AFFTATION                7.0      -    7?0        -                       O 0.5  -  0.S   -  .
Subtots! PPATORY gm                     64.9    0.7   65.6        1      2   6.4    o.  6*.4         1      2
I. CIvIL  M
m  II                                447.5   18.3  535.7       16    11  3.    6*.6 40.3         16    11
m  F RM                              1349£.0   26.4  160.4     16      3  10.1    2.0 12.1       1.      3
bTtal CIL UBI(S                        S.S  114.?  69.2         1       14  43.7    8.6 52.3       16     14
C6 lURTM    I0 WTOR s                   319.5  60.2  *3 6.              19  24,0   464 7096         66     19
P950                                  14.5   15.   30.0        52      1   1.1    1.2  2.3       52       1
661E6                                 56.8   60.5  117.2       52      2   4.3    44   8.8       52      2
CRE MM oM    E*)IPIT                  7.9    1.9   9.7         19      0   0.6   0.1  0.7        19      0
9h-Total  NCAL EEfI T         .         79.1   77n.   l57.0      50      3   §9    5.9 11,1         50      3
- ElECTCAL MEOMIPENT
SFNO    M  ANSD 811TOIAR              42.9    4.6   47.5       10      1   3.2    0.3  3.6       1O       1
PA- ELCIL      tC.                    22.7    2.4  2S.2        10      1 1.7  0.2 1.9             10      1
t            Y TRUM                    S.6      -    56         -      0   0.4      -  0.4        -       0O
POOE LINECA                            1.3    1.4    2.?       52    -0   0.1    O.l  0.2        52      0
-Toutl ELECR   swim                     72.6°   9.4   61.0       10      2   545'  0A   6J          10      2
F. FNU ADFFICE ESM 
Om= No          aUCvows                5.6      -    5.         -      0   0.4'    -  04 
iiUL meC WGUTIOU ElHwE                 24     1.t    4.2       32      0   0.2    0.1  0.3       32      0
WEW  TTAUPSTWNPI                       2.6   2.7    5.5        50      0   0.2    0.2-0.4        a0       0
SWta 1FD A           WFICE EWI           11.2    4,0   152     2V        0   0.3   0.3  1.1        27      0
e. CSSlTIC                               10.3    3.5   14.2      24       0   0.6   0.3  1.1        24      0 
o.f DIME" a AIIN         TIN            443.1   13.2  456.3       S      it- 33.3    1.0 34.3        3      9
I.T tAK   MA                            93.1   406  131.6        29    7.4    3.0 10,4              29      3
J.  AINU       LINES 220 IY
S.pI-I                               2a.3  -1t   27.6           5      1   2.0    0.1  2.1        5       1
SIRS-tI.U9PA                          25.7    4.4   30.0      IS       1   1.9   0.3  2.3        15       1
RIPS-                                 51.     2.J  54.4         5      1   l.9    0.2  4.1        S       1
27.0    1.4   29.3       5       1   2.0    0.1  2.1        5      1
52.3   2.7  S5.0                 1    t.9    0.2  4,1       5      1
UL  NAT ISA                           15.6    08   16.4         5   0      1.2 0 .1  1.2          S      0
tAP-SISIPURA                           S.9-5  0.3    *#3        5      0   0.4    0.0  0.5        I      0
t ML                                   3.1    3,0   6.l        49      0   0.2    0,2  0.5       49       0
Tol rA iUiEB             220 W          207.   16.   22.          7      I  U.       1.2 16.         7      5



*  -72-      .                                Aiunez  3.3
K, T        O Cm  w '                                                                             Page 2 of 2
CO                  ,                    9.    6*.1   15.6         9      0   0.t    0.5  1.2         39       0
-   HUStINTUlll                         10.1   10.5   20,6        51      0   0.      o.al 1.5        51      0
Sub-tal 1 NIl  CAN   6                     19.5   16.7   36.2       46       1   I.5    1.3  2,7         46      1
L. SNATION 66/12/KY
SATION                                 9.8   10.3   20.1         51      0   0,7    0.6  1.S         51      0
C SATION                                10.1   10.5   20.4        S1      0   0.6    0.3  1,5         !I      0
tiWbTota S    AttS TT 11Y                  19.8   208   40.7       'S        1   1.5    1.   3.1         S1      1
No NILETWOOE                               4.3    4.6    8.9        52       0   0.3    0.J  0.7         52      0
NoOATtNZO/Wit a
1 STATION                               31.*6   332   64,6       I1       1   2.4    2.5  4.9         51      1
LIGIPIPA                                30.1   31.6   Us.7        51      1   2.3    2.4  4.6         51      1
now                                     33.2   44.8   67.9        51      1   2.5    2.*6  5S.1       St      1
NASSM                                   22.4   23.5   4s5         51      1   1.7    1.8  3.4         51      1
lhU.3                                   20.9   21.9   42.8        51      1   1.      1.6  3.2        51      1
TtI                                     19.1   20.1   39.2        51      1   1.4    1.5  2.9         S1       I
am                                      10*9   11.5   22.4        51    00 0.6    091I7?              51      0
HEI33li1                                29,2   30.7   59.9        51      t   212    2.3  4,5         51      1
SuTtal STAiOn  220/4/111 IV              197.4  207.1  4045         51       8  148   15.6 30.4          51      8
n. DISlRIIUtIOII EOUPET
RIN6IIAIIITCIIS M                       30.5   32.4   U29         52      1   2t;4  2.4  4.7          52      1
DISIvTIIlZ                             17149  .-164  190.1        10      4  12;M    1.4 1443         1t      4
CHlL                                   186*5  196.7  385,2        52      8 `140,  14.9 29.0          a2      I
-ub-Total DISTRIBTION  JU S              366.7  249.5  38,3         39      13  29*2   18*8 4*0          1      13
P. IStltltIIIION NISCOLLIAN-
gm  amCA       ? S5   174    34.1    52                                   1  1,2      1.3  2.6        52      1
CAPACITl8                              *15.5    1.o   17,2        10      0   1.2    0.1  1.3         10      0
lWLS IIDmmIIwIpm                        32.7   34*9   6A          52      1   2*5    2,6  S.1         52      1
PMOECTIEI-EIITU                          4.4    4.7    9.0        St      0   0.3    0.3  0.7         52      0
ST1 lDISlllUflONNIUCILl        tUS        69*2   56l 127*9          46       3   5*2   4*4  9*6          4       3
0. 16 10 AND11 51
I6*    6.6      10        0           0.5  0.5       i0       0
-             M1~~~WW    YW     aw1 Or                       668    608       100      0      -      #  OS  O*    to1       0
Sub-T tlIMNUSISTPI                           -    6.6    6.6        104      0      -    0.5  0.5       100      0
R. T19NUSION LIIES 4O I'
__~~ -                                       -        -       -      -       ,                   - 
NllOM     IE4 WAA                      463#3    91.s  15a,        U      It  34*8   6ht 4167           4      lt
STotal *MIIIIUN LI   400                 463.3   91.5  54.6          16     11  346    6.9  41.7         16     11
St SITATINSS 400/0 KY
tMAIA-A                                 Me20.6  126.7  249,4      S2      5   9.1    9.7 18.6         52      5
46.6    9,2 L  55.1       1       1   3.5    0.7  4*2         1       1
Stobtl tSATION 400k220V                   1.3  13         S.2       45       6  12.6   10.  22.9         45      6
tlow  Lu=  CAT                             3t233.2 1,65.0 41t o34    100 2435  W17.3 370.6                   3     1 I
Piil C       lMtinmmcl                   268,4  18.1  3J.3           32      6  20.2     9.6 29.6        32      8
Ptiu  Ctn                                 956.2  6.2t m424           35      30  43.2   23.3 664          35     18
_- -    - - - - - -
tal tO T COSts                             4462.8 2.347.2 4610.0        34,   1   30W.8  1684 46.0         *      126
t ou a  a0                             - - 
A,i11 1 1968 09S10



KAWAS ?U   P 1U
Procrmv t Tmetabl.
Date Bid      Date of         Date of                  Date Of      World Benk      Dae        Dvet
Bti       Docement sent   Worid lak    sale of Blid    Date of    Ssbsioe   Acceptance of   Cntrat  COntract
Documet No.  to World 8ak   Co@acuc@         p           Did Opiel#   to V. Back  Did BDalwatin    as        C.,leted
CIVIL WORKS
DaM                     1(a)          12167         O/88          03168        05/68        08o68         09/88        10188      10103
PVerhouse         .      (b)          L2I/6          01/68         0388         05/88        0#818         09J88        10/88      0493
Gates                   1tc)          02686          04/88        :-/68          10/88       01/88         02/O9        04869       9V3
Talaklele DM                          04/689          4/69         04E9s        06/89        06J89         07/S9        08W9      tO/9t I
TIUongiUAoS             2             0818           10/88         12188        OU89         08169         09/J9        10/89       10J93
NEANcAL  DMH6. T
Peato&s                 3(5)          03/88          035/8         07/88        09/88        1O/U          1V/88        12/88      06/89
Crane                   3(b)         1i2/8           u2V89         04/89       w0n89         10/89         11/89        01/90      1290
EUCTRICAL ByIPNS. 
Transfoners             4(a)          09/89           llJ/6        01/90        05/90        09/90         10/90        11,90      09193
Protective and
Control Panels        4(b)          12/89          0290          04/90         08190       12190         01/91        02/91      08193
Xiitchgeers             4tc)          o4/68          00/49         088S9        121t9        04/90         05/90        06l90       1292
;tructures              4(d)          04S9          06/89        01W9         12V9         04/90         05/90        06/90      12192



-74-        "3                              .
Annex 3.4
INDIA          
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
A         >,,\     REB CEOMPONENT        '
LIST OP TENDER DOCUMENTS AND CONTRACT PACKAGES
Approx.      N
Number ot   Cost
Details of Packages                                   Pac kges    (Re. in
J   <      ,                   ib     -    + -   \ '~~~~~~~~~lakhs.)
N.~ ~ ~~~~~~. 
400 kV Substations
A.   1. 167 MVA, 2201400 kV sinigle phase transformers
,and 50 MVA 400 kW shunt"reactors                           1          830
2. 400 kV and 220 kV instrument transformeri,   -                       - 7  -.     -
circuit breakers, disconnecting switches,
control metering, relay panels, SOT crane,t
lightning arresters, battery and battery chager,
D.C. panels, control cables, LT AC panels and
station auxiliaries, PLCC equipment and
diesel generating sets                                     1          11779
3. 400 kV and 220 kVswitchyard structures, bus bars
and pedestals, insuloors, clamps and fittings,              .z...            9
oil filtering equipment, air conditioning plant,
fire fighting equipment                        -           1           121
2R0 kV Substations
B.   1. 100 NVA, 220/66 kV ad 220/11 kV 3-phase 100 WVA.
Star - Star transformers                                   2         1210
2. 220 kV, 110 kV and 66 kY instrument transformers,
circuit breakers, disconnecting switches, control,
metering and relay pan.ls, DOT crane, lightning
arresters, battery, battery charger and D.C.
panels, control cables, LT AC panels and auxiliary
AC supply equipment and PLCPtequipment .                  2.         1348 0
3. 220 kV, 110 kV and 66 kV switi-hyard structures,
bus bars  nd fittings, insulators, clamps and
fittings, oil.filtering equipment, air
conditioning, fire fighting equipment                     2          ;253
, 



-75-
Annex 3A4
Page 3 of 3
400 kV Transmission Lines
C.  1. 400 kV towers and erection                                 1
D.   1. Conductor and ground wire
2. Hardware, conductor accessories and ground    )
wire accessories                             )          1         4855
3. Insulators                                 .   )
220 kV Transmission Lines
8.   1. 220 kV DC and SC towers and erection                      2         1834
2. Conductor and ground wire
3. Hardware, conductor accessories and ground
wire accessories
4. Insulators
Fe  66 kV 8L?  cables                                             1          360
C.   66 kV Substation equipment                                   1          303,
H.   110 XV 30 WAR capacitors                                     1           60
Ie  66 kV 30 WhAR capacitors                                      1          120
J.   11 kV 600 KVAR switched capacitors                .1                    175
K. Distribution tquipments
i) 11 kV ring main units                                  1         1200
ii) 11 kV cables
iii) Distribution transformers      -
iv) Distribution boxes, LT cables, etc.
-'     .  .TOTAL                                19        13748
.R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 76 -                i         ANVSX.J5 
76 -~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-ECOD tABATAK  POVEt PROJECT
. Z5chedule of Bank Disbursemets
- ~Total Proi st. 
Cumulstive Disbi_ement
IBD-financial
Year & Semester                   US$ Nillion              X
1989     81                          20.0                  8
82                          26.4                 10
1990     81                          40.8                  16
82                          55.2                 21
1991     81                          79.3         -       31
52                         103.4       -         40
1992     81                         129.4                 SO-.
82                         155.4  .              60
1993     81 SI186                                         72
92                         217.8               -84
1994    -91                         238. -                92
92     -                   248.4 s               95
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$                '                              c  is.  
s995     S1.          ,             252.3               G 97
52                        .256.2                 98
, 1996    Si:         ,              258.1                 99
82                         259.2                 99
1997     81                         260.0                100
.1
0~~~~~~~~~
5 .   .   5
- ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~                  -.       S
.. .3                                                    5
(5> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.                         .  
25 .. i ,



77                          Annex 4.1
-77-
INDIA
SECOND KARANTAKA POWER PROJECT
Method for Computation of Rate of Return on Assets
As per the Electricity (Supply) Act, KPC and KEB are required to take
all necessary actions to ensure that total revenues in any financial year
shall, after meeting (i) all expenses properly chargeable to revenues,
including operating, maintenance and management expenses; (ii) taxes on
income and profits; (iii) depreciation; and (iv) interest payable on all
debentures, bonds and loans; produce such surplus of not less than 3% or
higher as notified by GOK, of their respective net fixed assets in service
at the beginning of the financial year. Critical terms listed above would be
defined as follows:
(a) "total revenues" means revenues from the sale of electricity and
other services, and miscellaneous income. For KE8, this would in
addition include rural electrification subsidies, state electricity
duties received, and such other subventions received from O0K to
cover extraordinary costs which are borne by KEB and which should
not reasonably be borne by its customers;
(b)  "expenses" means the cost of power generated/purchased, fuel,
operating, maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and
all taxes and duties accruing during the financial year, other than
taxes on income and profits;
(c) "taxes on income and profits" consist of income taxes and other
levies accrued according to the provisions of any applicable legis-
lation or regulation;
(d) "depreciation" means a provision, based on gross fixed assets in
service at the beginning of the year, derived by using the straight
line method in conjunction with the schedule of useful life of
assets that was notified according to provisions of Section 68 of
the Act, on April 3, 1985;
(e) "interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans" means all
interest (whether paid or vaived), ex^luding interest during
construction, accrued during the financial year, and all other
charges on debt; and
(f) "net fixed assets in service" means the original cost of fixed
assets reduced by the aggregate of the cumulative depreciation taken
on those assets. For R3E, this would furhter be reduced by
consumers' contribution for service lines, also reduced by the
aggregate of the cumulative depreciation taken on that portion of
the service lines which were financed by consumer contributions.



KAREAtAKA ?OUUU         3
(ER. ENDN  now 31)
mS.                                            ----MCAT--------------- --
comnAlm ~  ~    ~ ~ 06 GM    pt. NWs. 67,           1987186 196616  1969190 1990/91 1991/92 1992193 1993194 1994195 1995/96
eeee..ee           ------~~~~~~~~~       --------  -   --  - ------
Zt196emmkhLgm PON"zDsme.           122         in2                0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0
~~awMb1RobsblUaLti.             477          23               25     100      106     119      100k      0        0       0       0
-~~                Rv6s1.-I                340          3420               s0       0        0       0       0        0       a0       0       0
lagebLErgy"-1I                   2000         1534               50     100       16       0                a       0        0       0
3.iabm  Th.1"  - I                 21         36 sos             5        0        0       0        0       0        a       0       0
Awtepieab. a  m po"amse            31?           22             100      100      70       24       0       0        0       0        0
Batch=m ThammI - U2 (unit 2)   1941             92              250     466      430     358      335       0   0   a0 
UaLIANd BY"e  - it               4392           04270                   720      go0     O00      750     70      268        a       0
Alinftt  Dos w r Doo mRau        149211"                          5       9        0      ~0,       0     206     306      477     479
Uagayatbl 2.11 3e. Ps.jet    2271                0                0      83       66    024      267      638     500      11      150
*euas.,aUBy"   - I               2170           64I                       3                0        0     147     306      71      66"
NahedaI. lb,",                   2470            00                       0       35     200      375     5(40    65       500     210O
menagmel. *A1tIiMl               8140            0                0       0       35    100      1000    1000    1000    1000    1105
XelSaej  0,4.1 Stae III          2652            0                0       0        0       0      141     294     611      79      al1
ASUAWeu      t1-       (Wait 4)   2848           0                0        0       0     300    400       600      700     448       0
YsrahLU4" d        1-              M7            0                0       0        0       0        0     147     282      248       0
SosinesWo  i. &       osutg.13     iSO           0                0       3       39      63       36      i5       0        0       0
De.LG.aee.tog             506so         0              150     250      106       0        0       0       a        0       a
lIjitat, sobm                     4500                            0       0      I50     s0o      300     400     500      600     450
am   0ait S&a6-UIn              12000                             0       0        0       0        0       0       0        01600
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tot"al arsetmm           55112         66410                     85     16        51     48       03      50       26      5756
?                                                                                                           UO
f



(MM6  DiUS NARM  31)
(Xs Rs NUll..)
196013  196118  1962183 1963184 1964,5 196518 19361? 1967138 HUM18  13691* 1990191 19919.2 199219  199319  1934193 1995196
Rodst                     5769    6762    7335    7316    7927    700    62M      519    7640   10813   10652   Iw70    11107   11622   12679   13604
2hanal               ~~~0     0       0       0       0     214    1262   2400    2300    22)4   210       3569    4111    s109    6518    5516
lotal                     5769    67M     7326,   7316    792      722*    7465    7529    9940   I24    13554   14272   1!=7   16731   19197   2232
ULeetz"tolt  "Sas -00)       SW3    440      7175    715     7741    7016   7169   722    9552   12472   13116  1376   1it           bos5s   MM       17
Losse" (2)                    2.3     2.5     2.1     2.1     2.3     2.9      4.0     4.3     3.9    2.9      3.2     3.5     3 .7    4.0    4.S    4.7
Ave. UY.ndbS  o16 (Ps)       7.10   10.00    9.93   14.03   15.78   17.77  25.42   33.38   28.42   29.07   30.7- 32.18   38.08   43.38   36.62   67.67
Solo  of Llostzlaty           400     464     713    1004    1322    12471   1622   2440    2715    3425       83     4420   3557     66    10396   14396
Otbst Umma..                    6      124      6      16      12      83      114     42      4 0      57     107     134     163     131    1I6      205
ltotl urMA                    406     G66     71o   1021    123      1330    1936   242    277        3682    3945    4564    5742    7157,  1056    14403
lug) cost                     --      ---     ---      -       -       69    3SU      737    310       902   1344    1897   2507    3574   523        N13
opecatiou & Iblatesnce        -       -       ---     ..-      --      .-- ---        157      is7     214     214     220    263      309    489    5s5
3st*bU&sbma  Zpeaes 1/    133         174     173     204     170     195     205    234      271      325     374     430     495    594      663     765
bea1tyr os Generation          30     119     130     226     290     251      225     205     306     425     426     425    444      445     507     552
~~speeo1atL.s ~~~54            31      97     115      323     261     352     314     314     428     428     440     525     646     978    1171
?ott NaPeDS..                 219     384     405    544      764     79    1174   1649   185        2293    2736    3416    4235   536       739    11224
Operstis im.13                        33       1      476     450     538      762    833      917    1389    1160    1148    1307    1596   2692    3379
latetoat                      304     371     451     578     710     837     973,  11"    122       1435    153   1995    2566    3256   4087    4810
LeasslIut   a.t CapLtallaed    96     123     195    294      415     504,   230       416    $55      409     748    1189    1477    2162    2233   2431
Net Interest                  20       4        7     24      25       333     743    73      46S12             i85     0     1059    19       84     27
got tua.m                     -20      56      5o     192     155     205       19.    90     25)    342       344     341     419    502      a38    1000
Raft of Ustuts 21
- As per Covemast                 1.66    1.56    4.89    3.76    5.22     0.3     1.0     3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
- Useteo Istevst                  B.69    6.30   11.84' 11.18    9.33      9.3     9.6     9.0   11.8   10.0        9.0     9.9     7.2     8.5     6.4
Avezage !agifg (Constant Pa1s"lMkh)                                                   31.4   24.4   23.7   23.7   23.4   26.1   28.1   34.5   38.9
'.3



' DIA
XF3AZA P - 1
(AS OS NM= 31)
---       ----L- -7WC)
Ases                      19UI81 19611852 1962182 1965154 1904185 1965186 19864111967186 1968169 1lt990 19919  1911219919  19919  1ltff9 195196
PI#6d Asset
0ars Fixed                   SM      41       42      487    4964    M1    108    100   142          14254   14683   17513   20601   229   3902309
t ss:Ase. DSepeisilmi        413     5U       601 .716    1os    1308    160    197    229    2717    314    W5               4110    4728    57 
Nt Lmed Asse           -     3366    317    392)   4121    5925    7607   820   8505   1im*4   liSS?   11538   1s928   16491   27861   5S327  47222
Capital V@xks-ia-Lznr       sa   1110    1720    2814    4141    53227    200    1945    1422    2242    4532    8392   105   14358   10014   11019    4140
___-_ _._                  _      _        -        -                        - _-__ __-__ _                            _
total ltmid Asts             44"8    537   J737    8262    9252   10637   10765  U21    14206   16069   1990   24864   SO89   2787    44)46   SI132
Catiest Assst*
Cash-frt-land                  1       28       32      21      73    1oo       55     222     257      211    S2       496     616    824    1152    1675                I
Iuyeatoruis                I  Sao     410,    414      450     472     149     489     $14     428     426      440     525     618    9w8    ll1    162                  C0
3n1triaLty Debtors              77      69      47     298     56      794   12S      1002      37      U15     320     269    4U5      581    86      1200
Oteir CgOnoet Assts           -594     59      467     328    .401     421     704     741     778      817     856     901     94      993    103    1095
-y---- ---   --   --- ----- ~------ ------ -                   --         -      -     --         -               -
fotal, Cuggot Aset           106    1104       96 0 1107    1491    14"       2487    2280    2200    16n      2011    2292    2"7    3376    4233    S592
tol Asset                     546    6441    7697    969             12101   13252   14406   16506   17940  21942    275    3306   41250   48579   56956
Govt. of KAwOi*a              560      560     560     560      60     560     560      60     560      560     560     560     560     560     560      560
Geteal, & 0tt-N Besetwes      156      10      209     396     553     822     641      "1    1ift   1545    1890    2221    265       2152    2990    4990
Tot"l Equity                   14      740;    769     9.56    1113    IM 1) 1401    1491    1742    2103    2450    2791    2210    2712    4550      55
Long TOM  Debt (LD)          4724    5578    8639    802      9161   10276   11407   2222    14072   15272   18649   2)677   2949    2652    42759   4972
CgetLisbitltm              96     123      289     391     469     442      44    684      690     361      601     687     794    1013    1270    167
total .~'4t   UsLibi,lities  5346    641  797     96    10743   12101   13252   14406   16506   1794    21942   27155   33496   4125    48579   56956
Equity.as I of 96t+quity,    13         12      10      11      11      12      11      1:1     11       12      11      11      10       9      10       10 
0*
_  _  _  _  _  _  _      _       _       _       _       _       _        _       _       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



S    80    C                  Z        8           LI   S           0S       91-   S          S        11      9    * -          CU33*duO(S) wxa  -4         o
11      11       11       ?1i     ?1       t l              VT 5T      1      CO      V  6£ C0                  90t      CO  Vrt iSwSs 3qoa
C4 S.
191 °10    35s001   es96    9V69    OZ9             090     15s    310Z    5t91       3Tt1     UOZ    6m0    9531    919    t1T0                                InWe 
1          u        gs  009  OTC     :        961       6      00-  951          £OC-   -ts                                S n   s                               s-ff T t  d p we
Go               "t       9       SOt sN            9m-    n1-       *9-               a-      Ca       Lt      101-    t-       19-                 qs  0 0
111      ug      901      UT      gt 0                      aS    £91                          1£       tt-     t        n       6-
ME    tug    £061    01£?    9t11    11T   4qt1   99                 ou       "it    MC        1t       19      1 t 1    91      LU                @1*303 216t  Team
Go1-   0     Tin     19"      Ott     ST9       a1      Ut      £9       959      119     A"1      Ls       f61     on1      et2
1    9131m    "CT    6301    £03           Su       aLO   tO         19£     1£       se       £6t Ca   .       La       19"     o0n
S--V
UW o"I    *V9A    *ToNS U96  Sgo                      n     "a       "O      Cott  SLT    VTt          Zt9t    cm   t86  6SS               _     d     axomz  _u 
am0  out    6069  tug    NOS                        nuC L@1Z COZ9T  t9Lt  SLt                   t      9TtC+ gm          us  iS
tot      aLt    fF        ObZ       9      Oft       OI     06                                                                                               isot  -
cnzt       Ot1   SOOt    69       9"o    OngS am             Mc    oti#  8       nc   8ZtZ94   uaz gSf                   9UXt   T"t                             TWD
^ cSo U S"L n9  twu               WCm  flm     gmt tzn                                                                               goZtt n                          ;ZOm  8  T_14o
----    ----------   --- -       - - - --- 
T~~~~n                t       on c  on         TI       a                                                _oooe
13g     13S   L30         U6      99       09£    09        a1    at0    Ca           91        mSZ    "6       9go      0       L9 90                 000a3 1
ML    a"                  cs   ff9         VOs"X  tOo       961              LS       an       *t tot    on     69t%  t9"         M,  _>4  un4            sF
OmW  Om9 *tZ              cm  t            L St gm            t       Ctan  tnt   LO           CU      tZ      X . *T    ZG   -14                     Toe          W
06~~~ ISI            191      53      £19      31*      110     11       11       05      01       1        361     319      999  -. 191      3£S1*30   3
u9n     96        319    Stu      C        o91n     WV      tt1                                            mi9    p. at  Su  A6 U
n"cc    mmffm             to         T     COTT    Go"  09n    *t             ML  Z9L   #Sv  9Lt                Su       c        at          u3ot  COC mmt 
119"  991        fflU S6    l l     19t It     16106 1t    £91t    l   1 WAS61 ""  "Mol olvat 91 1itl3 6         C9l"t g01 tt                      60oli       8
-           -w_w --   ---                        - -                                                               -- -
nsn
ILIT    056  319  136  099  319  319     911      911      IS     St1       11u1 )6                           9                       01108.
UlI    131    961    £01  3911 0911  311    £6      (it    19£      311a     01        £       1        01      31602380 q.nu
- -   --      -      --   --            -      --SROINM  M    AD  -AZWrf OM               --              --- 
96116?£6966  91161 61161  6166116166  06631 61331  31£6'   low6  316   313191311136   316   306
(211111Wx mm" v



ANNEX 4.2
-82-  o'                        Page 5 of 5
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAICA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Income Statement
Generation              : KPC's Generatiqp Forecast.
Sales Revenue           :  hfriff increases assumed to satisfy the 31 Rate of
Return (after interest) Covenant.
Other Revenue           s Income on KPC's Construction Equipment rentals
etc.,tassumed as 2,5Z of Construction Program.
Fuel Cost               i 'Coal at Rs 411/Tonne increasing by 151 annually;
Oil at RS 3.39/liter i)creasing by 10 annually.
Operation 4 Maintenance s 1.51 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Establishment Ex#enses  : 151 annual increases except in 1989/90 and 1993/94
when a 201 increase is assumed due to expected
general wage increases.
Royalty on Generation   s Pfyment to COK for water used for electricity
;eieration, currently at 4 paisa/kWh.
Depraciation            s 31 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Balaxkpe Sheet
Cash                    s 2 month's cash operating expenses.
*  
Inventories             s 31 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivable     s Forecast in months of sales as follows:
; .,1987/88 to 1989/90 - COK action in reducing KPC's
and KEB's receivables (pars 4.30);
1990/91 and after - 1.0.
,                          &9
Other Current Assets      S 51 increase annually.
Current Liabilities     s Forecast at 301 of current assets.
Sources and Applications of Funds statements
Investment Program      3 KPC's 10-year investment program including
interest during constructio.   ;
Debt kpayment           I Term of 20 years, including 5 years' gracet
assumed for Bank Icon and all COK loans.



KMMTAKA Ponm II swick
KABUATAK ELECTRICtTY BO8
POOSINVESINE  PUOEAN
(nCw om fut wittilion)
MM  Of Sohus        art lat.Cost        MOM/8 1969/90 I900/1" M99M  1992/9 199/9 1994/95 19g5/96
400 KV TR*hf1SSI11 LIME
.. ..........7...
-11sip.h.sim"          spin8/9  245.2       100.1   61.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
8himgm4slmuipl~~    93/94 77.5            51.8  123.3  325.4  207.9  65.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
Kaigm-Siral. -      ~~~92/9  145.2       131.1   17.9   47.0   53.   "42.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Sfrst-Osvdtmgwin   91/95 408.8          20.8   38.6  112.7  121.4  101.6    0.0    0.0    0.0
-  Ia,uiwsr.4stiuigsla  90/91 58.8        171.2  179.8   70.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
k'wst..ffiudr*.d    90/91 176.6           g@.i  50.2   24.9    0.10   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
sismut al40w Ir'. ie                            405.1  471.1  588.   382.4  209.1    0.0    0.0    0.0~
0             ~~~~220 KYV TR*UUSISIC  LIES
so IraSM                   &Pi"/9   32.?          8.0   247     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
~IThi.t~q*pm            93/94  43.1            0.0    0.0    0.0   13.2   21.?    8.2    0.0    0.0
0a~mssO-0irla as         win8  98.3            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
NeuJhriNmhI              NAM9  64.5            1.3   20.9   22.6   14.7    3.8    0.0    0.0    0.0
NhspE.imar                 S9/90  45.2            1.3   28.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
jhr-KedsuMi           90/1"  41.0           11.3   15.7    3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
o9/9   65.5           10.5   55.0    0.     .0    0.0     0.     00     00
Link Lines to SutMi. Station 92/9   12.3         0.0    0.7    3.5    7.3    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0
LILO Pew-iIsp               68    0.7            -00     0.0    0.01   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
LO PayaISas.868    3.9                          0.0    0.0    0.0  0G.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
LILO                        W"uU   Ilw  99    4.7  0.6    4.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
LO  eigUstom              9219    3.2            0.0    0.     0.0    1.    1.?    0.A    0.0    0.0
Km~aSms (I(t mn DC towes) 15/9   26.4          0.0    0.?    0.7    5.9   15.3    3.8    0.0   0.0
Ka*s-tu~~~eaUi ~90/1"  39712.8   13.8    2.7    0.0   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
SILO lwaaavsoti-bAI        93/9   12.8            0.0    0.7   .1.4    1.5    7.6    1.6   0.0    0.0
SLO Pesao95/96  '17.0                             Co - 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.9   5.0   10.1
PPs~~~sui          90/91  66~~~.2   - 10.3   35.1   20.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
8hub~Cts~'d)-usWwid  95/96   6.1         O' .0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    0.8    6.7
C)   ~ ~~ Mi4.lgmm              95/94~~~~~"    83.0    0.0    0.0   1t.4   22.0   22.9   36.6    0*'   0.0
Sr Ja li-"    Ir II Stn.    96/9   35.4,        0.0'   0.0 -0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7  33.7
Ihusvati, IUPISthaavati $.$tn 93/94  40.4         0.0    3.6    3.0    4.9   25.9   3.0    0.0    0.0
1jO(-SuIgmm            94/9   79.9         -0.0    0.0    1.4    5.9   22.9   41.3    8.3    0.0
- P~sIm.Cthsu~t).uesean 94/95 186.1         0.0    0.0    4.4   29.4   39.7   79.5   33.1    0.0
~~~ Sec~~~R.  9wI9   19. 7                 0.0    00    0.0    0.7   15.3    3.7    0.0    0.0
- -  g~~~~4miohed               90/91~~"I    34.6     5.2   17.2   12.2   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                   o
0thaw uors toer96 th               75.9           0.X    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   75.9
Cmtminirei Musts i         90/   481.4          136.1   20.0   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1I.11 Nissa                "1/9   21.2            0.0    0.0   18.1    3.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
TapN~~~el ,         91/92"i  8.1           0.0    0.0    2.4  5S.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
0  -.    ~~~Ssbotm 220W Trus. Lines                        97.4  240.6  107.9  115.6  177.7  180.0   48.8  126.4                  o
Umbleta Trumissimn Linn                         502.5  711.8  48.S  496.2  386.8" 180.0   "8.   126.4



KARtNATAKA POME I I P2OJECT
KAMUArMA ELECTRICITY BORD
ft  1    mmPROUMA
(in twemnt ft mtition)
Vale. of Schm      Twwet Est.Cost        WM/8   89/90  900/91  91/9   92/9   93/94  94/9   95/96
400 LV STATIWS
2x315 nu 220/4K  RI-sirel  93/94 347.2           17.9   35.9   79.0   96.2   83.8   20.8    0.0    0.0
1a315WA 440A220ODavanwi    9W/9  325.2           17.0   33.9   73.6   89.S   78.0   19.6    0.0    0.0
1dUIONV 400122 Nutmtinl    9019  322.6           87.5  '97.1   74.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
IU50100A 2201440 at Tat    VMp%919  355.9         0.0    S.7   35.7   76.3  215.4   22.6    0.0    0.0
400122 ky4.lmuuta          9219    90.4           0.0    0.0    0.0   20.1   60.7    9.6    0.0    0.0
takbtata 400-k  3mststtiom                       12.3  172.7  262.S  282.2  437.9   72.7-   0.0    0.0
220 LV BUTATiM4
2uiOIIIA 2ZM6 Trf.Kativatti 868     6.1          19.5    0.0   0.10    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2x10SWA =0" Trf.'-VelhaNa 95/6 154.               0.0    0.7    1.4    1.5    4.6   31.8   49.6, 64.6
2al00 NO 220/110 Trf.-Tiptwr       53 .8          0.0    0.0   11.    35.0    7.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
ZaIOISWA 220146 Trf.-Kotw         125.7           0.0    0.7    1.4    1.5    1.5   12.1   42.8   45.7
2itlO NO RIIO rf.WAi-II  29.010.0   26.8   40.3   44.              7.2    0.0    0.0    0.0                  O
2x100 NO220/110 I'f. $ad           2B:3           0.0   11.3   17.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
21100 Wa 220/46 T?f.vliura)w    0  76.1          17.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
ZIxIO N  WA2066 Trf.-U.R.5    09   79.2           15.4   39.5   24.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
RilOG WA 206TrJv.it 49  121.5                     0.0    0.0    0.7    1.5   21.9   47.7   41.3    8.4
ZaID  WA 2111   r.uu         /5102.6              0.0    0.0    0.0    1.5   12.2   22.3   33.1   33.7
21100 WA 2/TiEf.Tumw    919    4.9                0.0   16.7   31.6    6.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2119WA 22/TE.  p.   1              81.5           0.0    6.1   54.0   21.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1x10   A20/5r.Snua   09   29.7                    0.0    0.0   29.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1xo0W   2/6Tf.wu.'19   26.5                       0.0    0.0    0.0   26.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1X100 WA 220111 TIEUd  d9/332.5                   0.0    0.0    0.0    #4i   0.0   32.4    0.0    0.0
1U100 WA 220/4 Trf JhImogs  9/531.2               0.0    0.0 ,( 0.0    0.0  '31.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
TffUIt~~~~Sl byS         6~~2.0          10.6    4.0    0.0  ,'0.0   11.0   11.4   29.8    0.0
lwIttuua Station at Nisan   VI&/2  60.4           0.0   11.1  '2S9--  25.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0'
bftshhu station at Lfe sw 91/9   37.0             0.0    1.1   21.2   14.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
21100 WA 2201" Trf.NumimW  90/9   90.4            0.0   11.6   30.2   48.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2ulOIWA 220/66 Tel. lubbu    91/92  78.8          0.0    5.9 -  52.0   20.9    0.0    0.0     M~   0.0
Subtot, al -kY sabstatlem                        72.9  135.   339.4  249.0  96.7  157.7  216.6  152.4
ft6totet Substations                            195.2  308.1  601.9  531.2  534.6  230.4  216.6  152.4
Distribution                                    305.1  377.8  426.1  482.6  522.0  581.   699.4  762.3
Rural gtctrlficatton                             147.0  164.1  190.8  221.9  241.8  262.9  285.4  341.4               I
Ian-Pla MKt~~~~~~~~~~~              403.6  432.0  565.3  587.9  611.4  635.9  661.3  674.3 
To"ta IiwitUUt5                                 U155.4 1993.8 2472.6 2322.1 229.7 1891.1 1911.4 205. 8
-xl    mnu,   -m=    Ms=   ==s m      m suua    -



DIA
KARNATAKA POWER IS PROJECT
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY DORD
- SUT8
(TEAR =NDING WARCH 31)
(In Re iLlLiai)
1980181 1981162 1962163 1936  196185 1986 1966167 1967168 196  1989190 1990191 1991192 1992193 1993194 1994195 19951ff
Enerw AvallabtUtyC (C&)
MM CGenratLoe                    514    464      429     396    422    382    352    309    350         Su    350      350    350      350    S30    350
Puobass -J 1C                   5634   4404    7175    7159   7741   7016   7169   7202    9552   12472   13116   13766  14652   16056  16366  21276
Puoba"ss - Central Statio-                                      368    868   1160   156        2415   2450   2.50    2450    2450   2450    3000   3000
Purchases  - nteor-State        832    626      508     679    662   135    1470    1400   1400   1400    1400   1400    1400   1400    1400   1400
Total                       6960    7896   8112   i234    9213   96?9  10151   10496   13717   16672  17316   17966  18652  20258  23116  26026
Sals of IleatrLty' (Ob)        5414   6193   6299    6473,    1        TS73   t 831   8007  10905  1S254   13766   14373  1502   16308  16606  20951
Losse (X)                       22.4   21.6   22.3   21.4   22.6   21.3   22.9   2S.7   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.0   20.0   19.5   19.5   19.5
AV.T?wfLUh sold (PaLs)          27.1   31.1   32.0   34.2   41.2   49.5   57.3   63.2   68.6   68.6   71.3   76.2   91.3  104.3  127.1  155.5
*  Ueyw.a
Sal" of 3loetrLo1ty            1465   1926   2016   2215   2934   3746    4486    5064    7486   9099   9810   11242  13770   17014   2364   32167
31.ots1ity Duty                  97    166    240    265    400    42           438    484    711    769    819    655          897    970    1±07    1247
RN1tubap                          12       0      46    221    121        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Other ReVAeS                     56      50      72    104    146    159    210          67      71      78      66      95     104    114    1*6    136
Totae Useemuss                  1430   2142   2376   2825   3601   4326    5134    5615   6268   9965   10715   12191   14771   18099  24679   352 i
Cost of Fow* PutchP _           sff    96       917   1s3s    1605   2334   3374   4124    S422   6S55   673           762   '9652  115   17731  24601
Opeation 4   2te_aae            129      65     139    164    239    271        296    329      362    268      352    389    460    510        5t7    G89
3Stsblsbse Lp &Wee              395     475    500      593    646    96O    1013   118    1230   1536   1766    2031    2336   2803    3224   3707
xLeatrieLty Duty                 97    166    240    285    400    423    438k   48             71      789    819    655    897        970    1O7   1247
I>tproeeitlo                     102    106    119       134    149    174    tiI       211     241    268      352    369      460    51i    57        689
ToiAl Eqses                     1319   1803   i915    2489    3239   416    5312    6316   6014   9215  1022  113*7  1605  1664    23219  SUS1
Wet Enemw   beftoe IresurFt     311    339    481    336        36"-  -146   -176   -701        252   -70       693    845   116    1451    1660  4219
Int rjt                         152    161      176    204    253    413    561    659    896    431            658    1118   1429    1776    1961   2199
Lesst lterest Duo"1 OChnt.                                                                              305    429    563       609    707      755     306
Inseam After Inteoret           159    176    285       132    109   -267   -739  -13S0    -646         423    264      290    347    382       434    526
not loam                        159    178    265    132        109   -267   -739  -1360    -646        423    26       290    347    382    434    526
Rate of Return 1J
- As per Cetqggnt                    7.1   10.2    4.2    3.1   -6.8  -17.1  -28.3  -1A.6            6.7    3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0       3.0    3.0
- ReZone xInerest                   16.9   21.7   14.6   13.9    4.7   -4.3  -12.0    3.3    6.0             6.4    7.1      8.6   10.1   10.1    0:.2
nAxse T*riff '(Csounutt)( psaIuWh)                                             57.3   58.6   59.4   56.0   54.9   56.8   62.6   67.5    n.s 5            .
11 Ot UatorLalIy Valuqdet Fix" P     ets in U".
(       d          ;                                         S ~~~~~~~0*
9                                                                                                                                                       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
G ' .'                              I' .  C.rS



KAR3ta!aA POUU 1U *AJ3T
BALASO  s'InR' 
(AS on Xmasa n1
1960181 1981132 1962185 1965164 198sAIsS  9>85184 1298167 1967183 1968189 1969190 1990191 I99192 1992193 199)194 1994195 1995195
Gioss Fixed Aissets              5500    1929    4427    495    5546   '6173       90     79 6930    8"   11741   2.275. IS2    1699)  19278  22950   2296
Loss sAce. D004asLtLio            us6   1028    1145   1.279    1423    1602    179       2001 - 2242    2310    2652    525       s711    422     4799    549
Not Fimed Asases                258      290)   5262    548      4118    4571   .5140    5929    606      9251   10114   32074   1223    15057   2818    171491
Captal  Iew1-M~es                15      1412    150     1779    2101    2630      029    2941    2726    2215    586      4417    565     5969    495)    729
total Filmed Assto               56)     4515    4786    5465    6219    729      68       60     94144  11447   1)99    2.6492   1895    21026   2146~76
& esa utam*~1Lues            21      21      21       20      20       6      1     :19        19      19      19      19      19      19       19      19
Xoter-01aft Aco.mmd Balace.s     459       10     545     641     890     555      452     i92     1)2       0        a       0       0       0       0        0
Ouarrt Assets
Cash                              159     201.    1)2     100     120      180     116     316     116     744      304     91     1095    1545    116     25)7
iflYOtOnlud                       55       59      4       s0      55      42       59      79       9     107    150       15      170     19n     250     150
320Uotgcty Debtors                214     296     567     606    1112    19)      2599    1902    2118'  225    25144    2562,  5004    5545    445         67
0th., Ca**it Assets                       n 67 52  545    647     7        654    1044    1169    150     1446   .1642    26)9   206       2507    253      2694
Ttalu Cazwsft Assmetts           695      665    1086   1605    2050    233)   58   26527    5Sa2    O5M    4921    546            6329    759     955    11)10
TotiA Assets                     4992    571     6440~  7711   695    1056    12448   12456   1)19    1602  I'192    2196   2526    =2645   5248    53)7
Bqiaty a LlsItletS
CasigContributions            64     107     129      155     168     251     Su6    58)       59)    426      42    A0N       548     594      648     706
Goeomi Ieset,es 4 2ugplns        &42      850    111s    147    i)5       10o9     50   .1010   -to5"   -I))   -9          -679    -552      so     484    1010
Total Squtsi                      7)8     9)7    1244    1400    1544    1340      484    447   4265       907      506    -177     21.4    445    112    1716
Lou5 Tom  Dsbt CL2D)            2226    2)92    2624    5110    SW9    4457    5737    7417    8522   10405   1296    15556   1817)   19907   21851   2554)
Stanf 8syezinavm  s  lwm6        174      208     22)     256     252     260      480     550     S80     435      96      74      8)5     915    1004    1101
6ommtwLv  Deosits                502      569     429     477     541    624       825    1025    112     12)).   1554    1467    1654    179      1972'  2106
corgent tLsam I its"            1549    1807    1921    2506    5025    566       4722    4115    444    t5       42       4590.  445      5173   8548    821
Totsal 5suty a LabuitIes        4991    5711    6440    731    695       OU58    12448   12436    39    1802    1695    21:999  236          55  52464   58557
Debt as X of (Debt4.Zquity)       75       72      GO      69      70      77       89     110     116     106      k04     101      9       97      95       95     O
32~~~~~~~~~~_.~~~~~Q



INDIA
KARNATAXA FOUR Zr FNDJUC
EARSIAAKA ELUCTIRCITY BOARD
SauaCES AND APPLICATIOUS OF FUNDS SUTATUN
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(to Rs MLLIII.)
Sm,ms                 1960161~igolf 1981/2 1982135 1983184 1984165 196513  1936137 1987183 1968189 1999190 1990191 1991192 199293 199194 1994195 1995,96
-n----a--S-----s
1a. Ism oprnttms                  311     339      441     336     342      146    -176    -701     252      750     493     845    1166    1451    1660    2419
Depreciation                      102     106      119     134     149      174     Is$     211     241      266     352     389      440     510     578      639
Total tatemal SoUrces             413     447      50     '470     511      320      10    -490     493    1018    1945    1*3       1614    1961    223      s1oe
Capital  .ontzibutLoms             17      is       22      24      35      43       85      27       so      33      36      40       448             53       so
$taff Iuperinustion 1m             20      30       17      13      16      as      200      so      so      355      6       67       73      31      at       9?
3.our1y Deposits                   45      67       59      49      64t3#9    200                    100     110     12      133      144     16I     177      194
Govt. of Usmuataha LOS"            93      122      82     146     223      602    10o6    1292      303    1827    2452    2451    2597    199      2396    2181
0th.: 3ero.:w1                    104     176      253     479     556      573     778     438     895
ftopoa  Leon                                                                                          so     322     331     447      38      110
otal" Uzowinvws                   197     296      335     625     779'.  1175    236      1720    1350    2148    2633    299    2978    209         36      28
Total, gauge"                     69       365    1013    111      405   _1669 -2-356       30     20   -3-34    409  -4-372-  4367?  _4342   -4953    543               OD4
Uxqposod Project                                                                                    211      670    to"5    60        494     327
0th.: zsvesamtsu                  444     567      590     as3    903    1164    2148       92       62     1620    180     2078    241.    2271    266       234
Total Invosmat Prps.:             404     337      590     813     903    1kG      1148     912     837    229      2901    2365    M9G    259       236      236
iffvesttimunt a  atsaslbl           0       0        0      -1       0       14      13       0
lotem-4bit Aooitnt  alaoes"        31      71       35      96      49    -155    -103    -1i0    -150    -132         o 0     a        0       0       00
Deft SaffwIao
Zutasest                 152~~~~~L  161   178     204      253     413     541     659       s      37      429      555     no9   1069    12aw    139
Umpa~~~~~at               33~~~a    134   103      139    29       315     584      40      ass      se     274      Su6     341     356      412     469
total Debt SayvLi                 235     295      279     343     545      72     145      49    123       -332     70      on1   116       1425    169      2562
Cbags In Working CaPLtal,
cub                ~2                      42      -9      -2       20       60     -a                 0     630      so     1?       132     249    5S2       m5
0th.: than Cash                   -61    -130      178     -se   -1in    -114       219      45       33     186     432     496      619      69      44       6
net dohag  in Workin  Capital.  -33        -a6     109     -70     -92      -54     155      43       33     a15     492     605      801    3no       5       714
Total Applicationh                692    6a5    1013    1131    1405    1669    236    1507    200          3364    4096    4372    4867    4342t   4953    S63         0 
Debt Service C.V02z60             1.8     1.5      2.1     1.4,   0.9       0.4     0.0    -0. 7    .0.4     2.7     1.5      1.4     1.4     1.4      1.3     1.2
CasriL. to Zuwstuaat Pxopros               61       2.6     i5       3        5     -61     -9       4        32       5        3       4      26       32      33



ANNEX 4.3
-88-                            Page 6 of 6
-   INDIA
SECOND KARMATAKA POWER PROJECT
AERMATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD
Ash_ tiono for Financial Prohections
Income Statement,
Ceneretion Available for Sale  *s Based on  PC's 8ales Forecast and lower Purchases from
VIighboring States and Central Stations.
Sales Revenue                  i Tariff increases assumed to satisfy the 32 Rate of
Return (after interest) Covenant.
Electricity Duty               s Collected on Behalf of COK.  Assumed at an Avwrage Rate
of 7 Paisa/IWh on 865  of Energy Sales since Rural
C6operativesp Public and Street Lighting Consumers do
not pay this duty.-
Other Revenues                 s Income from Building Rentals, Meter Rentals etc.,
assumed to increase by 10 annually.
Cost of Power Purchases        t Baed on KPC's Average Revenue/kUh and forecast prices
for interstate/Centr4l Station Purchases.
Operation & Maintenance         s 32  f gross fixed assets in oper#tion.
Eetablishment Etpen*s          I 152 annual increases except in 1989/90 and 1993/94 when
a 202 increase is assumed due to expected general w"e
increases.                                                   -
Depreciation                   s 32 of gross fixed aasets in operation.
-°Balance Sheet =
Cash                               I m1onth's operating expenses.
Inventories                        Z 12 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivable             s"Forecast as followss
1987/88 to 1989/90 - GOK action in reducing
kPC's and KCe's receivables (para,4.30);
thereafter about 25 months' sales of
electricity.
Other Current Assets            s Increases by 122 annually. 
C uwrenMLiabilities             s Forecast as 'a ratio of current assets,as followst
1988/89-1.29 1989/90-1.01 1990/91-0.81
- >                                     and thereafter 0.7.
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
tonsumed Contributions           a Increases by 102 annually.
0
Staff Superannuation Fund      I Increases by an aerage of 102 annually.
iectrity Deposits              s Increases by an average of 102 annually.
Investment Program              I  MEE's 10-year investment program including interest.
during construction..
Debt Repayment                  I Teom of 20 ye&rs, including 5 years' grace assumed for
Bank loan and all 0OK loans.



-89-                     5 >         Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.        As described in Chapter 5, the proposed Project forms an integral
part of the expansion program for tlo Southern Region and, therefore,
cost-benefit analysis needs to be carried out on the program as a whole
rather than on the Project in isolation. A time-slice of the Southern
Region's investment program has, therefore, been analyzed. Capital cost,
incremental operation and maintenance, incremental fuel cost and benefit
streams for the Southern Region are shown in Table 1. Assumptions underlying
these figures are detailed below.
Capital Costs
2.        Anticipated cipital expenditure on generatioa at financial prices
has been converted to economic prices by: (a) expressing the importe'4 content
at cif prices; (b) valuing unskilled local labo' at 0.75 of the market wage
rate; and (c) applying the estimated standard conversion factor, 0.8, to
local costs. Transmission and distribution capital expenditures have been
estimated at 50Z of generation expenditure.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
3.        Incremental annual operating and maintenance costs have bee*-
estimated as the following percentages of capital value: thermal generating
plant 2.51, hydroelectric 1.13X, and transmission and distribution 1.02.
Fuel Costs
4.        Average fuel consumption of new coal-fired plant has been estimated
at 0.645 kglkWh. The economic cost 2f coal at the pit head has been
estimated at Rs 164lton.  The economic cost of delivering coal to load center
stations has been estimated at Rs 0.54/ton mile.
Case 1. Benefits
5.        Case 1. benefits are based solely on incremental revenue at exist-
ing tariff levels. These allow for system losses which are assumed to remain
constant at 211 of net generation in the Southern Region. The average finan-
cial tariff in FY'85 was Rs 0.56/kWh. After allowing for (a) general infla-
tion of approximately 71 per year from FY'85 to date; and (b) a standard
conversion factor of 0.8, the corresponding average economic tariff at cur-
rent prices is Rs. 0.50/kWh.
Case 2. Benefits
6.        In Case 2, the benefits of incremental consump*ion include elements
of consumers' surplus for both industrial and agricultural consumers.
Surplus has been imputed at half of the difference between the average tariff
for each category and the alternative costs of autogeneration for indueirial
consumers and diesel pumping for agricultural.



Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
7.        The cost of i*dustrial autogeneration, at mid-PY'85 prices, has
been estimated as folloiss:
Purchase price (incl. installUtion)        is 4,300/kW
Life of set              -                   15 years
Average utilization                            15,
Discount rate                                  12%  ,       
Operation and maintenance cost'            Rs 215/kw per anpnm 
Fuel and lubricant                         Rs 1.24/kWh
Average cost                               Rs 1.88/kWh
The cost of electricity'which would equate the cost of electrical
pumping with that of diesei is calculated at mid-FY'85 prices as follows:
Electric       Diesel
Motor/engine size,                          5.0 HP         7.0 HP
Life Years                                 15.0        -10.0
Investment Cost                            As. 4000       Rs. 10250
Cost of diesel/hr-                                        Rs. 4.82
Aninual Costs       '
Annual Charges                             Rs. 526        Rs. 1668   r
OM                                       LRs. 890        Rs. 2500
Electricity/diesel
(800 hrs/year),
Electricity costing
X /kWh                                     Rs. 2984 X   - Is. 3853,,
Total annual cost                          Rs. 1416       i Rs. 8021
2984 X
Marginal cost of electricity               X - (8021-1416)/2984
at which diesel and electricity                4 s. 2.21/kWh
are equivalent
.1, 
8.       Average industrial and agricultural financial tariffi; during FY'85
in the 80uthern Region are eitimated at Rs. 0.64/kwh and Rs. 0.20/kwh respec-
tively. After allowing for inflation between did-FY'85 and end FY'86, the
average estimated willingness to pay, converted into economic terms at a
standard conversion factor of 0.8, is Rs. 0.78/kWh for industrial and
Rs. 1.02/kWh for agricultural.  Combining these p Ah revenue estimates of
the benefits to other consumers gives an average bieiefit of Rs. 0.70/kwh in
economic terms. -'
s   s         ,        .        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



Table 1
SOUTHERN RESION WNESTENEt-PROIRAN                         Page  3 of  3
ECUNONIC RT   FRTR
fin.            CaP. tip.    a & N    fuel Cap. Exp.   0 & N    Total         lncr.  NetI    Not 2
Year                 son.     Son.    Cast       TI& 0   t I 0    Cost       Sales  enof it  Benefit
190                  192        0         0       91         0       273'       0      -273     -273 
1999                 4298       0         0      314        '2       944'     '0-  944          -944
1999               -2413         1        0      1207        9      309               -3429    -362
1990                4502         1        0     2251*       32 -  6794          0.   -6786    -6796
1991                5970       1to        0     2905        77     90SO       209    -8955    -8695
1992               -7772       45        94     a90        137   '119,44     1252   -11372 1-10035
1993           49~~~675  IN8       220     ;438       215    10904      2204     -9B95    -8940
1994                4120      447       447     10*      . 294      7378     4636    -5254    -3244
1995                2133      707       047     1047      '325     5079      9142    -1339      21644
1994                          sot 0    1260      448       344     3910     1l78       150 8s 647
199                    0      9011    -1240        0       355 -   2416    11793       2984  .   041
1999          - ~~~0 801         1260,        0      355      2414    11793      2984     94
1999                   0      901      1.240       0,    355       2416    11793      2904
2000          *"       0  ~801         1249        QO      355      2416    11793      2994   ~ 1
2001                   0      901      1240         0      355     2416   '1179       2941   9,041
2002                   0      901      1240         0      355     2414-  11793       299t,,,j M04
2003                   0      901   "'1240          0      355     2416    11783   ,294 PI' 8041
2005                   0       901,    1240         0 O    355   2416  11783           294      86041
2005                   0      got1    1260'        01    35        2416    11783  .2994    -8041          -
2007                   0    /o 001     1240         0,    355      2416    11793       2984    -8041"- 
2009                   0      901.    1260         0       355      2416    11793  jj2984       9041"
2009                   0    >01,    1260            0      355     2416    11793       204      94
20109                  0      bl       1260        0       355     241.S    11-793     294      9041
2010                   0      '001     1240         0      355     24th8   11783       2984     s04l
2012                   0      901      1260        0       35      2414    11783       2984     9041
2013                   0      901      1260         0      355     2414    11793       2984     8041
2014                   0      801      1240        0       35m     2416    11783       k 94H    0041
2014                   0      901 "1240             0              2416    11783       2994    92041
'2016                  0       901     1240         0    ~ 5        2416    11793      2994     9041
2017                   0      901      1240        4        55     2416    118        29         041                           -
2019                          Sol 9 1  260         0       355,   2416    11783        2984     0041
20198                  0       01      1260        0   ..355       2416    11793.   2994        9041
220019                  0 901            1260        0    355.       2416    11793,  2994         9041
2 20210                  0       901     1260         0      355     2416    11783       2994     0041
2022                   0       901'    1240        0.      355     2416    11793      2904      8041
2023                   0      901-   1260          0"'   355       2414,  11783       29"4      08041
-2024                   0      901      1240        0       355     2414    11793      2994      9041
2025                   0       90101240             0      355     2416    11703       2904     904
2026                   0      90l      1240       .0       355     2414    11703       2904     8041
2027                   0      So1      1240       &.       355     2414    1179       2994      9041
2029                   0'-    901      1260        0       355     2416    M79        2994      9041
PRR           42      122



-92-
ANNEX 6.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
,                   \         INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Documents and Data Available,in Project File
1.  Special Report on Sharavathi Tail Race ltydro-Electric Project by KPC.
2.  Environmental Assessment Report for the Sharavathi Tailrace Scheme.
x-. Compensatory Afforestation Plan.
4.  Ecologist's Consultant Report - Evaluation of Environmental Assessment
Report and Compens,gtory Afforestation.
5.  Report on Tidal Effects on Tail-Water Conditions by KPC.
6.  Augmentation of Bangalore Power System to Meet the Load Demands for
1995-2000 AD by Kp_-? -
7.  Transmission Lines and Substations Outside Bangalore by KEB.
8.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates.,
"9. -pporting Schedules for Financial Projections.
If1
I)



INDIA
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT,
GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION COMPONENTS
. ,jew .e _ *  _   'hmP u-IP ti IIs
*    .        . .        awb ... ........  ....._,.  
, O             *   O          *   , A,a0  0    0aok Mmsv
-               G        -w 400Ws                                                         ' 'a-   
=4    w                             lek    wX- o                    
-    -~~~-  220 w
"OW    brur
okm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. y # #/ D^biS J                              ue -.,;.  fv   ............    eve
F.        \      ,.                                             ANDHRA
PRADESH
,,*                                                                                 0 L   9 S ,   X,   g   , o  *   .  
A,rcwbic,'n'         \h@                     vSXt,                        ^     h>0                   ,
>  ~  .)  b         2. .0     KERALA7'1yQ                                        ~- 
s 4*       '          ;i C                                               .



IBRD 20893
SECOND KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Pow Atbd Aj    < \       /                  '               ~              ¢ {               ' ^     "/         ''               ijd nShoravathi Tailrace  Project
(md Poe Hwou
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x2 W 7,
0- Mkd A.Vh                                                                                                                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
MCIb3Vf ts 2=5/° \ * )1{
ft-.d         < --
V-1-ba          AIWAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTE MAW~IM. ~
APIL 1988



