Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2938 IN
                 (Second Karnataka Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                        Dated July 27, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2938 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  27,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and KARNATAKA POWER
CORPORATION LIMITED (the Corporation), a company established under
the Companies Act, 1956, of the Borrower.
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  two  hundred sixty
million dollars ($260,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Corpo-
ration agree to undertake such  obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the  Project, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Karnataka (Karnataka)
the proceeds of the Loan as provided for in the Loan Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between Karnataka and the Corporation, part of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
by Karnataka to the  Corporation  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Corporation,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's
entering  into  the  Loan  Agreement  with  the  Borrower  and the
Karnataka Agreement with  Karnataka,  has  agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. The Corporation  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering  and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  Schedule  to the
Karnataka Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Corporation shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to  insurance,  use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in  respect  of the Project Agree-
ment and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  The  Corporation  shall  duly  perform all its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the  Corporation  shall  not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The  Corporation  shall,  at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the  Bank with regard to progress of
the Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Corporation shall  promptly  inform  the Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the purposes of
Loan, or the  performance  by  the  Corporation of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. The  Corporation  shall,  by  October 31, 1989,
enter into contractual arrangements  satisfactory  to the Bank for
the repair works included under  Part  A (iii) of the Project, and
to that end, shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to entering into
such arrangements, satisfactory  proposals  for  carrying out said
Page  3
repairs.
                            ARTICLE III
           Management and Operations of the Corporation
     Section 3.01. The Corporation  shall  carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. The Corporation shall  at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. The  Corporation  shall  take  out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Without  limiting  the  generality of the fore-
going provisions  of  this  Article,  the  Corporation shall under
arrangements satisfactory to the  Bank  cause the dams and related
structures constructed under Part A  of the Project to be periodi-
cally inspected in accordance  with  sound engineering practice in
order to  determine  whether  there  are  any  deficiencies in the
condition of such structures,  or  in  the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or  methods  of  operations  of  the  same,  which may
endanger their safety. To this  end, the Corporation shall propose
to the Bank  appropriate  arrangements  for  the  Bank's review no
later  than  one  year  before  the  expected  completion  of such
structures.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Corporation shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Corporation shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related  statements)  for  each  financial year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a)  The  Corporation  shall  take from time to
time  all  such  measures  as   may  be  necessary  including,  if
necessary, adjustment of tariffs of the Corporation to ensure that
the total revenues  in  any  financial  year shall, after meeting:
(i)  all  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  revenues,  including
operating  maintenance  and  management  expenses;  (ii)  taxes on
Page  4
income and profits; (iii)  depreciation; and (iv) interest payable
on all debentures, bonds and loans; produce such surplus as is not
less than 3% of the net fixed assets of the Corporation in service
at the beginning of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "total revenues" means  revenues of the Corporation
               from the sale  of  electricity  and other services,
               miscellaneous income, and such other subventions as
               shall be  made  in  respect  of extraordinary costs
               which are borne by the Corporation and which should
               not reasonably be borne  by customers of the Corpo-
               ration;
         (ii)  "expenses" means the cost of power purchased, fuel,
               operating, maintenance,  management and administra-
               tive expenses, and  all  taxes  and duties accruing
               during the  financial  year,  other  than  taxes on
               income and profits of the Corporation;
        (iii)  "taxes on income  and  profits"  consists of income
               taxes and other  levies  accrued by the Corporation
               according to the  provisions  of any legislation or
               regulation applicable in this respect;
         (iv)  "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accor-
               dance with the  straight-line  method  based on the
               useful  life  of   assets   as  stipulated  in  the
               Borrower's     notification     G.S.R.     244(E)-F
               No. 25(9)82-D(SEB)  dated  March  31,  1985, issued
               under the provisions  of  Section  68  of the Elec-
               tricity (Supply) Act  1948,  of the Borrower, based
               on  the  gross  value  of  the  Corporation's fixed
               assets in service at the beginning of each year;
          (v)  "interest  payable  on  all  debentures,  bonds and
               loans"  means  all   interest,  excluding  interest
               during  construction,  accrued  by  the Corporation
               during the financial year  and all other charges on
               debt; and
         (vi)  "net fixed assets  of  the  Corporation in service"
               means the original  cost  of  such fixed assets, as
               reduced  by   the   aggregate   of  the  cumulative
               depreciation in respect of such assets.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Corporation thereunder  shall  terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Corporation thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Page  5
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Corporation:
          Karnataka Power Corporation Limited
          Bangalore
          Karnataka, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               KPC                             0845-687
               Bangalore
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such  other  person  or persons as the Corporation
shall designate in writing,  and  the Corporation shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
