of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8336
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2375-IND)
JANUARY 26, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:  Appraisal (February 1983)         US$1.00 = Rp 970
March 31, 1983- September 11. 1986  US$1.00 = Rp 909-1100
September 12, 1986 - present       US$1.00 = Rp 1640-1750
Fiscal Year of Borrower. GOI: April 1 - March 31
Weights and Measures: Metric System
GLOSSARY
Dinas        -  Service of the Provincial Govenmment
Diperta      -  Provincial Agricultural Service
Kecil        -  Small (irrigation scheme)
Sadang       -  Medium (irrigation scheme)
Sawah        -  Lowland rice fields with bunds                                       -
.
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS     -  National Development Planning Agency
Binlak II    -  Directorate of Medium and Small Scale Irigation Construction
of DOI
DAAD         -  Directorate of Agricultural and Area Development
DGA          -  Directorate General of Agranra
DGFCA        -  Directorate Geneml of Food Crops and Agriculture
DGWRD        -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DOI          -  Directorate of Irrigation
DPP          -  Directorate of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD)
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
HYV          -  High Yield Varieties of Rice
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOPW         -  Ministry of Public Works
M&E          -  Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M          -  Opertion and Maintenance
PRAS         -  Provincial Agricultural Service
PRIS         -  Provincial Irrigation Service
Repelita     -  National five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89)



FOR OFFCAzL use ONLY
THE WORLO BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
oWr.i of Dwectt-C'waI
Oputat.om Evahateont
January 26, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Second
Provincial-Irrigation-Development Proiect (oan 2375-1ND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Second Provincial Irrigation
Development Project (Loan 2375-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCUiL USE ONLY
MONEMLA
SEC OND; PBVN           IRRIGTION DE,2MO PROJE(r
(Lan2   15-IND)
Tablew of Contents
Pam o
Preface   ...............................................................           (i)
Evaluation Sununmary .........................................................     (i)
PART T:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity;.I
Backgound.1.................................................
Project Objecves and Desrpn.................................................. I
Pojecst Design and Organization....................-2
Project Inplernentaiion .3................................................  2
Pmject Results.6................................................. 
Project Sustainabiliry.7.................................................  6
Bank Pformance ...............         ..................................  8
Borrower Performance .      .................................................  9
Project Relationships  ....................  .............................  11
Consulting Services ...................    ...............................  11
Project Documentation and Data .................................................  12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General .....................................................              13
Project Preparation         .........................................      13
Project Implementation ..................         ....................     14
Project Pesults       ......................   .......................     16
Project Sustainability ..................         ....................     17
Bank Performance       ....................    .......................     17
Borrower Performance        ...................   .....................    17
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table IL         Related Bank Loans and Cnrdits .19
Table 2.         Project Timble .20
Table 3.         Loan Disbursements .20
Table 4.         Project Implementation .21
Table 5.         Project Costs and Fancing..     .
A - Project Costs                                     22
B - Project Financing                                 23
C - Loan Disbrserment Categories                      23
Table 6.         Project Reslsts.
A - Direct Benefits                                   24
B - Econonic Impart                                   25
C  Financial Impact                                   25
D - Studies and Institutional Support                 26
Table 7.         Record of Compliance with Major Covenants .27
Table 8.         Use of Staff Resoures .
A - Staff Inputs                                      28
B - Bank Missions                                     29
C - Costs                                             29
Annex I         Sumnary of Status of Sub-Project Physical Status (3 Tables)        30
Annex 2         Summary Status of Costs by Sub-Projects (2 Tables) .33
Annex 3         Sumay of ERRs of Sub-Projects (2 Tables) .35
Figures I and 2           Location of Individual Project Schemes
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2375-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Provincial Irrigation Development Project (SPIDP) in Indonesia, for which
Loan 2375-IND in the amount of US$89.0 million was approved on January 10,
1984. The loan was fuAlly disbursed and closed on December 31, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Division of Asia
Technical Department of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
LOAN 2375 - IND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
The Second Irrigation Development Project (SPIDP) covered by this PCR was the second
provincial operation in small and medium scale inigation in Indonesia supported by the Bank. The
project supported iigation development on the Outer Islands (four provinces on Sumatra and all four
piovinces of Sulawesi). The project evolved from an interest by national and provincial governments to
maintain and improve agricultural (primarily rice) production levels in less developed and isolated
regions of Indonesia. The SPIDP followed the first provincial project (Irrigation XVII Project, Loan
2119-IND, 1982) which supported similar iigation development in the promv  e of East Java.
Objectives.
The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen the irrigation services (PR'S) of the eight provinces
in preparation, implementation and operation and maintenance (O&M) capabilides and (ii) assist in the
financing of a three-year time slice of the construction programs of some 74 small (kecil) and 9 medium
(sedang) irrigation schemes in the project provinces (pars 1.03).
Implementation Experience.
The main expenditure item was construction of small and medium irrigation schemes (para 1.16). There
was a considerable variLdon in implementation quality, as would be expected under a time slice operation
with a large number of small scale schemes spread over eight provinces. Generally, construction of civil
works has been to an acceptable standard but the planning and design of some schemes was less than
satisfactory. A basic variance from the project plan at apprimsal was that main civil works progressed
much quicker than minor works. Consequently, none of the 83 schemes under the SPIDP were fully
completed and developed by Loan closure. Some schemes have deteriorated after construction of main
works because irrigation systems were incompletu; or failed to function as designed. A more serious
problem was the lack of a specific provision for financing land and agricultural development from the
loan proceeds and these essential activities seriously lagged behind the construction of irrigation works.
The underlying implementadon problems have been poor coordination and little cooperation between
Ministries/agencies involved in irrigated agriculturl development and unpredictable budgetary
provisions.
The institutional strengthening/raining components which consisted mainly of technical
assistance with some support for facilities, equipment and vehicles, made little impact . Institutional
strengthening and training activities assumed that the project institutions were already able to function
effectively and required only to be strengthened. This proved to be optimistic and overmed the
institutional capability. At provincial level, most project organizations were unable to take full advantage
of training provisions because of basic constraints with funding, staffing and resources. In particular,
provincial agencies have found it difficult to recruit and place qualified staff in field assignments.
Results.
The reesinaton of the ERRs for small irrigation schemes undertaken for the PCR by
Government of Indonesia (GOI), averages about 16%, which is substantially less than the 32%



anticipated at appraisal (para 1.28). The PCR concludes that the reesdniated ERRs by GOI are likely to
be optimistic since the project developmental impact depends on GOI ar'd provincial authorities taking
appropriate and timely actions to address many lessons 10arnt to date (para 1.29). The shortfall in
reestimated ERRs reflects lower price projections for rice, delayed benefits resulting from slow
implementation, incomplete land and agricultural development, and slower than expected response to
irrigation by farners.
Sustainability.
Shortage of funding and staffing has restricted the operation and maintenance (O&M) of project
irrigation infrastructure (para 1.31). The O&M problems result partly because schemes are not tested
and certified as complete before being handed over to local O&M authorities. When a scheme does not
work as designed, funds have generally not been made available to take remedial action. In addition, the
operational principles built into the design of some irrigation schemes cannot be efficiently managed by
typical O&M staff available at scheme level. However, corrective actions should not be technically
difficult because most schemes are simple and O&M requirements are relatively straightforward. ITe
situation would improve if GOI provided sufficient funding and staffing for efficient O&M during both
the implementation and post construction periods.
Findings and Lessons Learnt.
The project has not perforned as envisaged at appraisal, but many problems result from
subsector/generic causes and could not be tackled at a specific project level. Five important lessons for
the Borrower that need attention are that: (i) the interface between irrigation and agriculture needs to be
substantially strengthened; (ii) government agencies focus on expenditures (through target oriented work
programs) with little interest in achieving polcntial benefits from irrigated agriculture; (iii) there is a basic
lack of coordination between technical Ministries/agencies involved in inrigated agricultual development;
(iv) monitoring and evaluation of all project aspects needs to be considerably strengthened; (v) reliance
on excessive technical assistance by GOI may have weakened the technical capability of institutions since
consultants often substitute for national staff in routine planning, design and supervision tasks.
It was assumed at appraisal that: (i) expenditures in irrigation infrastructure would generate
irrigated agricultural benefits without financing other non-irrigation activities and (ii) institutional
capability was effective enough for agencies to be strengthened mainly through training. Both
assumptions proved to be optiuistic. The Bank also underestimated the risks at appraisal related to: (i)
the quality oe the planning and design of small and medium irigation schemes; (ii) the coordination
benween the agencies involved in the project; (iii) and the commitment to the project of agencies involved
in irrigated agricultural development, but not supported under the project. In addition, the Bank
supervision r,as weak, particularly to initiate the implementation stage and confirn that all agencies
involved understood their commitments and obligations. If supervision had been stronger, many project
problems may have been identified and addressed much earlier. One reason why project shortcomings
were not given much attendon by the Bank was that SPIDP was the best disbursing operation in the
Indonesian irrigation subsector.
An important project a .hievement has been to focus attention of GOI and the Directorate General
of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) on the causes of some problems and issues contributing to
the poor performance of the irrigation subsector. The most encouraging outcome has been that GOI has
started to recognize the importance of the lessons learnt and has shown willingness to take remedial
actions. An example has been the new GOI policy to speed up land clearance and development by
undertaking these works at public expense (with costs to be recovered later). Another encouraging sign
is an improvement in the monitoring and evaluation of project performance with most project problems
idendfied by a tchnical status survey undertaken by GOT/DGWRD. Perhaps the most encouraging sign
is that the Borrower has sought Bank support for a follow-up project specifically aimed at addressing the
lessons leamt by the Borrower under SPIIDP.



PART I
P'ROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTV
jEwct Idendtiy
Project Name      Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (SPIDP)
Loan No.    :     2375- IND
RVP Urt     :     Asia
Country           Indonesia
Sector            Agriculture
Subsector         Irrigation
Backgrund
1.01 SectorQbQiec. The Government's majorobjectives for the agriculture sectorduring the
project period and under the last Five Year Plan (Repelita IV) were to: {i) increase production to meet
domestic requirements for food while ineeting the needs for industry and expanding agricultural
exports; (ii) increase farmees incomes and generate employment; (iii) promote a more balanced
distribution of economic opportunities, regional development and land settlement through
transmigntion; (iv) contribute to health and better nutritonal status of the population; and (v) ensure
productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
1.02  Policy Context and Intersectoral Linkages. Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian
economy, contributing about one-fourth of GDP and providing employment to some 55% of the labor
force. Since 1969, agricultural growth has averaged about 4% p.a. and outpaced population growth
by a significant margin. Rice output grew at about 5% p.a. since 1969 ( 6.3% since 1975) with rice
production increasing from about i2.2 M tons in 1969 to about 27.2 MA tons in 1987. This has
essentially transformed the country from one of the world's largest importers of rice (about 2.6 M
tons in 1979/80) to one with surpluses in 1985/86. Other food crops have also shown impressive
growth. This performance is the result of sustained Govemment support to the agriculture sector
(especially rice) through large investments in rural infiastructur, particularly irrigation systems,
research and exmension, atid in-put subsidies combined with technological b greakthoughs achieved im
the high yielding varieties. One of the strategic needs is to reduce costs and increase efficiency of
Government interventions to encourage and sustain rice production. This would be achieved by: (i)
addressing the technical problems in field crops for both rainfed and irrigated agriculture; (ii)
encouraging adequate and timely input supplies and related services such as credit and marketing; (iii)
improving the effectiveness of the irrigation development cycle, namely planning, design,
implementation to full completion of works and development of irrigated command areas; and (iv)
sustaining completed schemes. Priority is being given to maintenance of the existing capital stock in
irrigation infrastructure which has been neglected due to inadequate O&M funding and ineffective
utlization of limnited funding which have been made available.
iMject Obiecti  ure whd Deschiabn
1.03 The main project objectives were to strengthen the irrigation services (PRIS) of eight Outer
Island provinces 1/ in project preparation, implementation and operation and maintenance (O&M)
capabilities. A second objective was to assist in financing a three-year time slice of the construction
programs for small (kecil) and medium (sedang) irrigation schemes in the eight provinces.
1.04  At appraisal, the project had six components: (i) institutional strengthening of eight PRIS
through tnaining, support of incremental staff costs and provision of facilities, equipment and
vehicles; (ii) support for the Sub-Directorate of Medium and Small Scale Inigation Construction
(Binlak 11) to assist the PRIS; (iii) design of 10 new small irrigation schemes commanding about
5,000 ha and construction of 80 such schemes serving 34,000 ha; (iv) design of 9 new medium
j/ The provinces of Bengkulu, Riau, and West and South Sumatra on Sumatra and North,
Central, South and South-east Sulewasi of Sulewasi as shown in Figure 1.



-2 -
schernes commanding about 45,000 ha and construction of 6 such schemes serving 26,000 ha; (v)
strengthening the Directorate of Agricultural and Area Development (DAAD) within the Directorate
General of Food Crops az,d Agriculture (DGFCA); and (vi) provision of technical acsistance and
training.
Project Design and Organization
1.05 The project concept originated through lessons learnt by GOI and the Bank under on-going
irrigation projects and an Irrigation Sector Strategy study completed by the Bank in SeptemLter 1982.
The four most pressing weaknesses were identified as overly centralized water resources
organization, weak provincial services, inadequate O&M, and poor use of irigation facilities for
agriculture and by the benefitting farrners. The project concept focused on these subsector issues and
was initially processed as the First Irrigation Subsector Project (para 1.09).
1.06  Project Preparation. In addition to the main focus on institutional strengthening, the project
supported a three year time slice of the small and medium irrigation program under Repelita IV
(1984/85 to 1988/89). The time slice was an investment program defined only in general temis. The
sma" irrigation schemes were not individually identified (except for the first year program) but were
to be chosen by each PRIS annually to selection standards, technical criteria and other implementation
procedures prepared by Bank staff, and agreed by GOI at negotiations. The project analysis for small
irrigation development was based on a model scheme with assumed performance data. The six
medium schemes for construction had already been prepared and appraised by DWGRD with
assistance of foreign consultants. All schemes were to have a projected ERR of at least 12%, no
social problems, and a maximum of 5% of land under permanent crops. Institutional strengthening
components appear to be mainly prepared by Bank staff.
1.07 Organization. The DGWRD through the Directorate of Irrigation (DOT) was responsible for
proje-t coordination, with its Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP) unit responsible for
evaluation and appraisal of the proposed small and medium irrigation schemes. Each PRIS was
responsible for implementation of all work in their respective prowinces. 'IThe DGFCA through DAAD
and the Provincial Agriculture Services (PRAS or Diperta) was responsible for land clearing, sawah
(rice field) formation and farner advisory components, none of which were originally supported
under the Loan (para 1.10). The DOI and after Loan amendment, DAiAD, were to channel the Loan
proceeds and local funding to provincial agencies. This was in line with GOI's requirement that only
central govermnent entities can administer external assistance.
1.08 Appraisal Process. The Staff Appraisa' Report (SAR) was comprehensive and presented the
project as a subsector operation as originally conceived by the Bank. The presentation implied that
Government would or could undertake detailed and thorough preparation as required. Project
implementation proved this not to be the case. One reason for this shortcoming was that almost all
project preparation was by DGWRD or by the individual PRIS for civil works activities with little
substantive input by other agencies inivolved in agriculture and settlement. The SAR indicates that
many basic technical standards and policy, procedural and institutional issues had been fully explored
and agreed by Govemme. t and the participating agencies. Again, project implementation proved this
not to be the case. Many implementation problems appear to have been caused by insufficient time or
attention by Government during the preparation and appraisal process to fully evaluate the practicality
and constraints of the project package. Many issues, which subsequently became project problems,
were queried during the appraisal process, particularly by Bank staff located in Jakarta. Somehow
these concems got lost under the tight time frame as the appraisal moved towards negotiations.
1.09  The project was originally called First Inigation Subsector at appraisal and later renamed
Second Provincial Irigation Development Project (SPIDP). There did not appear to be strong
justification for dropping the subsector name. One reason given was that new (Government)
regulations for national staff would restrict staff benefits and it was thought that experienced staff
could not be posted to the Outer Islands. Although this reason was not relevant to whether the project
was a subsector or specific investment operation, it did have important project implications. It implied
that the institutional strengthening of PRIS would be more risky than assumed at appraisal. The



project name was also changed to reflect Bank concems that it would be difficult to promote a sector
operation in Indonesia which focused on small and medium scale irrigation. There were serious
questions as to whether GOI was ready for an irrigation subsector operation in 1982/3 and whether a
project spread over eight provinces could be coordinated and managed by Government. There were
also strong reservations as to whether the project could be supervised with the Bank resources likely
to be available. Bank staff even recommended that intensive supervision by GOI should be included
as a project component, but this was not pursued. In the end, the project name was changed to
SPIDP. rt was characterized as a specific investment operation, but without change to the original
sector scope or scale decided at appraisal.
1.10  A critical change from appraisal to negotiations was elimination of funding support for the
land and agricultural development components (institutional strengthening of DAAD and PRAS). The
position taken by GOIIBAPPENAS,and strongly supported by some Bank staff in the resident office,
was that these components would be better supported through Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). It was
argued that a preferred solution would be to include these components under a free-standing, nation
wide project supported by the Bank. This did not materialize. It was finally agreed that the land and
agricultural components would be financed through savings under the on-going National Agricultural
Extension 11 Project, (Ln 996-IND, US$42.0, 1980) and then under the follow up NAEP 111
Project which was under preparation. These arrangements were not followed up. To summarize, the
agricultural components were left in the project description but not supported under the project. Not
surprisingly, since there was no funding in the project for DGFCA and no one represented MOA at
negotiations, the project was forgotten by DAAD and PRAS. A supervision mission, nearly three
years later in December 1986, discovered this gap in the nroject They noted that the critical link
between investments and benefits, namely land and agrica'tural development, was missing, or at the
best giv'en otminal and uncoordinated attention. Subsequently, the Loan was amended in April 1987
to incl..- ,iculture components, but with poor coordination and little interest by DWGRD in
agricultural performance of irrigation projects, the change was too late to make much impact.
1.11  Just prior to negotiations, GOI/BAPPENAS took a position that foreign consultants should be
eliminated from the technical assistance package. It was argued that the project works were simple
and that with all the previous technical assistance, DGWRD should be able to undertake training of
PRIS themselves, perhaps with some assistance from local consultants. The Bank strongly resisted
this position and argued, inter alia, that foreign consultants (who were already identified) were
essential to train the local (expert) trainers. The DGWRD supported the Bank's position. It was
argued that technical assistance/consultants were needed because DGWRD staff would not act as
trainers since there was no incentive to persuade skilled staff to move to the Outer Islands.
Nonetheless, DGWRD stated that its staff could be seconded to the local training consultant since the
firm would offer better tenr,--s and conditions than those of CGovernment. Retention of training
consultants was made a Condition of Effectiveness. Delays by GOI to act on this condition caused
effectiveness to be postponed twice.
Project Implementation
1.12 General, The overriding problem which has limited the development impact of the project has
been lack of coordination between the various GOI agencies and within the agencies. The DGWRD
was supposed to take on this responsibility for overall coordination and arrangements were agreed for
quarterly coordination meetings at national level and monthly meetings at provincial levels. In
practice, effective coordination at project implementation level did not exist. The national agencies
within the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture and Transmigration and the provincial agencies did
not (a~.nd still do not) have formal working arrangements for effective cooperation. Each agency was
primarily interested in its own activity with limited interest in the overall perfomance of the project.
Consequently, the work programs of each agency continued on separate parallel tracks reflecting
unpredictable budget provisions and general constraints related to staffing, resources and facilities.
1.13 Successful provincial irrigation development depended on strengthening provincial agencies
so that they could do the job. For this to work, a strong coordinating agency was also needed in each
province with the authority and power to organize and coordinate all the project tasks. This authority



-4-
was not there. Coordination problems were compounded through the project implementation period
by poor monitoring and unreliable data collection. The GO/ DGWRD did not know or seriously
question what was going on well enough to ioentify problems and plan corrective action.
Unfortunately one indicator of implementation progress, the pace of disbursements, was particularly
successful and may have misled both GOI and the Bank.
1.14  Institudonal Strengthening. The most critical variance between planned and actual project
implementation was achiev( .uents under the institutional strengthening components. Tl.e main
element of this activity was a consultancy to undertake: (; formal training at the Ministry of Public
Works Regional Training centers; (ii) special training in the PRIS; and (iii) on-the-job training for
PRTS staff. This consultancy did not achieve the objectives set out under the terms of reference or at
appraisal. All Bank reviews of the training components rt'ord that they made nominal impact.
1.15  Fonnal training at national and provincial levels is recorded as having made little measurable
impact on institutional efficiency. The consultants simply reported performance in tenms of the
number of staff processed without any diagnostic evaluation of 0'; training impact. The national level
programs seemed to have made no measurable impact on the performance of the units from which the
trainees were sent. At the provincial level, the organizations were generally not able to take advantage
of 'he training provision. Most training material and programs assumed that the provincial services
were already able to function effectively and that training would improve the efficiency. This proved
to be optimistic. For example, key traiiiing areas under on-the-job training of PRIS were O&M, land
development and water management. In 1987/88, no project irrigation scheme could be found in any
province that could be operated as designed. Consequently, t-ainers could not demonstrate their
training objectives. The problems and delays with land and agricultural development meant that
efficient water management at field level could not be demonstrated. During implementation, the
consultants (and the Bank) should have recognized the constraints inherent in the training tasks and
either sought revision of the terms of reference or the consultant's contract should have been amended
or terminated. Finally, the consultants should not have been selected by carrying over from another
training consultancy without a thorough evaluation of their previous performance.
1.16  Civil Works. The main expenditu.-e item was construction of small and medium irrigation
schemes. There has been considerable variation in implementation quality, as would be expected
under a time slice operation with a large number of small scale schemes spread over eight provinces.
A basic variance from project planning has been that main civil works progressed much quicker than
minor works. This has been primarily due to the way the works were contracted. For most schemes,
there were one or more main contracts for the diversion structure and main canal system with tertiary
and minor works (when built) undertaken by many small local contractors. Main civil works are
generally of reasonable quality, but with considerable variation between schemes and provinces.
Given the remote and isolated locations of most schemes and difficulty of site management and
supervision, implementation has been better than might be expected. Some schemes have deteriorated
after construction of main works, because system operation failed to function as planned and most
schemes lacked proper maintenance. Poor design of tertiary systems and minor drainage is
widespread reflecting a lack of attention to minor works. The land cleared has hardly increased over
that already developed as sawah (rice fields) before the project started (about 43% of the planned
irrigation area). The delays in land development have compounded the problems of completing tertiary
canal systems which cannot be built and sustained through standing forest or shrub. Experience has
shown that if the tertiary canal system is not fully completed, efficient O&M becomes virtually
impossible.
1.17  Land and Agricultural Development. In December 1986, almost three years after appraisal,
with some 23 of the 84 schemes reportcd as complete by DGWRD, it was discovered that the
agricultural and settlement agencies did not know of the project or where the individual schemes were
located. Trhe Loan Agreement was consequently amended to include agriculture co.nponents under
DAAD (para 1.10) as conceived at appraisal but dropped at negotiations. Wit} more attention to land
development under a DGWRD survey, it was discovered that it was taking on average 5 to 7 years
from initial survey to complete land and agricultural drvelopment when farmers use the credit system.
The survey identified that agro-social constraints to aci-ieving full develoFment of schemes included



slow settlement, clumbersome land titling procedures, and complica: i land clearance and
development processes. Consequently, these activities seriously lagged civil works programs.
A Bank supervision mission also pointed out that civil works cost on average about US$ 2,200 per ha
and full development of the land about US$ 350 per hectare. Thus if the land development process
took only five years, the interest on the capital investment before any benefits accrued would be about
US$ 1,500 per hectare. Clearly, the policy of leaving land development up to the farmers thrr- .,h
private funding did not make financial sense to Govermnen; when the result was unacceptabif slow
development of irrigation schemes.
1.18   The incomplete tertiary systems have meant that the irrigation service is geneiaIJy unreliable.
As a result many farmers, (particularly tail-enders), are reluctant to make the considerable efforts or
take the risks of using credit to clear land and prepare their holdings for irrigation. With no real
accountability for project performance, there is no urgency for Government agencies to complete the
minor works to provide a reliable service to all the command area. lnc_ mplete command areas then
obviate the need. for efficient O&M because there is usually sufficient or surplus water for the limited
area which can be irrigated. On some schemes, land development problems are compounded because
there is a shortage of settlers/farners and provide another reason for no urgency to fully develop the
command area (para 1.27).
1.19  Operation and Maintenance. Ineffective O&M was identified as a nation wide ri.s at appraisal
that would be reduced through the institutional strengthening components and by in',olving f mrers
more closely in the scheme management. The risk analysis at appraisal concluded that a typical scheme
would remain viable even if O&M did not improve. Hopefully this conclusion remains valid today
because the project has made little impact on O&M which has deteriorated because of constraints in
funding, staffing and resources. One unresolved problem is that project supported schemes cannot be
easily separated out for special O&M treatment because the field level O&M units are responsible for
many otaer schemes. It is generally not possible to apply different staffing, funding and resource
norms to schemes for practical and political reasons.
1.20 The O&M has also been less than successful because of technical issues including: (i) no clear
understanding of operating principies of schemes; (ii) premature handing over from DGWRD to PRIS
of incomplete schemes which cannot work as designed; and (iii) whether the design principles of small
and isolated schemes are appropriate for efficient O&M. Almost all small schemes are being randomly
operated to respond to farmers demand for water since there are no operational plans that can be
understood and used by typical field staff, In many cases, there is doubt that schemes could be
managed any other way because O&M staff cannot enforce the required discipline. Since all project
schemes are run as simple 'on-demand' systems, the role of PRIS staff is limited to maintenance. This
is usually limited to curative maintenance because of 0&M funding constraints.
1.21  It is concluded that that O&M staff are not able (and will probably never be able) to enforce
discipline on remote schemes unless farrners decide that equity and ti discipline required is to their
collective advantage. This only seems to occur when water supply is sufficient to exceed any demand.
Thus the operation of project schemes does not reflect the operating principles implicit in the 'Pasten
System' which is the official procedure said to be designed into the schemes. Under this procedure,
irrigation staff are supposed to calculat'. and control water supply at each gate so that it matches crop
requirements through the growth cycle. One critical assumption that field staff will collect sufficient
reliable data for the 'Pasten' operation procedure to be followed in meaningful way. This is beyond the
ability of most field staff and anyway could not be enforced by supervisors. This means that the local
consultants responsible for scheme designs were out of touch with reality.
1.22 Another problem, unforeseen at appraisal and with subsector wide implications, has been a
lack of attention to O&M of irrigation works during construction and before schemes are handed over
for routine O&M by PRIS. Construction staff give alrost total priority to new works. The problem is
particularly damaging when completion of schemes is suspended or delayed because of funding,
technical or coordination problems. Schemes need a specific provision for transitional O&M and
responsibility for this task must be clearly defined.



- 6-
1.23 Rporting and Monitoring. By late 1987, it was obvious to both the Bank and DGWRD that
the project status could not be established with any certainty. Almost every report revised or
contradicted previous progress data. Information could not be successfully consolidated project wide
because each province seemed to have a different format, time base and procedure for processing
data. For example, there were often doubts whether planned work programs in progress reports
related to actual budget provisions or were the basis for budget requests. Most information related to
physical or financial progress of civil work programs with virtually no reliable data on project
performance. In addition, there are widespread problems with the quality and quantity of O&M data
which is generally of little value to management. The most serious shortfaLl has been an almost total
lack of diagnostic reporting and evaluation.
1.24 One encouraging sign is that the importance of information gap on project implementation and
performance has been being recognized by GOI. Early in 198 1, DGWRD responded quickly and
retained consultants to undertake a thorough survey of all 84 project schemes. The excellent survey
took about a year and was completed in March 1989. It was equivalent to a full technical audit and for
the first time established a reliable status of the project. It also identified many causes of the
constraints which had limited or delayed the full completion and development of the project schemes.
The survey results are tabulated in Annex 1.
1.25 The survey concluded that the five *oad problems in project implementaion were: (i)
unimaginative and poor planning and design rather than construction standards; (ii) lack of definite
procedures to confirm completion of schemes; (iii) lack of coordinated programs to fillly develop the
command areas; (iv) inadequate provision for O&M; and (v) poor monitoring of performance. The
main causes of these problems were: physical limitations including quantity and quality of irrigation
water supplies, flooding, drainage, soil suitability for agriculture, and topography; ago-social and
economic constraints including land clearance and development, settlement, land ownersk  and
farmer motivation to use irrigation ; procedural difficulties including coordination betweeu. Agencies,
planing and programming, funding and quality of investigation and design; technical constraints
including construction standards particularly of the minor canal systems; and the whole concept of
efficient O&M for small isolated schemes. Each of these problems does not apply to every irrigation
scheme surveyed, but were repeated often enough to be classified as generic problems that needed
urgent attention. It was also concluded that none of the 84 schemes were fully complete and thus
could not be operated as designed. Nonetheless, it was concluded that most schemes could be put
right at additional cost and made operational - if the local funding, coordination and management
problems could be resolved. Although DWGRD has initiated and continues to take action to deal with
the problems under its responsibility, little progress has yet been made on the problems of other
agencies.
Project Results
1.26 Introduction. The project was conceived as a time slice operation. It was predicted that
typical schemes would take three to four years to fully complete with an overlapping four years to
fully develop the land and agriculture. Thus the implementation period assumed at appraisal was
conservative. Progress in financial terms was about that expected as reflected by the full
disbursement of the Loan. The main problems affecting physical progress have been the imbalance
between major and minor works and the general lack of coordinated planning of the various work
programs.
1.27 Small and Medium Irrigation Schemes. The command area of small and medium schemes
was esimated at 73,000 ha at appraisal and revised to about 68,200 ha once the actual schemes were
identified. It was expected that with one year extension of the Loan closing date, most of the 84
schemes would be completed. In December 1987, PRIS progress reports recorded that about half the
schemes were complete. The DGWRD status survey has now shown that no schemes are fully
complete and only about 21,100 ha (28%) is being irrigated. Some 34,700 ha (43%) has still to be
cleared and develoved for agriculture and about 8,200 families are needed to settle all the land. On
average about 95% of the main works are reported as complete, together with some 60% of the
tertiary canals and minor drainage works. Of the 84 schemes evaluated under the DGWRD survey,



some 21 schemes are likely to have water shortage compared to design estimates, 14 schemes may
have either flooding or drainage problems and 8 schemes have soil problems. The status and the
various planning and design problems related to individual schemes ar detailed in Annex 1. There is
insufficient information to fully assess how these problems will affect project benefits. However, if
actions are taken to speed up land and agricultural development and settlement, most schemes could
be completed and fully developed by 1992/3.
1.28 Rates of Return. The project economic rate of returns at appraisal and reestimated for the
PCR are summarized in Table 6 (Part III). There is insufficient data to calculate the financial rate of
return. The ERR for small irrigation schemes has been reestimated (by DGWRD consultants) to
average about 16% compared to 32% at appraisal and for medium irrigation schemes at about 17%
compared to 16% at appraisal. There is a considerable range in the PCR estimate of ERRs for the
individual'schemes, varying from 10% to 38% with 5 small schemes which may have a nominal or
negative rate of return (see Annex 3). These possible failures were due to unforeseen technical or
physical problems (still to be more fully evaluated) which either substantially increased costs or
decreased the potendal irrigated areas. The large variation in ERR from appraisal for small irrigation
schemes can be partly explained since the appraisal analysis was based on a model scheme. The
general shortfall in EPRR compared to appraisal also reflects lower price projections for rice than in
1983, delayed benefits resulting from slower implementation to full development, particularly with
respect to land and agricultural components, and slower than expected response to irrigation by
farmers.
1.29 It is concluded that the GOI reestimation of the ERR for the PCR is at best indicative and
likely to be optimistic. In particular, the reestimnated ERR reflects a similar judgement on expected
benefits as at the project appraisal. The PCR analysis has assumed that GOI will complete all work
programs/activities, including land and agricultural devlopment, to the program schedule and at cost
estimates made in the DGWRD status survey (para 1.24). This is probably optimi_.c. In addition,
the PCR reestimation of the ERR has assumed that project lessons learnt to date will be effectively
applied and that GOI and provincial authorities will take appropriate and timely actions. This is
unlikely to happen because there are many policy/project issues (such as improvement to institutional
coordination in inrigated agricultural development) which will not easily be resolved. On the other
hand, there are encouraging signs that GOI has recognized most problems and is becoming
increasingly willing to address the issues (para 1.37).
1.30  Other Proect Results. The main project objective of institutional strengthening of provincial
services through training and other facilities and resources was not successful. All evidence shows
that institutional strengthening components have made little impact. The key element of this
component was formal and on-the-job training through technical assistance (para 1.14). The training
and other iilputs may have marginally improved the institutions. However, the training impact has
been difficult to assess since for the whole project period, the project authorities (particularly at
provincial level) have not been able function effectively beca..se of basic constraints with funding,
staff and resources. Coupled with the weak institutional capability, training has been hampered by
poor coordination and little cooperation between agencies. Many shortfalls in institutional
performance were due to subsector issues and bureaucratic procedures which generally could not be
addressed at the project level. For example, it has proved to be unrealistic to expect Government staff
to work with and stay on small remote irrigation schemes under present terms and conditions of
employment The budgetary process and scarce public funds meant that uncoordinated work
programs became even more unpredictable. Another basic problem has been that staff responsibility
is not clearly defined. With almost complete job security, there has been virtually no accountability
for project or individual staff performance. With these constraints, it would have been surprising if
the institutional strengthening componer s had produced expected benefits.
Project Sustainability
1.31  The project will not be sustainable unless many institutional and technical issues identified in
the DGWRD survey (para 1.24) are addressed and resolved. Govemment must gives the similar
priorities zc delivering project benefits as it does to the investment phase under irrigation development.



-8 -
Schemes need to be verified and certified as functional before being handed over to local O&M
authorities. If the original design does not work, history has shown that it is unlikely that it will be
rectified at some future date. The PRIS must be provided with sufficient funds, staff and resources
so that O&M can be efficient. For small (and even medium) schemes to be sustained in remote and
isolated areas, designs may have to be simplified (even sacrificing technical efficiency) so that site
staff can understand and apply appropiate operating principles and/or farmers can manage smaller
schemes themselves. Finally, there neods to be much stronger coordination between the agencies
responsible for the irrigation service and delivering agricultural benefits. Already there are
encouraging signs that Government recognizes these problems and is initiating actions to address
them. Fortunately, corrective actions should not be difficult because most schemes are technically
simple and management requirements relatively straightforward. It is therefore concluded that if
appropriate action is taken by Government, most project schemes should maintain an acceptable level
of net economic benefits through the project life.
Bank Perforrnance
1.32 Project Preparation. The project concept to support irrigation development on the Outer
Islands was, and continues to be, a sound proposition. However, project implementation was only
prtly successful in fulfilling this objective. The processes, procedures and technical standards
detailed in the SAR were reasonable and agreed with Government under specific conditionalities. The
flaw in the project preparation was the assumption that the various Ministries/agencies would fully
cooperate and be committed to achieving the project developmental impact rather than delivering their
own work programs. In  ticular, it was assumed that a Government agency (DGWRD) would be
able, and had the authorit .o coordinate the development program. This risk should have been
recognized at the preparation stage since it appears that the Bank had to mainly function as the
coordinating agency during preparation.
1.33  Appraisa . In the subsector approach to appraisal, the practical difficulties of delivering the
project objectives over eight provinces were under rated. This may have been because works were
small and seemed too simnple for anything serious to go wrong, particularly when compared to the
extensive Bank involvement in the irrigation subsector at the time of appraisal. The Bank's belief in
Gors commitment to the main project objective -- to strengthen institutions -- appears to have been
optimistic, particularly with respect to the capability of provincial agencies at the field/scheme level on
the Outer Islands. With hindsight, much of the strengthening seemed to depend on weak institutions
pulling themselves up by their own boot laces. The Bank should have given more attention to
warnings of the potential institutional problems by Jakarta based (Bank) staff and more thoroughly
analyzed why Government signalled that it was not happy .vith the technical assistance component.
1.34  Supervision. It was debated during appraisal whether the Bank could effectively supervise the
project with typical staffing norms for specific investment opend.ions. Experienced Bank staff
believed that to be supervised effectively, the project would require 30 to 35 staff weeks a year.
However once the project became effective, it seemed to be almost forgotten by the Bank. The first
full review mission did not take place until November 1986, some 35 months after Board approval.
During this critical period, only 17 staff weeks were used for Bank supervision including
considerable staff time dealing with routine activities including procurement. This compares with an
allocated supervision time of about 47 staff weeks through this period, while that judged as necessary
by project Bank staff was about 90 staff weeks. Since it was known that supervision resources
would be limited, an unrealistic (implied) assumption by the Bank was strong project management
and supervision by the Borrower.
1.35  Lessons Len The Bank underestimated a key project risk that the successful
implementation and sustainability of the main investments (construction of irrigation schemes) would
depend on effective and coordinated institutions. This did not exist at the time of appraisal and is stiU
a basic problem. It is concluded that a subsector type operation for small and medium irigation
development on the Outer Islands may have been premature at the point of time when SPIDP was
appraised. It is also clear that the project was seriously under-supervised during the critical period
after the project was approved by the Board. In particular, this type of project would have greatly



-9 -
benefited from strong Bank supervision to initiate the implementation stage and confurn that all
agencies involved understood their commitments and obligations. It is therefore not surprising that
many problems developed unchecked and the project diverted from the plan envisaged at appraisal.
Borrower Performance
1.36 The project performance is typical of small and medium scale irrigation development on the
Outer Islands. The focus has been given to investment activites with insufficient attention to whether
thes' investments delivered benefits through increased agricultural production. There has been no real
accountability for project performance since the Ministry spending the money (Public Works) is not
responsible fo- delivering the benefits (Agriculture). Lack of attention to the development impact of
the project has meant no urgency to address the causes of problems 'hich have dominated the
Borrower's performance through the project period.
1.37 Borrower's Strengths. All of the Borrower's institutions had (and still have) the potential
capability to successfully implement there own works programs or activities under SPIDP since these
are technically simple and straightforward. Clearly the project has not performed as envisaged at
appraisal but rost problems could not be tackled at a specific project level. Perhaps the most
encouraging outcome has been that Government has started to recognize the significance of the
lessons learnt, not only for the project but through the irrigation subsector. Once lessons or problems
were identified, GOI has shown willingness to take remedial actions. An important example has been
the new GOI policies to speed up land clearance and agricultural development by undertaing these
works at public expense. Under the next five-year plan (Repelita V), Government plans to fully
develop some 375,000 ha of uncleared land within existing irrigated command areas. Another
example of action is the DGWRD status survey described in para (1.24). Perhaps the most
encouraging sign is that Government has sought Bank support for a follow-up project specifically
aimed at addressing the lessons learnt by the Borrower under SPIDP.
1.38 Lessons Learnt The project schemes did not appear to get special treatment and thus the
Borrower's performance not only reflects the project situation, but also reflects on generic problems
and constraints in the irrigation subsector. The main lessons relate to: (i) project coordination; (ii)
local funding and the budgetary process; (iii) manpower and terms of employment; (iv) institutional
responsibility and accountability; (v) the role of technical assistance; (vi) appropriateness of the project
technology; (vii) completing development and sustaining irrigation schemes; (viii) monitoring and
reporting; and (viii) the need for diagnostic evaluation.
1.39 Project Coordination. The developmental impact of this project (and the irrigation subsector)
depended on effective coordination and cooperation between the Ministries of Public works,
Agriculture and Transmigration and the Provincial authorities. Through the whole implementation
period, pinject coordination was ineffective. The DGWRD was not successful in its task as the
agency responsible for project coordination. Each organization followed 'ts own budget provision,
program and priorities and functioned as if each project activity was self-contained. Once an agency
had secured a budget provision for a year, the overriding aim seemed to be to fully utilize the allocated
funds in t: fiscal year irrespective of progress of parallel, inter-related activities. When program
changes were necessary, agencies were generally unable or unwilling to modify their own programs,
which made voluntary coordination difficult and ineffective.
1.40  Local Fundingand the Budgetary irocess. Lack of local funding for key activities has been
an important project constraint, particularly for settlement and agricultural development which were
not inidally supported under the project. The generic funding problems consist of two parts, namely
availability of funds and the budgetary process. Both problen.s are compounded by the inadequate
coordination at project, provincial and national levels. The annual budget process in Indonesia is
long-winded with burdensome procedures and deliberations. Final budget commitments are made at a
level in the Ministries involved which is isolated from any deep understanding of the problems or
requirements of a specific project - particularly for a project with many scattered small schemes. It is
concluded that for SPIDP, the budgetary process has been seen primarily as an instrument to allocate
funds and the approved budget as the document for authorization of specific expenditures and for



- 10-
contTol of annual spending. If a specific activity is not included in the annual provision, usually
nothing happens, irrespective of the priority that the item may have in terms of overall project
implementation. Under th^ SPDP, the budgetary process has not been seen or used as an essential
tool of management to control and focus perfomiance. Given the budgetaly process, it is
understandable why project staff in the various Ministries/agencies have been generally unable to
match budget allocations with project requirements and why each project activity proceeded
independently as a direct response to its annual budget allocations.
1.41  Staffing. A basic problem under present terms and conditions of GOI employment is to place
and keep qualified staff in unattractive areas. This would include almost all scheme locations under
SPIDP. Inability to provide staff incentives, limited career prospects and insufficient resources, all
contr.bute to the manpower problem. Staff want to be located where they can live to reasonable
standards. The motivation which seems to drive many poorly paid national staff is not project
performance,?.t too often, the need to supplement their Govemment incomes. The preferred actions
of professional staff - project management and administration - do not take place in the project scheme
areas. The staffing problems are compounded by no real accountability for performance. Staff
morale is affected by lirnited, unpredictable and often ineffective stipport from provincial and central
agencies involved in a specific project. Work responsibilities are generally not clearly defined. Thus,
shortcomings of individual staff can always be blamed on someone else since there is no real
coordination or responsibility for performance. Surprisingly, the numerous and expensive consultant
studies in Indonesia have not effectively tackled these issues, yet staffing constraints appear to be the
basic cause of many institutional problems.
1.42 Technical Assistance. There is growing concern that technical capability of the irrigation
institutions/agencies is not improving even with the substantial technical assistance /training provided
under numerous projects, loans and grants. Under SP[DP, most assignments undertaken by
consultants could and should have been done by the Ministries/agencies themselves. BAPPENAS
recognized this at appraisal. The role of technical assistance should be to supplement the line
Government agencies bv undertaking specialized studies or specific planning or design tasks. It does
not make sense for foreign and national consulltants to increasingly substitute for, and not assist, in
routine tasks which are squa:ely the responsibility of the line Government departments. It also does
not make sense to rely on _.onsultants when Government institutions do not have the resources (or
sometimes the skills) iv thoroughly evaluate the consultant's work. In many cases, consultants seem
to be treated as if they are contractors and once an assignment is finished, the report is usually
shelved. The problem is illustrated by the fact that with very few exceptions, GOI, the Ministries
concerned, most project staff, and many Bank staff all consider national staff to be counterparts to the
consultants rather than the reverse role. In fact, the project SAR describes national staff as
counterparts to the training consultants. It is concluded that the performance of technical
assistance/consultants needs to be thoroughly reviewed to establish whether objectives of technical
assistance are in the best national interest and what specific benefits are being achieved. In this
respect, it has to be realized that filns of consultants are commercial entities and inevitably the
continuity of their services has to be an important consideration. This may explain why almost every
consultancy identifies the need for more consultancy rather than recommendations to phase out
technical assistance.
1.43 Irrigation Technology. A disconcerting fact is that none of the eight PRIS could identify any
small or medium irrigation scheme (within or outside the project) which functioned as designed and
could be used by the training consultants to demonstrate efficient O&M. One reason for this seems to
be inappropriate technology. Most small and medium project schemes are isolated and yet were
designed as 'technical' schemes with water distribution through canal systems controlled by gated
structures. For all schemes, the implicit operation plan was to match water supply to demand through
a reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service. The 'technical' design of schemes assume that the
water supply would be controlled through a gated distibution system operated to respond to
calculated crop requirements (para 1.21). This requires a level of discipline which apparently cannot
be enforced in remote and isolated areas. It also implies that water rights for individual farmers can be
defined in some meaningful way. Performance of this project questions whether the project design
assumnptions are realistic. At present, most small scale schemes run as simple 'on demand' systems



- 11- 
with irrigation efficiency or social equity being of secondary importance. Few if any schemes have
explicit operational plans that can be understood and used by typical site staff. It is concluded that the
practical considerations related to scheme management should have been taken as basic determinants
in the planning and design of small scale schemes. To decide what technology is appropriate,
DGWRD/PRIS should: (i) carefully review the practicality of 'technical' design for small scale
schemes in remote areas; (ii) adopt only designs and operating principles that can been demonstrated
as workable; and (iii) ensure that planning and design *'kes into account the manpower and resources
likely to be available to implement and manage schemes.
1.44 Completing Development. None of the project schemes are complete and fully developed and
thus are not able to deliver predicted benefits. This situation has persisted because there is no specific
accountability for project performance. Since there is no urgency to deliver benefits, there has been
lack of commitment (and thus funding) to: (i) complete small works such as tertiary canals after the
main contracts are completed; (ii) verify and certify that schemes can work (and be managed) as
designed; (iii) undertake transitional O&M during construction and until schemes are handed over to
the provincial O&M authorities; (iv) complete land clearance and agricultural development in
coordination with civil works programs; and (v) clearly decide how a scheme is going to be managed
so that O&M staff and farmers know their responsibilities and/or know their water rights. If the
Borrower could resolve these problems, irrigation impact could be substantially improved at relatively
little cost.
1.45 Monitoring and Reporting. A major problem through the project history has been lack of
reliable reporting and monitoring. Most reporting records physical and fiziancial progress of either
schemes or individual contracts with little useful data on performance of investments. Data collected
by DGWRD was seldom reviewed in detail or checked for quality or quantity. The agricultural and
setdement agencies collected little useful data that related to the project. Monitoring and reporting
could and should have been strengthened under the training consultancy. Such a training activity
could have been done independentdy of problems under construction or O&M, and would not have
been restricted by budgetary considerations. In fact, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) should have
been a priority training objective, but it seems that the project authorities did not view the activity as an
essential input to efficient and effective management.
1.46 Diagnostic Analysis. Probably the most sobering lesson for the Borrower should be the lack
of diagnostic analysis on performance of both the irrigation service and agricultural impact. No
project agency undertakes a regular evaluation of either its own performance or its contribution to the
overall project objective, namely the benefits from irrigated agrculture. Without diagnostic analysis,
it is not possible to evaluate the effectiveness of management or enforce accountability for
performance. For SPIDP it has also meant that for much of the project period, the causes and
consequences of most project problems could not established with any certainty. DGWRD has now
recognized this lesson and an important achievement has been its initiative to commission the project
status survey (para 1.20). The one regret with the status survey was that an excellent opportunity was
missed to use the consultants activities as a training opportunity for DGWRD staff responsible for
monitoring and evaluation.
Proiect Relationships
1.47 Through the RSI staff, the Bank had an opportunity for day-to-day close contact with the
Borrower. Even during the initial three years when the project was under-supervised by the Bank,
there was regular routine contact with Government, especially with DGWRD units and BAPPENAS.
The close Bank/Borrower relationship has been particularly productive since about November 1986.
This has helped identify the causes of the project problems and develop of some of the action
programs aimed at resolving these issues.
Consuldngervices
1.48 The generic issues related to technical assistance have been described in para 1.41. Under the
project, consulting services were used for training, detailed design of irrigation schemes and the



-12-
DGWRD status survey. Training through consultants was the most important component under
institutional strengthening which was the main project objective. The training consultancy had little if
any impact. The problems were partLy due to unrealistic terns of reference and partly because the
institutions to be trained (particularly the PRIS) were plagued with so many problems that technical
assistance could not help. The Borrower and the Bank should have questioned the viability of the
terms of reference. It is difficult to strengdlen an institution with formal or on-the-job training when
little is happening on the job to use the training. The consultants were unrealistic in that they based
much of their training programs on procedures and concepts which were clearly not working at
field/scheme level. The Borrower sh4 ald have reaiized that there were so many unresolved problems
with planning, design, implementation and running of schemes that training (or institutiornal changes)
was unlikely to be worthwhile and practical. It is concluded that before further consultant services are
used for training, Government should thoroughly review the capability of the national agencies/PRIS
to be trained and decide what is practical given the quality of typical staff available. Design of
scheme was treated by local consultants as a proforma exercise. It seems that standard designs were
repeated without any evaluation of the viability of the resulting irrigation systems. Clearly, if local
consultants are to be used for small scale design, the agency retaining consultants must monitor and
review the design for quality. The status survey undertaken for DGWRD by consultants was
excellent but should never have been necessary if DGWRD and PRIS staff performed their routine
monitoring tasks.
Project Documentation and Data
1.49  The SAR and legal documents provided a useful and detailed framework for the Bank and
Government during implementation. In fact, they appear to be the only documents which collated and
described all the elements and activities of the project. If the SAR and the project conditionalities had
been fully endorsed and understood at the working level by all project agencies, many implementation
probiems would have been avoided or tackled earlier. The Borrower complied with most of the
project specific covenants to the standards that generally prevail through the irrigation subsector.
With hindsight, it seems that the Bank and Borrower may have had different understandings as to
what specifically was expected under these agreements.
1.50  There was only partal compliance with many key project covenants which had sector or
country wide implications such as local funding; provisions for O&M; participation of agriculture and
transmigration; reporting and monitoring; institutional strengthening; and full provision of qualified
staffing. Full compliance with these covenants was generally beyond the control of individual
Ministries/agencies. Stronger project coordination would have highlighted many of the shortcomings
to the Borrower. These sector/country issues were reported by Bank supervision missions since the
end of 1986. Some progress has been made but litde impact has yet been felt at project level.



-13-
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General
2.01. The Part I, reflecting as Bank's perspective, states quite categorically that the first time slice
of SPIDP failed in a number of respects. The project objectives were not met both in terms of
agrcultural functionality and in the more important aspects related to institutional strengthening.
However, the project achievements are considerable given that the project covers eight provinces;
focuses on small and medium irrigation schemes and the difficult task of insdtutional
strengthening; and involves a number of different agencies which have to coordinate their
programs. It is also recognized that at provincial level, the work program under the project is only
part of the PRIS activities.
2.02. There is considerable criticism of the manner in which the project was implemented.
However, the Part I contains also a list of shortcomings in the project preparation, supervision
(both by GOI and the WB), coordination and monitoring. The fact that these shortcomings were
not detected for three years, or that remedial action was not taken for about four years after the start
of the project. This indicates that the project was not only very poorly prepared, but also, that
almost all assumptions about institutional arrangements were over-optimistic and this optimism
was reflected in a lack of attention to the potential for failure.
Project Peparatio
2.03. There are sme common characteristics of project preparation environment which tend to
have an adverse effect on project quality and ultimately contribute to a disappoindng performance.
The most serious is the almost irresistible pressure for optimism on project feasibility which makes
it nearly impossible to abort a project once it has been conceived and has found a place in a project
pipeline. This is a complex problem which appears to have its origin not only in the importance
attached within both Government and the financing institution to achieving agreed lending targets,
but also in the perceptions of the individuals involved in the processing of projects that it is in their
interest to ensure a successful outcome. Sometimes the very process of project preparation tends
to generate amongst those most closely involved an enthusiasm and commitment to a successful
result that leads to an under-estimation of the difficulties and risks associated with the project.
2.04. It is acknowledged that the preparation period of SPIDP (1981) was a little premature for a
sub-sector operation for small and medium scale systems. This has, however, now been
overtaken by other events such as the sub-sector operation for efficient O&M./ . At this time, the
relevant question is the continuation and completion of schemes already started under SPIDP rather
than a new sub-sectoral thrust on small and medium scale systems in the whole country.
2.05. In retrospect, the earlier decisions about land and agricultural development components got
into an impasse because of certain events not naturalizing as anticipated during the preparatory
phases. The situation that developed was one of default whereby the project proceeded on the
existing status quo rather than according to some thought out plan. The lessons that have been
leant indicate that the best solution would be to incorporate all related activities as project
components.
2.06. The Part I mentions the delays in effectiveness of the loan because of the conflicting views
about te use of foreign consultants at the start of this project. The delay is historical fact and the
views of the different parties reflects also general policy and guidelines prevalent at that time. The
1/ Irrigation Subsector Project, Loan 2880-IND, 1987 (See Part m, Table 1).



- 14-
situation has to be reviewed in relation to present conditions and requirements for each progm or
project.
Project I=plementafion
2.07. The main problem affecting proper implementation of the project was the budget
restrictions which GOI has had to impose on alnost all public sector activities. This has seriously
affected the capability of the PRIS to function effectively. It has also limited progress on the land
development program and meant that full advantage cannot be taken of the institutional
strengthening component under the project. Budget constraints were a country-wide problem and
that there may be considerable difficulty for the project agencies to treat the project as a special
case. However, as lessons learnt, there are certain activities which deserve priority treatment. Foi
example, the consultancy/training component cannot be successful unless there are staff to train
and resources for these staff to function effectively. Priority should be given to
completion/improvement of civil works of schemes close to completion and for land development
to enable the schemes to be fully used.
2.08. The survey of status of implementation has identified certain broad problems. The
solutions to these problems fall into two categories. These are: (i) better planning and coordination
before and during the implementaion; and(ii) site specific management with ability to react to
deviations to the plans in an efficient and economic manner. Especially the latter needs more
attention at the present time. However well planned the operation, good management implies that
there will be deviations or site specific problems which need to be quickly and satisfactorily
resolved. These may be due to aditional data or infomiation arising dtrough the implementation.
Investigations, however thorough or expensive, cannot pinpoint all the problems with land, water,
etc. because of geological and topographical diversity. In a developing country such as Indonesia,
Liere is no bank of information about all these matters (geology, hydrology, soils, topography,
etc.) as there would be in a developed country. Therefore every step such as reconnaissance,
feasibility, system planning, design, construction and O&M produces additional information that
there was before that step was started. Site management must be clearly defined and trained to
react to deviations from the original assumptions.
2.09. The good or bad quality of the end product, whether it is design or construction is often
evident only some years after acceptance of the work. This is especially so when single year
packages for individual parts are issued as the project is implemented over four or five years. This
point needs further attention because supervision has to be improved to a level such that quality
assurance is an on-going process right throughout the execution.
2.10. Coordination at national level is the responsibilitv of BAPPENAS and at provincial level
this is done by BAPPEDA. DGWRD as an agency within the Ministry of Public Works has no
tangible power or authority to organize or chair such meetings. However attempts have been made
to organize project-oriented meetings, often before project review by Government or Bank
missions. It is acknowledged that these have not been held regularly as stated in the SAR.
2. 11. There are other issues related to these coordination meetings. The clarity and extent of
tcnhnil matters that can be discussed at such meetings are handicapped by the availability of
timely reports and information. The meetings often are of a general administrative nature and
therefore do not contribute much to identifying constraints or in implementing remeAdial measures.
Again the authority of the Chainnan of the meeting to instruct all parties to carry out certain actions
is not clearcut.
2.12 On the technical side, different agencies carry out detailed planning at different levels.
Therefore there is rrly any opportunity to compare like with like wherever integrated planning is
discussed at meetings. The lesson learnt is that when projects involve a number of agcncies, some
detailed activity charts should be agreed at the ou=t. pinpointing the person or body responsible



- 15-
for chairing these meetings and to provide a mechanism for the active involvement of such persons
or bodies during the project implementation.
2.13. Implementation of civil works was generally well produced with satisfactory construction
quality standards. Shortcomings, as observed by the Bank and we concur, generally relate to: (i)
planning and design rather than construction standards; (ii) lack of verification that schemes are
fully operational when designated as complete; and (iii) inadequate provision for operation and
maintenance during the construction period. It is acknowledged that the procedures to verify and
certify that a scheme is complete and can be operdted as designed, need to be reviewed and
strengthened as well as procedures for testing (and handing over as operational) completed blocks
within a scheme which is under construction. Many schemes consist of blocks, each controlled by
a head/cross regulator, which c^u!d be operated as designed without completion of the overall
schemes. It is agreed that there cannot be a sharply defined point in dme when construction ends
and O&M starts. A transition period is required when completed parts of schemes are gradually
taken up for efficient O&M and PRIS staff are increasingly assigned responsibility for future
O&M.
2.14. There is a statement that all of the GOI institutions had, and still have, the potential to
successfully implement their own works programs or activities under SPIDP since these are
technically simple and straightforward. It appears that this view may result in the same type of
pitfalls in the follow-up as was evident in the first time slice. Perhaps it is necessary to look at the
processes involved in bringing the schemes under SPIDP to successful fruition and to analyze the
roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved.
2.15 The Bank view appears to fluctuate between two opposite extremes; one where there is full
confidence in the technical capability of existing institutions and another, where a large amount of
institutional strengthening is still required. Perhaps this dichotomy should be resolved and the role
of professional consultants in carrying out specific technical planning and design under the
management and supervision of Government staff must be more clearly defined. In order to carry
out these management and supervisory functions, Government staff must get first had experience
of design and construction under some form of supervised training.
2.16 Moreover it is learnt that attention should be given to the supervision of the overall schemes
rather than the more narrow task of supervising the contractors. Supervision staff should even
more closely coordinate civil work programs with the land development activities so that works can
generate benefits as soon as they are completed. Finally, O&M responsibility during the
construction stage should be more clearly defined.
2.17. It is generally recognized that professional sldlls cannot be acquired by class room type
lectures, nor can the effect of professional training be easily measured by simple evaluation. The
experience of developed countries clearly indicates that the professional bodies not only have a
major influence on the technical courses, but also on the professional development of individuals
through work on actual design and construction. It goes without saying that if such skills are to be
acquired, the staff should be provided with the opportunity to learn on the job and that this may
involve an element of "learning through mistakes".
2.18. It is a moot point whether Government staff are counterparts of consultants or vice versa.
If the roles of all parties involved in successful execution of these projects can be clearly
established then nobody is a counterpart to another party. The direct responsibility of each party
for an end-product (with appropriate sanctions for bad performance) would be a better way of
ensuring that strong well qualified professional institutions develop within the country in the longer
term. In reality, there is a need for highly developed in-house professional capability within
DGWRD and provincial irrigation services in addition to the more commercial service provided by
firms of consultants depending on the workload.



-16-
2.19. Past procurement of civil works has generaly followed a pattem of first improving main
systems and then going on to tertiary systems and drainage works. This has happened on most
projects because of the manner of planning, budgeting and implementadon in the past. The
problems are also further complicated by works such as land clearance and land development
which are often planned, designed and supervised by agencies other than DGWRD.
2.20. The concept of integrated system planning and technical design incorporating settlement,
water resources infrastructure and land development is relatively new and needs much more care in
future implementation. Irrespective of the number of agencies which are concemed in the project
implementaion, efficient planning and design must be a single integrated process for all activities.
The activity flow charts developed for the Muko-Muko Acdon Plar. illustrate this point. It is
perhaps best to ensure that one consultant is assigned to carry out the basic mapping, planning and
design and for this consultant to obtain approval from all the concemed agencies at provincial and
central level, before proceeding with budgetary allocations and execution. Sometimes it may be
necessary to open out blocks of forested land based on reconnaissance level infornation and
conceptual planning, and then canry out more detailed work thereafter. There is a need to look
closely to avoid excessive waste of resources and environmental damage.
2.21. The cause of the mixed under achievement somehow denotes the shortcornings during the
planning and design stage, especially on the provision of informations to be used for basic data, as
well as the construction stage. The lacks of the necessary data provision, and recognition of key
issues for better synchronization of works for all water related schemes, confirm the need of field
testing equipment for soil, water and construction and the training of staff in planning,
programming, designing and control as well as monitoring the scheme. It also supports the ideas
on the need of a board at central, regional and field level, for coordination and synchronization of
cross supporting efforts between sectors, where each sector will face the same Loan funding
category to focus on the same target area, wherein each will have to adopt a similar yardstick for
priority ranking at the same time. The board is mainly to be used as a vehicle to follow the need of
support from orie agency and possibility to supply from the other, the cause and effect of each
decision in the related sector to the program.
Project Results
2.22. An overall review of the completed irrigation schemes indicates that crop yields and area
tend to be increasing gradually every year once the scheme completed. Nevertheless in most
schemes, the crop areas are stil far from the ultimate target due to the slow progress of land
development. Although most of the schemes have been completed in the last one or two years but
within these completed schemes, the average cropping intensity is still less than 1009o out of '150%
- 175% of the target. It is estimated that the achievement of full benefits will take longer unless
land development can be expedited. On the other hand, crop yield development in general shows
better prospects. The SAR estimated that the average paddy yield would increase from 2.5 tons/ha
up to 3.5 tons/ha under the project at full development. In fact, it is observed at the PCR time, the
paddy yield has achieved as high as 4.5 tons/ha and as low as 3 tons/ha in irrigated areas. In some
schemes such as those located in South Sulawesi Province, the paddy crop yield is expected to
reach as high as 5.0 tons/ha due to improved crop management and technology resuldng from
INSUS and SUPRA INSUS programs.
2.23. To ensure a better agricultural performance for a new irrigation project, it is ideally to
expect that the land development would be incorporated with the construction of irrigation facilities
under the same project using the same source of loan. This is without lessening the authority and
responsibility of the concerned agencies (D1GWRD & DGFCA) in the management of budget
allocated to these respective agencies. The agricultural performance of irrigation projects, by all
reasons, is one of the major cor,cerns of DGWRD. It is becoming generally acknowledged in the
DGWRD that the successfulness of irrigation projects are not measured by the level of projects'
physical completion but further to the level of function of the completed systems to allow an



- 17-
optimal achievement of project benefits. Nevertheless, the division of authority among the
concerned agencies has limited the involvement of DGWRD in the pursuit of project benefit after
projeit construction. This situation should not be interpreted as that the DGWRD has little interest
in the agricultural performance of the project as indicL ed by the Bank in para 4.06, Part I of this
PCR. It is still within this interest that the DGWRD is establishing PME unit within the activities
of project with a major task to monitor and evaluate the irrigation and agricultural performance of
the project and providing recommendations for any necessary corrective measures. Under the
ongoing ISSP (Loan 2880-IND), the PME units have also established in 1988/1989 including the
area under the provincial coverage of the SPIDP.
Project Sustainability
2.24. There is too much emphasis in the Part I about "outer" islands, remoteness of schemes, and
inappropriate technology. Indonesia is one country and hopefuuly the aim is to develop uniform
standards of access and efficiency even though, in the shorter term, the settlements served by these
schemes appear to be remote from other established settlements. It would be cynical to set
arbitrarily depressed standards of performance for areas where the Government wishes to attract
settlers from other more developed areas. It can be shown that conflicting priorities, between new
development and O&M as well as institutional constraints are affecting efficient operation and
maintenance even on Java. Thus the challenge is to take the more disciplined and professional way
of life to these new settlements, rather than set double standards of efficiency, remoteness etc.
Some simplification of procedures may be justified in the short tern. It is acknowledged that
operation and maintenance are still unsatisfactory on many completed schemes. Again this must be
viewed in the national context of changing attitudes and developing skills. When O&M is
discussed nationwide (not only for water resources but also for other public infrastructure), the
Bank's view sometimes grossly under-estimates the problems of rapidly introducing efficient
O&M. This must necessarily be a slow process and early mistakes must not be used as an excuse
for not trying. The Irrigation Sub-Sector Project is not only identifying the essential weaknesses,
but is also helping to overcome them. This will apply equally to the SPIDP schemes. In this
context, it is necessary to recognize remoteness as a temporary factor hampering introduction of
efficient O&M because not all parts of Indonesia have reached the same level of infrastructural or
institutional development.
Bank Perfonnance
2.25. The Part I of this PCR acknowledges, and we concur, that Bank performance with respect
to project preparation, appraisal and supervision has been inadequate. Given the institutional
constraints faced by GOI, it would be reasonable to expect the Bank, which has better resources,
to give more attention to these aspects in the future.
Borrower Perforrnance
2.26. Monitoring and reporting for this project has been defective, but th.s must again be viewed
in the light of other shortcomings which have already been identified. Perhaps too much reliance
was placed on the coordination within individual provinces. The concept of using supervision
missions within DGWRD and the Directorates, similar to those used by the Bank, needs to be
explored further. This will involve highly skilled technical pools of staff who are retained on a
permanent basis to carry out diagnostic reporting and evaluation.
2.27. The Borrower performance and the shortcomings have been discussed in previous sections
of these comments. In particular, the institutional strengthening aspects already highlighted under
the detailed action plan for ISSP needs further attention. As for consultants, it seems unlikely that
in the short term Govemmetit agencies can quickly build up sufficient in-house capability to handle
all technical tasks required for water resources development. However, it is acknowledged that
routine capability for a base load of *.echnical planning, design and supervision should be built up



- }8-
and expanded for the future. A start has already been made in building up such capability in some
of d.e provinces. It is hoped that it will be possible to build up similar technical cells (taking
responsibility for specific projects or programs by undertaking planning, design and supervision
in-house through force accoun.) in each of the directorates of DGWRD with Bank support. Good
qualify technical staff should be provided with special facilities such as transport, duty travel, etc.
at levels which are more generously allocated for projects and on construction sites. The routine
budgets for water resources development must include an element of facilities (such as computers,
drawing machines, office equipment, transport, stationary etc.) for these technical cells and also
for the continuLd maintenance of these facilities.



1NDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375-IND}
Project Compleiion Reprt
Relaled Bank LOans ando Crdits
Lo2n  l              Lu. Titb                                         aof A   yal     Sau              Comments
1578-IND            ItTigation X       TA for InstiLutional             1978          Completed
strengthening and cost
tracovey study.
164-IND             Irigation Xll      Institutional training           1978          Completed
study for LNOWRD.
099S-IND             krigazion XV       Institutional strengthening     1980          Completed        Mentioned in SAR with respect to
for DGWRD.                                                      strengthening of planning, progammming, and
budgeting.
996-IND              Agricultural      Strcngften O&M of                1980          Completed        Before negotiations, it was agreed that the  cn
Extension 11       Agncultural Services,                                           agricultural compotnts would be covarcd
under Ln 996-IND.                         3
21 18-IND            Irrigation XVI    TA for institutional             1982          Compicted        Training of water user associations and key  H  -t
strengthening of DGWRD                                          famnnerm
and MIS design for                                                                                                   0
inigation sector.                                                                                        H:
2119-IND             Irrigation XVII   Furst Provincial Irrigaticn      1982          On going         Mentioned in SAR as supporting MIS system  0
pmojct in East Java.                                            and inprovements in M&E and imnowd
O&M.
2341-IND!     .      Agricutwual       lmved planning for               1984          On going         General suppont of Provincial Agricultural  o
Training           agricultural manpower                                           services.
developmncmt and utilization.
2s 9-lN ...     >    Central & West    Training; institutional          1986          On going
Java Provincial    strengtheing; TA fo
detai  design
2748-IND             Agriculural       Strengthening extension          1987          On going         Continuation of Agricuintral Extension 11 L
Extension iL       sevices.                                                        996-IND)
2880-IND             Irrigation        Efficient O&M; completion        1987          On going         Substatial suppnt of TA for Studies efficient
Spbsector          of small/ medium schemes,                                       O&M and completion of provinial schenes
technical assistance/                                          (special O&M).
training.
1/ Only putposes related to Second Ptovincial arc listed                                                                                              O 



- 20 -                               Part III
Tables 2 & 3
INTDONESIA
SECOND PRQVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375-IND)
Project Completion Report
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date                          Date
Item                  Planned                       Aictua
-  Identificadon             NA                          June 1982
-  Preparation,?reappraisal  NA                          Sept 1982
-  Appisal Mission          2/18/83                       2/18/83
-  Loan Negotiations       11/17/83                       11/17/83
-  Board Approval           1/10/84                       1/10/84
-  Loan Signatue            130/84                       1/30/84
-  Loan Effectiveness       5/1/84                         10/5/84
-  Loan Completion          6/30/87                       12/31f88
-  Loan Closing            12/31/87                       12/31/88
C:onunnts:
The project identification resulted from a sector mission to review the national
irrgation work program and budget. From the Initiating Project Brief and through
appraisal, the project was called First Irrigation Subsector Project. The project was
renamed Second Provincial Irrigation Developrment at the Issues Paper stage. An important
component supporting land development and institutional strengthening of agricultual
agencies was taken out at negotiations on the assumption that it would be. covered under a
parallel agricultural extension project (NAEP II; Ln 996-IND). At negotiations,
BAPPENAS objected to foreign consultants for training since with all the previous training
support, national agencies/consultants should be able to s do it unaided. Consequently, the
technical assistance component was modified to reduce the man months of foreign
consultancy. The Bank made signing the contract with the training consultants a condition
of effectiverness. GOI (SEKNEG) continued to press for only national consultants and as a
result, the date of effectiveness was postponed twice and project became effective five
months later than planned.
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Fiscal Year
1984       1985    1986    1987      1988     1989
-------------------------------- US$M  ----------------------------------
Ag   %al Estimate (1983)   0.6       20.7     50.3    79.9     89.0     89.0
Atual (1989)               0.0       13.2     38.0    58.0     80.5     89.0
Actal :a Y of Estmt        0.0       63%      75%     72%      90%     100%
Date of final disbursement: March 2, 1989



INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2375-lNDI
Project Completion Report
Proiect Imulementaion
Appraisal       Revised           Actuia
Indicators                               Estimate        Estimale       PCR EstimateI      Comments
(ha)
I      Mdiu    Schemei
nipigable area (ha)                          26,295         25,585        6.592   (25%)
Constucion Main System (ha)                                              22,007   (84%)
Constuction Tetiary System (ha)                                           11,977  (46%)
mInd Cleance Compkled (ha)                                  23,007        11,092  (42%)      3270 families to be settled.
2      Smap Schemes &
Idpble area (ha)                            49,029        53.994 41      20,595   (42%)      1690 families to be settled.
Consouction Main System (ha)                                             50,273   (103%)
Consmuction Tertiary System (ha)                                         39,109   (80%)
Land ClaMance Comnpleed (ha)                                42,357       22,459   (45%)
3(a)   Civil Works to suengthen (PRIS)
and DGWRD                                     100%            38%                 47%        See NoLe 2J
(b)   Civil Works to Strengthen (DAAD)             -                100%0          NA               Nodata available.
4(a)    Training Consultants (PRIS)
Foreign (man months)                      250               119
Natonal (man months)                      220               332
(b)   Training Constams (PRAS)
Foreign (man months)                       32                32
Naional (man mondhs)                      224               304
5(a)   Eqvipment for PRIS nd DGWRD                                                        86         See Now.2/.
(b)   Equipment for DAAD                                            100%           NA               No pefonuac data
available
6(a)   Training Materials (PRIS & DGWRD)           1001               48%                48%         See Note 21.
(b)   Truning Matrials (DAAD)                                       100%           NA               No perfwanmce dala
available.
I/ For details of scheme implem ation and present status see Tabls I and 2 of Annex 1.
2/ Breakdown by items is not availabl; performance is rcrde as pereenge expadia of esimated csts.
31 Pacentage of appaisal estimat.
41 Included Parigi Poso ProjecL (5294 ha).



INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PR            ECT (in 2375-llYD)
Poject Comnletion Report
Project Costs and Financine
Pant A - roject Costs
Repelita IV                   Project                                          Estimated Total
Cm17                              Invesnnt Cosi               Ti me Slic 19o6/87                                   kxg f/vesmet coSt h/
(1984/85 - 1988/89)        (1984/85 - 1986/87)
Ical     FC      Total      Local    FC      Total     Local   E      Total      Local    FC     Total
...........--'''''''''''''..''-''-'---------- -.--^-------- US$M--- ----------------------------
1. -Instutional SuQ t (PRIS)                        NA         2.4      2.3     4.7        1.0   0.9       1.9               -      NA
2. brAitdonal SuMpa (DAAD) Y7            -           NA         1.2     2.2      3.4-          -       -                            NA
3. Small Irrigionm Schanes I2/
-  DeMgns                     0.7     -       0.7        0.2      -       0.2                      NA
-  Constmction                  43.1    24.2     67.3      30.6     17.1    47.7                       NA
-  Land Development C/           6.1     1.1      7.2       3.7      0.6     4.3        -      -       NA                       13.9
-  Lani Acquisition & Adnin.     3.7      -       3.7       2.7      -       2.7                       NA
-  Sament                         -      -       NA         -        -       NA         -      -       NA         -        -    15.1
Subtotal     53.7    25.3     79.0      37.2     17.7    54.9       NA     NA      43.81/     NA       NA    55.2
4. Medium Imigation Schemes fl
-  Designs                        1.7     -       1.7       1.7      -       1.7        -      -       NA
-  Construction                 36.5    26.5     63.0      28.9     19.3    48.2        -      -       NA                                 N
-  Land Developnent /            6.6     1.2      7.8       4.2      0.7     4.9               -       NA         -        -    12.6
-  Administration and Other      5.8      -       5.8       4.0      -       4.0                       NA
-  SenlementC/                    -      -       NA         -        -       NA         -      -       NA                  -     7.2
Subtotal     50.7    28.9     79.6      38.8     20.0    58.8       NA     NA      63.6i/      -        -    87.7
S. CoIias                            -       -       NA 1&3             3.7 L  ..          2.0   42       6.2         -       -
Total        104.4   54.2    158.6      80.2     43.7   123.9                     115.5                     150.1
Ne:      Project Costs for small aj.d medium inigation schemes are detailed in Tables I and 2 of Annex 1.
d Repeliuta IV - portion of GOI Fourth National Five-year Development Plan for design and construction in provinces for smal (kecil) schemes and 4 provinces for
medium schemes. Second Provincial suppored a thge year time slice of the prgrmn. (See Table 3.5, SAR).
bY Based on 50,000 ha net imrgable area (77 schemes) in eight provinces.
gF Based on 26.200 ha net imgable area (6 schemes) in four provinces.
By Inc!uded contingencies (as estimated in SAR).
1 Land development and settlement were not supponted under project cost assumed to be GO/credit coss).
I  lnstiitidonal strengthening of DAM) was oniginaly included in the project at appraisak but then taken out at appraisal; some of the costs were subse-quently
included in April 1987, but no disbursement was made against any of the DAAD categories.
0/ Actual expenditures (in March 1989 priceslexchange rate), no breakdown of total PRIS institutional costs are available.
by Estimated costs to complete civil works (including tertiary canals and drainage land and agricultural development and costs of setle-ment for new areas.  la
y  No breakdown of costs between subcategories of small and medium irigation schemes are available.                                        * DD
y   Excluding costs of consultants to undertake status survey for DGWRD funded unde. LnL 2880-ND. M..
LAI



SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION 12EVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2175-IND)
_      LimCopeto R=zt
Prject Costs and Fancinog
Paris B and C - Loan Disbursemnent Categones and Financ*ni 1z
Source                                 Loan Agreement        Revised 2/       Actual 3J     Comments
(a) I1RD (2nd Pmvincial
Category  I (a)   Civil works                 800              300               365       Related to PRIS/DGWRD strengthening
O)   Civil works 4/               -               300
2      Civil wOrs 0/             75,800           79,400            80,773       Construction of smnall and medium schenes.
3 (a)  Equipmenm                    500              500              429
(b)  EquipmenL4/                  -               300
4 (a)  Consultants                6,200             5,900            6,159
(b)  Conmstants 4                 -               800
S (a)  Training materials         2,200             1,060            1,053
(b)  Training materials/          -               200
6      Fromnt End Fee               222              222               222
7      Unaocated                   28                  8 
Subtotal                         89,000           89.000            89,000
(b)  IBRD (Irigation Subsector Proiea              -                 -
Consultants '                        -              1.100            1,100       -Consultants StaLs Report on all 84 schemes
under Second Provincial.
(c)  pomeslic                                   61.0            6lilA00
Total Financig   150,400                 151,500              NA
1/ Pars B and C. loan disbursement categories and project fmancing, included in the same table.
21 Loan Agaeenent amended on April 15. 1987 to support civil work, equipment, consultants and training materials for stengthening of Directorate of
Agncultual Area Dcvelopment (DAAD). The parts were included under the original project descpion but wac nol suppoced wider the loan.
31 As of March 2. 1989 when Loan was fully disbursed.
41 Expenditures were made agaist the categones designed to strengthen DAAD but no claims were made before Loan was fully disbursed on other
categoies. 
5/ Petcentage of Expenditure fruanced for civil works was increased from 75% to 91% for Category 2 in April 15,1987 to decrease lxcal Ifding    m
requrmets.                                                                                                                                     r
/ Not inchte at appaisal.
tv
Abbreviation:  NA. - Not available.                                                                                                             0 z
O
I



- 24 -
Part III
Table 6 - A
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINgAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJEC' (Ln 2375-IND)
Project Completion Report
Project Results
A - Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at              Estimated at
iatd   r              Esfimlate          Clasinm Date S           Deyelopment
Incremental Paddy
Production (Tons)     200,000             117,000                    350,000
No. of Beneficiaries
(Families)             60,000              22,000                    76,660
Incremental Farm
Labor (M. Man-days) Z     6.0                 3.5                      10.5
Incease in Family
Income (%) 31             110-170             NA                        NA
Foreign Exchange
Savings (US$M)          38.4 A               15.4 5I                   47.3 5/
1/ Estimated direct benefits at closing date and at full development for individual schemes are given
in Annex 2.
21 Increase in family income not available.
31 Based on new cropped area and assuming labor for paddy at 160 man days in wet season and
79 man days in dry season.
4/ End of 1983 currency values (US$1.0 = 970 Rp) and economic farm - gate price for rice as 266
RplKg.
51 Based on average import/export parity economic fafn-gate price for rice of 220 Rp/Kg in 1990
and 266 RpfKg in 1995 and using a currency exchange of US$ 1.0 = 1670 Rp.



- 25 -
Table 6- B & C
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375-INDI
Project ComRletion Report
Project Results
Part B - Economic Impact 1/
Appraisal           PCR
ELn_r-ic Rate of Return                    Estmate            Esumate 1/
Av,nge    ,ngj
Uinderlying Assumpntion
A.   Small $cheme
(i)  Base Case                           32%            16%   10%-38%
(ii) Elimination of dry season crop      24%
(iii) Cost increase of 25%               13%
(iv) Poor O&M (one third of
required O&M budget)                20%
B.   Medium Schemes
(i)  Base Case                           16%            17%   10%-33%
(ii) Elimination of dry season crop      10%
(iii) Cost increase of 20%               13%
(iv) Poor (O&M)                          10%
1/ See Annex 2 for estimated ERR of all medium and small schemes.
2/ Average includes 5 small schemes which give nominal or negative ERR. These schemes
had unforeseen technical problems which either substantially increased costs or decreased
potential irrigated area.
Part C - Financial ImDact
AnnuEal arln come                SAR Estimate I/      PCR Estimate 2
Present (at appraisal)                 328,240                  NA
Future without project (Rp)            411,600                  NA
Future with project (Rp)               817,500               954,340
Increase due to project %                  149                  NA
1/ In 1983 Rp.
21   In 1987 Rp at ful development assuming one hectare farm unit



- 26 -
Table 6 - D
ENES1A
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMNT PROJECT (Ln 2375-IND)
Project Completion Report
Project Results
Part D. Studies and Ins0tutional Suaort
Purpose as
lDefined at A2VraisQJ   a=              Impact of Study/Comments
Status Survey  To evaluate status                       The consultants produced an
of all small and  of all (84) SPIDP                     exceUent, comprehensive study
medium irriga-  schemes and                             for each scheme with summaries
don schemes     prepare action                          for each province. For the first
under SPIDP.   plans for 17                             time, it was possible for GOI and
selected schemes.                       the Bank to assess the true status
of the project, identify problems,
Part 1 (42         Completed August     constraints and what formulate
schemes).          1988.                was needed to resolve the
problems. The study was a major
Part I (42         Completed March      input to the Project Completion
schemes and 17     1989.                Report and will also constitute a
action plans).                          basic identification/preparation
document for proposed further
investmnents.
I n stit ution al
Strengthening   Format and on-    Through all of the    Marginal. The PRIS to be trained
of 8 Provincial  the-job training in  project period and  were generally understaffed and
Irrigation      design, implemen-  completed in         underfunded which made it
Services       tation, efficient  November 1988.        virtually impossible to undertake
(PRIS) and     OMK water                               on-the-job training. There was no
DAAD.           managment and                           incentive for staff to respond tro
land development                        training. Generally the
consultants were not qualified (or
able) to deliver the training impact
expected under the terms of
reference.



- 27 -
EAIUJI
Table 7
114ONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375 J1M
Proiect Comoletion Report
Record of Compliance with Maior Covenants
Section
Project          Sununary Description                      Date for
of Loan Conjditon                        Copltin                   Status C/
3.01               Cany out project in accordance with          NA                      3
appropriate agricultural, engineering and
fnancial practices and provide promptly
fuids facilities, staff, services, resources
as reuird
3.02               Employ consultants with quialifi- cations,   NA                      2 hI
experience and terms of employment
satisfactory to IBRD.
3.04 (b)           Maintain records adequate to monitor the     NA                      3/4
progress of project. including cosu arid
benefits.
3.04 (d)           Prepare project completion report.      June 30. 1989                8S/
3.06               Select kecil (small) and sedang (medium)     NA                      2
schemes in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to IBRD.
3.07               Fanners agree to participate in land         NA                      3/4
development and planning and design of
tertiary network prior to scheme selection;
farmers to fomi water user asssciations.
4.02 (a)           Maintain appropriate accounts and records.   NA                      2
4.02 (d)           Fumish audited financial state- ments.   September 30                2
each year
4.03 (a)           Adequately operate and maintain project                              3/4
works and cause action. as required, to
efficiendy use water for agricultural
developmeneL
4.03 (b)           Make available to O&M organizadons,      August 15 each              3/4
liquid funds equal of half annual cost of  year.
O&M with balance in quarterly
installments; fully staff O&M
organizations.
4.03 (c)          Inform Bank of approved O&M cost per      May 1 each year.            3
ha and staff provisions for each irrigation
scheme under the project.
Al  1 = umavailable           2 = in compliance;           3 = partially in compliance;
4 = not in compliance;    5 = to be waived/deleted;     6 = no longei relevant;
7 = to be amended;        8 = not yet done.
bl Retntion of consultants was a condition of Loan effectiveness.
r/ Detailed status report prepared of all 84 schemes under the project: formal project completion report under
pqP_arl



-28 -
Part II
Table 8-A
RiDQNESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL _RRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375-IND)
PrMiect Comrnletion Report
Use of Staff Resources
PART A. Staff Inputs
EY83     EKL4      FY85    EF86      FYU2      FY88     Total
............... .(staff weeks) ........ 
Preappraisal  28.1                                                    28.1
Appraisal     78.2     28.0                                          106.2
Negotiations   -       11.0                                           11.0
Supervisionat  -        2.7      9.6      6.1      7.9      17.1     43.4
Other         0.2       0.7       -        -        -         -       0.9
TOTAL        106.5     42.4      9.6      6.1      7.9      17.1     189.6
Comments,
aI Staff inputs planned for supervision average about 15 staff weeks per year for typical irrigation
projects in Indonesia. Thus if the project had been fully supervised, the staif supervision input
should have been about 74 staff weeks, including preparation of the PCR (compared with an
actual of 43.4 staff weeks). The allocation for a typical subsector operation in Indonesia would
be substantially more, for example, the Irrigation Subsector Project, Loan 2880-IND is
allocated 27 staff weeks each year. It is concluded that the project was under supervised,
particularly during the first four years of the project period.



INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROIEC             (Ln 2,75-IND)
Prject Corpletion Report
Parts B & C: Use of Staff Resources
PartB. Bank Missions It 231
No of                  Specialization  Performance
Stage of Project Cy(le    Month/Year    Persons   Days in Field 41 Rpresgnteaw i   Rating Status V  Type of Problem 2/
1. P Riect ARaisal:         11,/82         3          20       IE; A; E
2/83          6          23         (2)IE; A; (2)E; F
II. AppRaisal lQ Board:      7/83          1           5        IE
Ill. BoardApprisalto
EffecAiiness:           N/K                                                                Condition of Effectiveness
(Training Consultants
contact)
IV. Supenision:
3/85          1         (10)       IE                 NA            No FSR report.
7/86           1        (10)        IE                12                M,O
12/86          2         15         IE; TE            2/2               M,O
11187          2         1 8        21E               2/3               M,O
4/88          1           7         KE                NA               T,M,O
6/88          2          17         2EE               213             T,F,M,O
11/88          1          4         IE                2/3             T,F,M,O
V. PCR         *            3/89           2         15         21E
PanC. StffjngCosts No information avaliable
j/ Undl November 1987, project supervised from the RSI field office on a continuous basis.
E/ Expected and actual staff inputs not available for the project dtugh the MIS.
F Figwues in brackets are PCR estimate.
4/  Number of days from start to finish of mission in field.
y   Ke to Specializa:in: IE = Wigation Engineer, A = Agricultculist E  EEconomist; F  Foester, TE = Training Expert.
yto Sts: Development lnpact/Overall Status.
21  Key to Problems: M = Management; T = Technical; F = Financial; 0  Other (Project coordinaion and general project
problems).



-30 -                                                   .Annex
Table 1 (a)
WD ONES IA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2375-IND)
Project Completion Report
Summary of Sub-Project Physical Status (Sumatra Island)
:Province                 Planned          Population                          Area (Ha)
--  - - - -- -  - - - - lrrigable -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -
:SCALE LEVEL           - ,Aea        Local 'Trans- :Total    M Main   Tertiary :Present Land Statu'lrriyated
(Ha)            'rigrant:        Systee  : Syste      :------------------:  Fran
:Sub Project                                               :Ccepleted:Completed:Uncleared. :Sawah     Schese
I          8       @              ,         '          ':Undeveloped;      'Facilities,
1.WEST SU"ATERA                   :                                 :
:A. Meoium Scale         :                  .              .         :          :
1, Indrapura                 6010    ' 0(0     775   3775      3340       1585        43105  1633         904
:2. Suliti                    1481 '*6'2          0: 462        14:.       1481:          0:1481           520
.. . ....  -- - -    -- - - -- --   -- - - -  -- - - -   -- - - - -  -- --   -- - -- -
Sub Total           7499    7622 :    775 :e;39:      4821 W     3066!!      4383 :3114:        1424
B8. Small Scale                        : :                            :
t ------ -----------     ,:                 .       :      , 
:1. eatang Sangki 11           719       5Q       0 '850:        604: t       Q         441     279'       212:
:,2. Ianguih Malalak     :     298:    40O0       0    400       265        172:          0'298:           237:
:3. Bandar Sangkir       :    10OJ I  2026        0 r2026       101 :        0         363    666 6:8
:4. Batu Palano          ;     .48:    465        0    465       3 48         0         175    173         173               -
:5. Sungai Petung              328      :84 :     0    284       I 328 :    112         100 : 229          184
:6. Sungai Aro           :     764      405       0:405:         764:         0:        496     268          0:
:7. Bandar Tanjurg.      :     484:    1935       0   l9:5        484       r4          284q:   200        2oQ
:9. Bandar Sawah  adang ,      886     l o(-I1    0: 1051        886 :      236 :       375     511 :      511
19. Bandar Panjan    t         974 :    902:      0    902       974        374:        274     600:       600:
:10. ;ayu Saki cuik      '     506     350        0    j50:i     506        !06 :       3Z5     111        11 h
r         Sub  atal           62i8    8648        0   8648:     6090 :     3034 a      2843    3395       2956
a          a       a       a      a          I         I            I      a          a.
I                  @    ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~  ~~      ~    ~     ~    ~      ~    ~ I  I  a  a  I  I  I  I  a 
:0. Small Scale          : I                a       a                 a         a
: --~ ---------------ss                                                                            r 
:1. :aiti Saga                1695      250:   1035   1 265      1509:      832         86a:    427:       659
:2. Baoahan nantar:                       0 a   120    1 120 29             24'         273 a                0
:3. Doranan                    651 n11 7:5 :            75        543:        0:        5?4     137          0
:4. Nagedang             :     7   :0      : Q   80    '6Q       597        246         747      33          3
:5. Sei Tambang          :     a2s ,    3Qq ,     Q ' 304:       E'5 O      240:        671     154:        94
:6. Dana Kaoto Rajo      '     '9E'    5;9        0    548       12' S        0:         57    231 
:7. Pauh Pangean         :     770 :   517 :      0    517 :    591 :      451 :       470    300           0
:8. Lubuk Abacang11      :     :41     :0s           : Q os:     :41         oQ          67     112 ,
:9. Seberang Gunung      '     394      425       0:45: Q1 37 1:'I                              377          0:
:10. Seberang raluk tl   :     299      125       o:   1:5       2?9                    18Q I:  118:        19:
Sub Total      :    6:5e    2 374:   1810:   f4184:   5403       2561        3876 :2382          775
1/ Provided by DGWRD with Part II of the PCR (as of December 1988).



* ~~~11  *lGO"  &o  :qU  :*:    rmsc: MOT  0998k :  9Uzc
izbol  ;0091  &o0.  . hor  &OtC  CUL  E 9L  Z6t9  6 &IC  :iuioi qn5
0 Ii        0       0     0I  S      I     OO   EI      glt INjg   -I
Of   r   Lit    L01    ior  :,&I ;o   :cz  :Lo:  snaao !inaslaS ciVj:
toL ti  O: or   *ir  :       0;r  : oa  :  :Oa   tTir   buoualay site j:   -ZI:
*CT     U   B :erz  rc     :1cr  iir:r    :oz zst   :     uedeaIl UOT01
:& z :fbz      :rLZ     L    06cz o' 0  :W  ZLZL         hpUnHJst16b:
0!    :01  :t or  :OCr    ocr   ttoz  :o  : .z  :Oct    vu,uudftnS j?v 9:
I       BI   : Ott  :oar   oar  : zr is  :   : z ci   OC  :1   0   b uas  t It
(I      i   TIL    I o   a      I  SL     I 9   9i   IS)4          It
99     I 0  I T    I l   I T     zI c  I   zI c  I 1  I         -N J V 
99Z   0:1  W     ltt  0    W~~~~~~*  9 *  plIf 116WN i  : 
I861r   0 1b6  :. It  6  :   f   OZ: oi :0  oztr.  6Wc~ 
oI  Do   0 6    ilq    lt IL L    (IL I    I  O E     1 1  lt Dn  'I
*  I  I  I  I     I   I    I     I     II~~~~~~~~~~~-- -- -- -- --
*  g      I      a         I    I     I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn sm Io
* t    I  I     I(  6a             a      Li a  I   In           u  Z I
UT 61:h91 :&tc     bt      6 :o:   :a06  &;          0uniaamie
tic    orzi :  CI   69ET1   6e?ri  i;o ca  0  : .  Lett    1111  bupfimm  ji
:IZz  :ir   ;t9     z*b   rtL   :0091 :0   009! : W   :      sii5'jiOJ!9:
lUi   :z LU  Z      6La I  tLil  :059! 9:  t3l  WI 1t1     I *t1o0 J!v 3ll
ooi   I  6 o&  :01    0101i  : zi  aom  (l   I i          1  J!U  It
:n  .:oci:e0Ott  ;o.;   :of;   ooi o    :ou  0:o&cb TR6
OTT   gilII        KIL I  I0  I0         a 11p          n   i  1
*  I  S  I       a    a     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIVn   H1051
qat: avT4na1I3)pEIIo:           a                         ,so  qns:
*     :----------  *aiiAs  saj%AS  JVA5        (PH)                1
few) D8ai'        a   J:ff; auuid       :autAaid:
(P1wT8I V1ms ony2 TuO;uAak( 309pij-cin9 ;o aUUns
(ao4I-sLcz "'1) -Lo3toud -IM OINIO'hGN Ou"lYaI WVIDIAOUJ (MOORS
VISZROONI
x5U. ,~~~~~~~~ Tt 



.4-..        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              a                  e  as0 :aa.C   -:;,:, M 0-V   r  n a l
U       II  I ~~~~~~~  9m  O a , Q 0  *9.  a~~~~~~~~~,  O..ag.OLI   V  ftV)INVI  r  Cv  N  C '-0  et  CD Ovai i   a, IWiEI I 01il
,g  ~ g           jl   C   OD' OC~(at vif~I  ~ vi  ll VVC  ' IE'I to.~  (ai'VC0 liI
a  a.  e-~~~~~~W  of 0M-            -4   1                    #- V"It.1.)ll
oo  I  It  t    0    P  IV                 p:                                 bl 1
it  I I. C           I                       I'                               * *
1           I                      I             I                I  I  II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  o   %IC  i C
.0               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~t5  t Ir w Ir             I,                             a  VC
~~~  11111111  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~0       Sm            g                I  11I"I1
of I. I ice  .10     e                                                     .  a
II % I  S  909  I-Cr~~~~~a v 62n t. VPIWWI  ft P40   A.pi a1.  Ito'.CDCD V   C.'   I  .  ~ - I t i nfi-CJN-1  O 0P P  It
I0I L              t vS@9                  t g         11 v  g V,  Mon
110 0I 1 01                                  Ig                         POI
mice  i.e  CCI                            I             Ila  IIll VII0.0  t
I a  I                                                             to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I C Ifo  c
lU1  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ c.ra woa  . II6 41   4.   r   "0PTi  , I - II
a;2  I-, 9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
me          C), ~  D)ViI - Olt WVVi ((v9  V V-  v.  .  . . Cr10  -  i1(  . 0  I I C) pggtI  0  1  C  vi  Iv.%  ~,
to         In  V,    O.g 
4i   co   ClO s IIIII                                                                b
W,  v v, 2i1V     I 0',          P I  In. -, l~a la vi W.  p.I v  ii 
il"C '0             I                      I CIge
6-4 Z ~ ~   I
1-400  gg ~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ I~~~PiinP0*.,V  lvi ~~~~~~~~~~~~   0el0 0  0   usV- V  I. W.  0  ipWvI. U-P ep ID  OVaInOOOOOOO  8I T  l 
10' 1 . - .gs     bi ll 0 a LI ,.3&  *o a ,  l ~ -pe0  I 9'  if'  ra 0 liiVl
14 I   I                                 C  C)                            g  I  Itr
P4 Po    'v 0, I   W(CviI~.  V    v  0(a.0vi.0DNVi .OMif Om  lIn In  P, ftiO   o ID  i#  .iVADF)F), liJ WIN  * Ii
A     ii  cu..  I  -       lvif nIr  n N  .J  -l  gee,  C,  VC-$  ft '            evnO,  0C0 rmn I vI .
U3  L   IL                                                           I~~~~~~~~II  .e I I
*1~ ~ ~~~~~~~~40
aI  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
'0~~~~~~
W. to ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ teI  .     0 
IAI   40,g  5  e  a 
ellIt 9  0   i.. 10 0.  0  '0'C,V, %In  --1 1  0 @ a- .  i   CUIJ I .C  C a SE  -ru  ID QC lpi.0
I,  I                                  Cv    IO  a  C
lis   L  iu0C ,'ALC ch.  ZO  9I5 . .flC :..u0 @  aC                   M IWVOC0 
4    0aa CC       t-.0 0   W   P*,; v,e gO -a   q'V,  aoo  ct  ao.0. 0



Z-ti-,_T_ Y-4-
0    r.          :8
C r) Z
...........                                               ....... . .................. . .. . ..
......... .............. . .............. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ............. . ..
C'                                      k
m    X,            ...... .......... ........... ......................             .............................................. ..
0      %J!9             t-A       V              i;           z                          19PS            tjz-                 i i 9          w           :;W        l.
----------- - --------- --------
X
m      ij:e V:                                                                                                                                                rxl
-.jR       !    1       rt0       0
... . .. . ...... . ........ .............-..... .......................
rA
eD
...............
............. . ......
Zi                rt
J.-                                                    Vgo. gi! 41-D.                                                                       6,                    MIS
....... -------------- ...... .
03 70                                                                                                                                                                                                    P4
>
la0
m.g t-I iR=. R b F E                           t:'! 9 Y'L4 F.- t A        hl       m9                                               pin
.................... ....... ...... ......................... ---- - -- - ------------------ - ------ - -
6et: =rp a izz.
......................
fb
f-4
tQ
.. ........
........... ..............
th
..............
fD
c-
. . ............
..........................
="JaU      UbEtAt F.--               'St     a--'=                            %U7Z33;::w
13
Iii6v -91-8 I-St P.-B -Z:Nt k3VARENWE PRM55 0:2 3 2 H 69
MT



34                                                     Annex 2
Table l(b)
MM OBRe agmews HE staM 205518
IV
....... ----------------------------------------------------
SW
R:w                  IficAgi L51PROL jflgpa SIDI OIC44223k                        co
-                    P.
Q:,a Nkg-CL-41ARK JeAar a%gA NbRA62               w1mal Qoaegl-l 23
C4
co
J:                                          ....    .             ---- --                         co
EE
------------------------
Od      v
ez amman RORIM01i
aet                 --      -   - -----
co
Q: OR I
x
-----------------------------
P',                                                                                        RI P.:
----------------------------------------- - ----------------------------------- :..
I
04                                                                                                                  co
CA    0 go
r40
-4 C4
UK
co
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----
0 Ai
lw CA
04                                                                                                   It 9      0
U-4
i-W                                                                                                                  0
gFir, Aiimframma- &VI'sF, vR';4                  EAIIRRM                           rA
96   CA                                                                                                          4i -1`4
0 ei
Li co
0 co
P.
------------------------------------------
m   nmtws rwrA&F. mt-k tv_2wn            At rur'.Rm    ieviER                  jV
4J 64
... ........... ....
04
elope L-Ror VERln      S5 255imeg                               Sd
i
Ng-%
VA
596" WAaf VICARMUZ OFs lal"!5- IM-NU 1-9: R!
co
I-----------                                                                                     =
co
C Ai
co
0
It
.:a Z55241i2i 514SA', Offli,
--- ---------          ---- ---- -- ----- -- -----                                 td rA
M.C
co
4q
to



wua aq3 9uT3vzJaaj uT suol3dormo      I0} E xaUUV 0oz WuaM11-392V  :030H
,emay*9 11B 0o3 suin3e pUs 0380a a81a;JB ioj Z alqtt; *Z xauuV ;asS
.................   . . . ....... .   .   .   .   . ..............  ............... ........................................ ....................................   .   ..........  ............................................. .................................
i           Z    *  1S1  : ls t  ;~~~~~~~~~~~ 4a  m  ion sp It  KU.         go *S 14,
st           ; ~~~~~~~       ~~~~U  S t  , It ti  IY;tln;,  1e s1  u;S  110 XI,S lp wtt I*s
,,,,,         -  -------. ---- ---- , , ~~~~~~I.......  .............  .......  ........ .
!          g!    { il ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!m  LI !m  mg g  a I  IV  .to   "ss 
l       l     i K   atiw} isl  is   sas  !11  tw5ll   1;~~~~~'a  M  OK  at!e" ll
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 I          : t U ;aIieaIttI  Y it ,  elcp *IP g 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ st  | o! s;  ta5U I  !ml  C; 1  se gZ   t I ezmp plp C to@1gq r
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I O,     1 , ti.1 t 4ltW I l z, 110" I :  ; 0  off g
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K    64 I ;  "t "  t, us  i t is  .Ig  .1  ;   *t" Met I1 t al 
t       trg   i 0   i tXa 0 5t*5  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ilt  I  * 1   b} |  in" 91  ;10"4
!    ! 5   i Z   i ti; i Xv 2 i SZ 1  i z  ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~iN 5   moo tt icFX4!
. i0  ;        t     1  . 5  a i t:,lI n1les!'1 
:             !:;  !zs   !*1  w: !"11    tlw   !t    v>*   .* It,         Ot
g         : eg  . *   : "  |  g sf  :Sg  | |  g  " .- |  i Is5  =    .  @ "  i i  OR  itC
8           i "   i  f*'  3 t';;  3 ~~~~~~~~ag .  "  i    :8l ieDt ,  O  0  not g ; at7e  c 
S          . 1   , | i0;  . S;lll I  .; '  . iiZt $   5111  S  1  itt 9 '  i iO , l i ',iiSg 5F   0 E  "  tb ;
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s     S     I    it I !  !  !     !       .           "lo no f1l
~~~~~~~~~~~.     .....   . ....   .....   ..   .  . .......   ....   ...   . . ....   .......   ....................................... .
s  *4   !,    e 8 &a*i l'Q ' 11 ^ i IJIZli~~~~~~~tz Ki DOZE, IW  41 $ a,,4BiIw v i  f,l Os ce 
.... ..... .. ................... ..... ......... .....   .....   .... ......................................  ................  . ..... ..  i .,
.14  Ox  SP I ;.1  Ole    ;q wa 9  n 0  :  itsImloe
t  *m   i 11    uelUOg      ill  i       64        MS"      tnison'
atI-S    t1) ao I1. a%     Ito I  !0, NIV)11  of13tA   d It N: iStn JIM
GI  ml  qi I  !i,  1% (I  iw  sI  o   t  O I



'HUH ani BUTZVMT38081 VF SuO74dwnsse ioj E xauuV ol 3uaumq:ov:jjV :wjotj
S=kalpw) licr      S
104) "Ai      I
x                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Igo  40in    a
0100ANI go 0
..   .........                                                        ..   ..   ......   ..
------------   --------  ..........................................................      ....................  ......   ..
.   .....                        ........      ..   ....
.   ..   ...........          ..........   ....   .  '                           .........   .  .....   ....   .
101 tu  I    Bit  0                      as                 4sc"..      so  94           Ow.1
....    .....   ..  .......                               .........     .......   .......                   ..   .....        ..   ........
-I ---------I ...........                                                                I ......
--------------        1                                                               ---
O'41111   1   1  1                I.... ....   ........                           --------   -  ...   .....
col          ou 61                       ft                   I .1
------------------   . .....                              ........... .                                                     ... .      ... ....          j   ..Qle.fg
61                                                              Sol    I    0 a
I                                             Su
to                                                its           fit                    9"                     tu          In
a                        up              0        6m,           Col         I 0        in                     tu           16i                          I9l"   t
It                                  I                                                     iti           tu            a                               at          W6                            awl
Is                                                                                                                                             boom 0  I  9w  -
iu  I        It                      at                        I        qu   I                       Oup I I          ".Ids is
t        tu            w           I is                A             Kg           srz                      vilrowe    9
61            IF             11        I I                      ari                   lolw                                                           oiuw   l
11            m          igg, I          1        au            irk         t          tu                     ztz         4toz
I   ffl         1619 1         1        Ift                                   w            a        all          ist                                 f
au          0%                                    Kg          1, A        sit                   9K           "I                                  I
It          a            au          6tz 1        1 1         Ios I        goi          11         6-St                   "g          469                                  I It
n                                                                           I 1
Itt            1         fit          ON                                             6u          OU
S90 I         c t        Ms I         G"           II         916                    TM           K                             bir's
fid I                        I                     I                                  To          S9
ot                                                U6            lss                                                       Ca
to         tu              t        its I         103         8                                              I
at:        990           s t        9                                                                        [if                                 t
9           Aiti         gro                      Sol                        13        Kg           im    I   tu
9c            au         tis           I I        vu
ol          Si           au          tu  I        a I         gif          iff          sA         69                 !   bu          bsi                             Ara0
GI          SI           Du          Du  I        0 f         Gig                                  igs                    Ca          ou                            WIV    I
to            au         016 0         t          190           91          c i        tu            a        001         cgf                         it                 Ild"l%   q.-
'DI'        9            au          96           t t,       (K; I         tr,         0 1
0                        we          all z                    0;6 t        Sp   I       i I            4                  (lo          Zs
at         SO   I    A   1,         690 1         tit         Z I        OU   I
91          V.           csl         (Ut A    A   I I         Oil t        us          0           811 1                  6811        6a   1                dilli bWb"
9           St           (ml         Id* c        t 0         tw  0        "a           I          I"  I   .          .   196         106                   I I "'.G "r                           I
9           60           ml          ges 4        0 s         016 9            I       I 0         an  s                  uti         Uf A                   I Sfue "vI             I'ditcas 410as   iii
(H          u            au          m     s                  ou  I   j    ctt         0 6         ebs I                  Ell         TO                       lfttu
It           au          its t        Z, 11       A                                    fit                    16          lot                                all,
au                                   Dal          911,        I          Z16                      If          If
9       .1 1,            au                         0         Su c         AISS        #           Im  I        I        ops          m                                9
I       ;   u            ou          tit I        t           its         ffl          0 1         S"           A        fti          Est                            ;fli
.   W             cm         ttt 0        c           lot          if           I I        sit          a         AT          ut                               119
I        W             Mc         a"  I         9 6        .9Z I         oft         I I        W61           I        itt          198                            "Is
AI                                  cm   I          t                                  s I        rti
It                                                                            0           oa           lu  II                      I                              "I                110005        $II0
i    t           II           16          lic f        I, s        m   I        sn          s I        40                                                     tml           v  c
u             au                                               ao                                             19f
lis          f               I                       I                               ama         W       I        A
a           rA                       III 4'        lo         WI A         go          I I        alit                                OU        -.1.1    I B   E                          41010"ll lei
91         a         1,  gol         oil II  1,   I t         oil I        ga          a I         oil               I   6it          ut     A             111;r       I t
I.              1                                                                                       6w      14,
ti          ot           (Si         ug             I         CIS                                                                     lo
"I                                            MS!     1.          I
ou             Goved VMS same
lrix lrm
.     ..   ..   ........  .....  ..   ...  ....  .   ...   .  ....   ....  ............................... I................................   ..  .
$sa          -Ca       is  48)      is  tj)i leqm    Ca) A  in  ti A           I-   too)       lob)    A
v a 1.
It                                                            ........  ...  ------- -
i       stimmAII.All                                                                                                      A              ag     .. 1,
lonw"ll, Am       at   I    lip *1                       I
................  ...............  ....  .  ....  ..  ...  ..........  ...  .........  ..  ...........................  .  ....  ...   ................................  .....  ...  .
92'3*Vo.xd-qnS Lq M                            snju3S 91
uodeV UOT.:Ia-rdmoo 2ze-rol-a
(CINI-CLEZ Ul) m3rom imuoomAsa Nouvinvai TUmNiAoRa (mwzs
VISRKOQKI



- 37 -
Annex 3
Attachment
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECr (lIn 2375)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Notes on the Reestimation of the ERRs
1.    Gneral The reestimation of the ERR for the PCR was calculated under a study dated
March 1989, prepared for GOI/DGWRD entitled' Status Reports and Actions Plans for the
Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project' and prepared by consultants (Sir M. MacDonald
& Partners in association with PT Indah Karya). The following assumptions and data were used.
2.    Costs to completion. Costs to complete schemes were evaluated from consideration of the
works to be undertaken to fully complete and develop each escheme and based on current unit
rates. Annual works and expenditure schedules were prepared for each scheme under individual
Status Reports (for 66 schemes) and Action Plan Report (for 18 schemes) and are given in Annex
2. The works required to full completion for each scheme is given in Annex 1. The unit rates used
for land clearance and development are those proposed in the Action Plan.for the Muko-Muko
Irrigation Scheme (Bengkulu province) since these costs are likely to be typical for these activities.
3.    Economic Analysis. A reestimation of the ERR has been carried out for all schemes. The
analyses consider full costs expended to date (converted to 1988 prices), and as applicable,
incremental costs to completion and full land development of schemes. Standard assumptions have
been used in carrying out the analyses because of the large number of schemes to be reestmated
and for lack of better information. Thus, it is assumed that schemes would reach full development
in year four. Other assumptions, including crop yields (with and without the Project), crop prices,
and the rate of build up of benefit, reflect best performance data available for similar types of
irrigation development on the Outer Islands of Indonesia.
4.    Annex 3 gives total costs for each scheme, cost per ha and EIRR at full development,
taking into consideration all sunk costs. The results should be considered as indicative only, but
are sufficient to demonstrate that the additional investments for almost all schemes would be
economically worthwhile, assuming that GOVDGNWRD take appropriate actions to address the
lessons learnt from the project.
5 .   The Indonesian Currency Conversion Factors for Construction in Indonesia to convert
historic prices to December 1988 prices are as follows:
FACTOR                   YEAR        FACIOR
1973 - 74   7.39                     1980 - 81    2.47
74 - 75      6.43                    81 - 82      2.15
75 - 76      5.58                    82 - 83      1.87
76 - 77     4.86                     83 - 84      1.44
77 - 78     4.34                     84 - 85      1.29
78 - 79      3.88                    85 - 86      1.19
79 - 80      2.76                    86 - 87      1.08
87 - 88      1.00
Sources: BPS (biro Pusat Statistik) and IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent.



N    | SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT |
4~~~~~~4 ~~~~~N
iiA tCE"                                                                                     i
k  - \               ~~SUMATER A
S U LAWE SI
SAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MND
m                 ~~~~~~~~~SE: rAAIBANG
- - LUOIm AM8ACAAPG 13
r- VAS 04NO                       AfA LONASO
SUMATERA                 Dc'R&*                         s,FsaAN
00O9HAN AWANTARO              SBV-
- PA\l/ PA_A GEAN                                            _   4 JLULt
DAvAu NI'OO tRAJO
- 6rERN4N MUt NOtog
SEBEPANG GUM/MJG                                            Ssr
WES     P                       - -bUPA AGUPu
WESS   ; R I A U  9   -su tl t CU*C   ,     f k *  ~CENTRAL      X     @
WUSAER                                                               SULAWESI ,r          wttaw
s~~ At E               -_;                                             -                .r 
SOUTH
RwANXA 4fwAINJUt/C      .6 \75J AM B I                               ' S ULAWES I r 
W/IVC.W,h 4r?4&At4 -) , l_tz^                  x     t 
94~ANO^ SANGICI. S {                                                               % *  /( SOUTH EAST SULAWESI W r
P,ATOAIV  1ErJ..I?                      P /,LEMBAAOP.6L                                                  0
Su4rv41JG sTU.rizv  --  z \   ,  _        EB    <v   >               t       '  PA NG                 a
oArA~~s su,/r/ s -  s  /  <  j,,   ~~~SOUTH                           11      0.S,?<) 2E>C IC m
/NilfR#rU*A<                 SUMATERA                                                            M t0
S./hC4f AP,'  _ _ ENGKLU6  ;L <s                                                           A      o
cr0
LgGEND                            BENGKULU   ;   1.   ,-(SAOVt1=@P 
LAMPUNGGG/E                            l SOAIA r  
+~~ * P,o~~.ce Se,s,da,v  41R NOAA I                                                        ID &/V
P.o,.,me Cop.o0            41/7 NIP15!                    L AMPJ,10ONG                POt,ff 
*   SC1eme Loco?,on           A R KE'OJUR7AN                                              KArA/VGAI A-
AIR? N4SA.         41/                                                             Cl.
L1  too   ?UO   301   I  . .                                  0      100  _ 00     30o0"m
SCALE                                                        SCALE
cmj



SUMATERA                SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              SULAWESI
DouD^>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0L P  P.O4 Swt 10FI
*OSD.  ACEPI                                                                       551  P AS  M(d\
PilL 4  P  6A V*01
0  so  too , 0200  3000\ 1
*AA R PA',,   NO RT  1                       S CALE           _ -   rK
i SUDAATllA                                   romRTH SULAWST SU S  0
R\I A   U                                                       PL  O pA N UL V1
ILrM8AtJ II& /E'Roa                         CENRA < 44   Mg  SULAWESOU  S  UAWESS I
**4-**4  POVINC  BSUIMDA TERAAI                     L(610  't.sBD O                          P
&A.VD49 PANJAI                            ANBJAWTA 
C4A0AP fA44Na rADAS  -   \ S 4 '  J A g  K I  }/g2/  <  <   )  2   <   e ePA VDAN  0
A"@AfS#frfjYD~'C  J AM x                                              94 JV4 &L$1J^"  VA /   or1gWS uAtl
wa*OAh tR  AF O  \          GA 4DALAPUO- 
0A*04*uPerASA8lf SAXAM PACAsS              P   o                WOPDCO
AIR BENKEPIA PAl BATUORLA,  APR KEAIl  uA                           t
6CthEllSlLOCtllON~~~ 4hftt   601                                                     z BtRtS VUOtA St- 
AJR 0CS AIrfO            VALESSUTH CST SUAW,                             S
AIR JVOKAN Sf1AI      TAjb(IAA'                                            U
LEGEND  4I0 "   ID                                           J   I V
PAOVIWEBOMDAUt  afftSF 4" }  a|               &"V  LIft[#lPSotb 
As~~~~~~~~~JNP             rA DtJAN.



