Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3700-INI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$89.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         =  Rp 970
Rp 100          =  US$0.103
Rp 1 million    =  US$1,030.93
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
Binlak II  - The Directorate of Irrigation's Subdirectorate of
Small- and Medium-Scale Irrigation Construction
DAAD       - Directorate of Agricultural Area Development
DGWRD      - Directorate General of Water Resources Development
Diperta    - Provincial Office of DAAD
GOI        - The Government of Indonesia
PRIS       - Provincial Irrigation Service
Repelita   - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II,, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84,
Repelita IV,, 1984-89)
SEKNEG     - Sekretaris Negara (Cabinet Secretariat)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $89 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable rate
Project
Description:    The main objective of the project is to strengthen the
irrigation services of eight selected Other Island pro-
vinces, particularly in project preparation, implementa-
tion, and operation and maintenance capabilities.
The proposed project is the second to focus on building up
the capacity of the Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS)
and project actions include institutional strengthening of
eight PRIS; strengthening or the Ministry of Agriculture's
services for land development and water management exten-
sion; a three-year time slice of the Government of
Indonesia's (GOI's) Fourth National Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita IV) in the eight provinces for the program
for the design and construction of small-scale irrigation
schemes, design for 5,000 ha and construction of 34,000 ha
of irrigation works at full development; a three-year time
slice of the design and construction program for medium-
scale irrigation schemes to serve 45,000 ha for design and
26,200 ha of irrigation works at full development; and
consulting services for training. More efficient project
selection and greater involvement of farmers and local
authorities in the project cycle will lead to a greater
impact from irrigation and steadily increasing farm output
and incomes. Risks associated with the project include
failure to recruit adequate staff, delays in land develop-
ment, and inadequate operation and maintenance standards.
These risks are addressed by the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
…---- ($ million) ------
Institutional Strengthening          3.6      4.5        8.1
Irrigation Construction
Small-scale                      31.9      14.7       46.6
Medium-scale                     33.2      16.6       49.8
Consultant Services                  1.5      3.0        4.5
Base Cost                    70.2      38.8      109.0
Physical contingencies          6.8       3.9       10.7
Price contingencies            22.2       8.3       30.5
Tota:L Project Cost          99.2      51.0      150.2
Front-end fee on Bank loan           -      0.2        0.2
Total Financing Required   99.2 /a  51.2         150.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                38.3     50.7       89.0
Government of Indonesia             60.9      0.5/b    61.4
Total                        99.2      51.2      150.4
Estimated Disbursements: Bank FY          1984      1985      1986    1987    1988
------------- ($ million) ------------
Annual          0.6    '20.1       29.6    29.6      9.1
Cumulative      0.6      20.7     50.3    79.9    89.0
Rate of Return:  Over 30% on typical small-scale scheme const:ruction and 16%
on typical medium-scale scheme construction, which together
constitute about 90% of total project costs. It is not
possible to quantify ERRs on the other components of the
project which concern institutional strengthening.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4539-IND, dated December 16, 1983.
/a  Costs include taxes on civil works contracts of $2.0 million, equivalent.
lb Foreign exchange content of vehicles under reserve procurement.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA FOR THE SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $89.0 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Second
Provincial Irrigation Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth with Lower Oil Prices"
(No. 4279-IND dated May 12, 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for
the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra
and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has
areas with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About
20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Other Islands,
and the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a. The 1982
estimate of GNP per capita is $580, which places Indonesia amongst middle
income countries./2
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Non-
formal Education Project (No. P-3659-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-315, dated October 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive
Directors on November 8, 1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbuleance of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment. However, for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
ex-hange earnings from oil.  Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 biillion in 1980/81, when the current account
enjoyed a surplus of $2.1 billion.  Oil receipts also provide about 70% of
Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained increase in
demand via the budget.  The pattern of expenditures has also helped foster
diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for agriculture,
through investment in infrastructure, support services and ef.-ective use of
subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an agricultural
growth rate of almost 4% per annum over the past decade, and rmovement towards
self-sufficiency in rice.  During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing has also enjoyed
a high growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but this has been
predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the macroeconomic resource position has changed dramati-
cally. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume and
price of oil exports have led to a turnaround in the current account of about
$10 billion in two years, with a deficit of almost: $7 billion in 1982/83,
equivalent to about 8% of GNP, a level that could not be sustained for more
than a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effectively to the
worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of 19E3, introduced a
comprehensive package of policy measures to reduce! the current account
deficit. First, in January 198.3, an austere 1983/84 budget was introduced,
that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies con oil, fertilizer and food,
and a squeeze on current expenditures. Second, on March 30, 1983, the Rupiah
was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970 to the US dollar, without changing
the full convertibility of the currency. This was, in part, in response to
the substantial private sector capital outflow over the previous months.
Third, in May, a major rephasing of public investment was announced, in
particular of large-scale import-intensive projects in the industrial, elec-
tric power and transport sectors. These measures have already ensured the
effective management of the short-run foreign exchange position and should
reduce the current account deficits to sustainable levels over the next two to
three years. As a consequence of the changed resource position, growth was
low in 1982 and will continue to be low in 1983. In order to minimize the
impact on domestic incomes and etmployment, the Government is reallocating any
rupiah savings from the rephased projects to public expenditure activities
with a high domestic content.



-3-
Policy for Medium-Term Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth rates
be restored in the medium term: a rate of growth of the order of 6% per annum
for the non-oil economy is probably necessary to have a significant impact
on employment creation and poverty alleviation in the 1980s. This will
require the diversification of the economy away from its present dependence on
oil, for both foreign exchange earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government has already taken major policy initiatives to
mobilize domestic resources. This involves both the increased mobilization
of private savings, especially of the household sector, through the
financial system, and the diversification of sources of public finance away
from oil exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced a
major financial reform on June 1, 1983, that includes the significant
deregulation of deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in
subsidized refinancing facilities from the central bank and the removal of
all credit ceilings. In addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this
should also lead to increased efficiency of resource use. With respect to
public finance, the most important measures in the recent past have been the
large increases in domestic fuel prices to reduce the subsidy on
consumption; subsidies on food and fertilizer prices have also been reduced,
and the Government is in the process of introducing a major tax reform.
8.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
non-oil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
quence, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be alloca-
ted to exports if growth is to be maintained, especially in the relatively
labor-intensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import
replacement. This will require measures to improve the overall efficiency
of the sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory
framework, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and
specific export promotion policies. The Government has already introduced a
range of export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import
substitution bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for
exporters, raise product quality and improve marketing capacity. In August
1983 it was further announced that there would be a major overhaul in the
regulatory framework for private investment, with the objective of simplify-
ing and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        Agriculture will also continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.



- 4 -
This achievement is largely a resu'Lt of the rehabilitation and expansion of
irrigation systems, the dissemination of new agricultural technology, and
widespread access to seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical
infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable
market environment and good support services will be the main determinants
of further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now
very old. However, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has a highly ambitious
program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating substantial
investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution and
marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indic:ates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so.
Per capita consumption of the bottom 40% in the expenditure distribution is
estimated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These
gains are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduc-
tion in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from
47 to 53./i These improvements should not, however, mask the continued
existence of widespread poverty. Almost 40% of the population. are estimated
to have been in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, fraction of th,s population, and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages.
However, in the 1979-81 period, bumper rice harvests appear to have led to
improvements in wages and incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes on
parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops declined in the face of
the international recession. Following the devaluation this situation will
likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed by the international
recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income.  The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in
1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incr(emental employ-
ment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and. 1980 population censuses.



- 5 -
rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikely that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the future. If an adequate growth in labor demand
is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies specifically
oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring overall growth.
In the short-run, the maintenance of employment-intensive public works
activities can make a significant contribution.
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facili-
ties, notably at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an
improvement in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This
will have to be complemented by a major expansion in water supply and
sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the
1970s is to be maintained. Currently, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the
urban population have access to safe water /1 compared with Government
targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment policies
outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital inflows.
Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of significant
net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to be smoothly
implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and the development
process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past financial asset
accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves declined by
$3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an additional
$0.9 billion. While the reserve cover is still adequate, the scope for
additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of future deficits
will have to come from medium- and long-term public borrowing. About $5 bil-
lion per annum of new commitments will be required over the next three years
to finance the projected deficits during the adjustment period. It is
reasonable to expect that at least 40% will come from official development
assistance (ODA) - at the June meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia the donors pledged over $2.2 billion for 1983/84 - with some
increase in borrowings from the financial markets and continued use of
official and private export credits.
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 6 -
14.       Total public debt outstanding at end-1982 was $18.3 billion, with
an additional $12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 54% of the total and no short-term debt;
the average maturity of new commitments was 15 years in 1982. The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of exports, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at
about 25% in the mid-1980s. This is largely a consequence of the decline in
anticipated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt
burden is high by Indonesia's past standards, but remains within the limits
of prudent debt management. Backed by the effective programn of domestic
adjustment, Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external
finance without undue difficulty.,
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 82 Bank loans amouanting to $6,,127.5 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9%, compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutrition,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with
the objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Banlk
Group lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure anad production facilities. Special attention
was also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical
assistance needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita
III (1979-84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high
growth and stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special
emphasis on more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.
This focus, which was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic
economic report, required greater attention to employment generation
(particularly in the industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public
services. While Bank lending was already consistent with these objectives,
increased emphasis has been given to these priorities.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Nonformal Education Project (No. P-3659-IND), circulated under cover
of R83-315, dated October 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive
Directors on November 8, 1983.



17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. The
only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a rapid expan-
sion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the severe shortage
of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is
focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will build on
Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource-intensive industries.
This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facili-
tate sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued lending is
concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree crops will
continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated.
Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services, in population,
health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly
emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative low-cost
solutions.
18.       The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83. The poor FY80 ratio was
in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by
122%, compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected
implementation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower
of course compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 8 -
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition,
procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation.  In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of the major causes
of implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage :in the project cycle. As a result of these
efforts, improvements are taking place.  This was reflected in an increase in                       4
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $582.8 million in FY83. It is
nevertheless important that the Banlk and GOI maintain their efforts.
19,        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as t'he per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625.  Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the fourth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.  Projects at an advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Highway Betterment and Second
Swamp Reclamation Projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND IRRIGATION
Objectives for the Agriculture S_ctor
21.        The agriculture sector is of overwhelming; importance to the great
majority of Indonesians. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas,
and agriculture is the major source of income for about two thirds of rural
households and one tenth of urban households.  GOI's major objectives for the
agricultural and rural sectors are to: (a) create productive employment to
raise the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
Food Crops
22.        Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI has
concentrated on increasing the produc:tion of rice, the preferred staple food
of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased



- 9 -
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehab-
ilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the GOI rice intensi-
fication schemes. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. during the
years 1974-77, in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to
restrictions on private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of
untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases.  Since
then, however, rice production has increased at an annual rate of 6.8% from
1977-82, reaching an estimated total in 1982 of 23.3 million tons. Output
of secondary foodcrops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet
potatoes) grew at an average of 1.6% p.a. over the past decade. Neverthe-
less, the gains in food crop output over the 1970s did not keep pace with
t        the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand, stimulated by rising incomes.  By the
late 1970s, Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a
record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in
1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4 million tons in 1978. However, given
the significant increases in rice production recorded recently, Indonesia
has greatly reduced its dependence on the world rice market, and, assuming
continuing investments in irrigation and supporting services, is expected to
be self-sufficient during the remainder of the decade. In view of the
importance GOI attaches to increased foodcrop production, the Bank and GOI
have undertaken a series of sector studies related to food crop production:
(a) Irrigation Program Review, October 1978, Report 2027a-IND; (b) Review of
Support Services for Food Crop Production, December 1978, Report 2060a-IND;
(c) Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops, March 1979, Report 2374-IND; and
(d) Policy Options and Strategies for Major Food Crops, April 1983, Report
3686b-IND. Additional information on the sector can be found in these
reports.
The Irrigation Sector
23.       Almost all rice production gains since 1968 have resulted from
improvements in irrigated and wetland farming. It is difficult to quantify
the contributions of the major factors (irrigation expansion and
improvement, modern varieties, and fertilizers), but it is estimated that
about 16% of the increases between 1972 and 1981 are associated solely with
expansion and improvements in irrigation, about 9% with improved rice
varieties and fertilizer use, and some 75% with the joint interaction of
these factors.
24.       Improved rice varieties and fertilizer use are likely to play a
lesser role in increasing Indonesia's future rice production. The use of
high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice is already high (about 80% of the
irrigated and wetland crop) and is unlikely to exceed 85% in 1985 and 90% in
1990. Fertilizer use is also high, particularly on Java, and nitrogen



- 10 -
applications above present levels wrould be wasted and cause crop losses due
to lodging and greater insect damage. With such already high fertilizer and
HYV use, future yield increases will depend primarily on improving the
quality of irrigation and water management.
25.       In order to meet projected demand for rice in 1990, GOI plans to
make sufficient irrigation investments in Repelita IV to provide for addi-
tional production of about 1.2 million tons of paddy. This will enable GOI,
with reasonable security, to sustain self-sufficiency. In addition, irri-
gation-related investments are needed to reclaim tidal swamp for transmi-
gration areas, to develop municipal water supplies and hydropower, and for
flood control. Investments in irrigation during Repelita IV will be about
$5.4 billion (current dollars) including $1.6 billion in foreign exchange
costs.  Annual GOI budgets are expected to be around $750 million./l
Bank Group Assistance to the Irrigation Subsector
26.       Since 1968, the Bank Group has provided $864 million in support of
irrigation in Indonesia.  The early Bank Group-assisted projects were
designed to increase rice production quickly by rehabilitating major irriga-
tion systems, upgrading them, constructing drainage and flood protection
works, and installing tertiary networks.  More recent projects, e.g., the
Fifteenth Irrigation (Cr. 994-IND) and Sixteenth Irrigation (Ln. 2118-IND)
Projects, include significant measures to strengthen institutional capacity,
particularly in planning, programming, budgeting, and management information
systems. The Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project (Ln.
2119-IND) is the first provincial irrigation development project. Progress
under this first provincial irrigation development project in East Java is
satisfactory, though there were initial delays in providing staffing and
facilities that slowed the completion of engineering designs and early
contracting of works. Current construction progress is about 60% of
appraisal estimates. All consultant staff are in place; a major portion of
East Java provincial staff have been appointed; and engineering designs
accelerated in spite of GOI's overall budget constraints.  GOI and the Bank
agree on the need now to strengthen the provincial irrigation and agricul-
tural services so as to enhance Ltheir ability to construct, operate and
maintain irrigation systems, which is the focus of this project. Technical
assistance provided with Bank support has successfully trained many local
consultants and GOI staff, but large and complex irrigation works, espe-
cially those presenting difficult: economic choices, still require Bank
assistance, especially if cofinancing packages are to be sought by GOI.
27.       Other major priorities for Bank inputs into the irrigation program
will be directed towards improving farm level water use efficiency; impro-
ving system operation and maintenance (O&M); and ensuring adequate cost
recovery. Better water use at the farm level is being approached by
supporting water user associations for tertiary networks. Such associations
/1 These budgets do not include foreign borrowing.



- 11 -
assist in planning these networks and, following construction, are responsible
for operating and maintaining them. Training of officials responsible for the
water users, water user association leaders, and key farmers is under way
(Ln. 2118-IND) and the proposed project includes also agricultural extension
service training and demonstrations in efficient water use, together with land
development programs. Current standards of O&M of the main systems are
frequently inadequate, though GOI has consistently raised the level of funds
allocated for such purposes, and has decided in FY84/85 to slow the rate of
new irrigation construction and divert development funds to improve O&M
standards. Bank assistance in O&M is designed to improve the organization and
training of the provincial services which are responsible for all O&M
activities, and to develop and demonstrate new techniques presently being
carried out under the Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project (Ln.
2119-IND) and proposed in this project.
28.       Cost recovery through the land tax (IPEDA) is efficient, levies
being linked to the productive capacity of farm lands. The amount collected
fully covers the O&M costs of the main systems, and farmers themselves pay in
kind for O&M of tertiary networks. Capital cost recovery is, however,
normally less than 10%, though this is an equitable position fully consistent
with the poverty and small farm sizes of most beneficiaries. The same
principles are followed in this project, especially since many of the
beneficiaries are recent transmigrants. Bank assistance regarding cost
recovery will seek a more direct linkage of IPEDA levies to O&M allocations.
It will also seek to ensure that O&M funds are spent effectively, a
prerequisite for any future increases in irrigation cost recovery levels.
Project Performance Audits
29.       The first five Bank Group-assisted irrigation projects in
Indonesia have been completed. Project Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for four of them,/1 and a follow-up Impact Evaluation Report on the
first project (Cr. 127--IND) was released in July 1983./2 A Project Completion
Report for the fifth (Cr. 514-IND) is being prepared.
30.       In these early projects, the most serious problems were construction
delays and cost overruns. Delays arose mostly because of GOI's then cumber-
some local bidding, contracting and fund release procedures, and shortage of
local funds. Cost overruns were due to additional work required following
detailed design, and increased unit costs due to unexpected rapid inflation
and construction delays. The cost increases have been more than offset by
higher rice prices and economic rates of return of the projects are expected
to exceed 40%. Corrective action has been taken in subsequent projects.
/L Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978. Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.
/2 Report No. 4575.



- 12 -
31.       Other problem areas identified include: improving operation and
maintenance services at provincial levels; properly supporting water user
associations; and promoting greater efficiency in water use. The necessity to
find solutions for such end-user problems, which has been an important focus
of many recent Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia, has increased
because of the massive irrigation investments made in recent years and
those planned during Repelita IV, which enhance the need for collaborative
action between irrigation, agriculture and local government authorities.
Disbursement Performance
32.       The disbursements of previous Bank irrigation loans in Indonesia
currently run at about 61% of appraisal estimates.  Progress has been made in  
improving disbursements (which were below 50% in FY80) through more intensive
supervision by the Bank's resident staff in Indonesia, and by accelerating
start-up activities for new projects and using statements of expenditures for
payments against small civil works contracts. In addition, short lists and
proposed direct invitations for consulting services are agreed with the Bank
prior to loan negotiations, and contracts for civil works for the first year's
construction are usually tendered and negotiated prior to loan effectiveness.
These actions, together with other continuing Bank assistance to improve
contract procedures and the domestic construction industry, should further
reduce implementation and disbursement delays.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project, which was formulated by GOI's Directorate General of
Water Resources Development (DGWRD) with the assistance of Bank staff, was
appraised in February 1983. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4639-IND) is
being distributed separately.  Negotiations were held in Waslhington in
November 1983, with the Indonesian Delegation led by Mr. Soebandi
Wirosoemarto, Assistant to the Minister of Public Works.  Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Project Features
34.       The project has three primary objectives:  (a) to strengthen the
irrigation services (PRIS) of eight selected Other Island provinces,/l
particularly in project preparation and implementation and operation and
maintenance capabilities; (b) to improve land development and water
management extension services; and (c) to support a three-year time slice of
GOI's small-scale and medium-scale irrigation schbeme design and construction
program in the eight project provinces. The project includes the following
components.
/1 In Sumatra: Riau, Bengkulu, South and West Sumatra; and in
Sulawesi: North, South, Central and Southeast Sulawesi.



- 13 -
(a)  Strengthening of Eight Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS)
and the Directorate of Irrigation's Subdirectorate of Small-
and Medium-Scale Irrigation Construction (Binlak II)
(i) Increasing staff numbers. The staff strength of each PRIS
would be increased to a level sufficient to undertake most
design activities for the small-scale program and part of the
medium-scale program by the end of Repelita IV. (These
programs are described in (c) below.) The number of engi-
neers is expected to increase by 80% and technical staff in
the PRIS by 60% by the end of Repelita IV. An additional
10 civil engineers, 16 diploma holders and 40 technicians for
the various provinces have already been appointed to meet the
1983/84 requirements. Binlak II staff will be increased by
50% by 1985/86 to supervise project implementation.
(ii) Formal training. Formal training for professional staff
would be carried out at regional training centers and by
short-term specialist consultants. This training, which would
include courses in planning, implementing and operating and
maintaining the small- and medium-scale schemes, would
benefit 554 professional staff over the three-year period.
In addition, formal training for 432 technicians would be
provided at regional training centers in surveying and
mapping, drafting, cost estimation, construction supervision,
and operation and maintenance over the three-year period.
(iii) On-the-job Training. On-the-job training would be provided by
consultants. Each PRIS would have one foreign and one local
consultant over a 20 month period. Two foreign and one local
coordinator would be based in Binlak II in Jakarta. The
approval of the contract for consultants' services required for
training is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01
of the draft Loan Agreement). DGWRD will evaluate annually
the impact of the training program and determine, in consul-
tation with the Bank, any changes that seem desirable to
achieve the training objectives.
(iv) Expanding facilities of each PRIS. PRIS facilities would be
augmented through provision of buildings, vehicles, and
equipment for drafting, surveying, and soil, hydrologic and
water quality testing.
(b) Strengthening of the Directorate of Agricultural Area Development
(DAAD) within the Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
and its provincial offices for land development (Diperta)
(i) Pilot land development facilities would be established on a
selected small-scale irrigation scheme in each province. The



-14 -
project would provide related addiitional field offices,
equipment, light land development equipment for lease to
farmers, and vehicles.
(ii) Field trials and demonstrations of soil and water management
techniques would be conducted on selected farms in newly
completed irrigation schemes in each of the eight provinces,
in close association with the existing Regional Extension
Centers. The project would provide related offices, staff
housing, agricultural machinery, testing instruments and
vehicles.
(iii) Training of DAM) and Diperta Staff,  Training would be provi-
ded by consultants. Two foreign consultants will supervise
eight local consultants (one per province) for land
development and four for water management.
(c) Irrigation construction and design.
(i) Small-scale irrigation. The project includes a three-year
time slice of expenditures for design of 10 small-scale
schemes for 5,000 ha and construction of about 80 new
small-scale irrigation schemes in the eight project provinces
which will irrigate about 34,000 ha at full development.
These schemes will be selected according to minimum criteria
that were established by DGWRD with USAID suppcrt./I The
small-scale schemes are relatively simple and have few
control structures, generally average 400 ha in size, and
cost about $1,500/ha, including land development.
(ii)  Medium-scale irrigation.  The project also includes a three-
year time slice of expenditures for design of 9 medium-scale
schemes for 45,000 ha in the eight project provinces and
construction of six medium-scale schemes in four of these
provinces /2 which will serve a total area of about 26,200
ha. Appraisals for these schemes were prepared by the
Directorate of Planning and Programming in DGWRD, and
reviewed by the Bank.  Costs of medium-scale schemes
($3,500/ha to $4,500/ha) are higher than for small-scale
schemes because they have more control structures, forest
clearing and land' development, new roads, and are in more
remote sites.
/I Related USAID loans: Sederhana (small-scale) -Irrigation and Land
Development I and II (Project Nos. 497-0244 and 497-0252).
/2 West Sumatra, Bengkulu, South Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi.



- 15 -
35.       During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that the
small- and medium-scale schemes will be carried out in accordance with
procedures and specifications satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.06, 3.07,
and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). These include specifications,
procedures and standards for: (a) selection of small-scale schemes; (b) design
and construction of small- and medium-scale schemes; (c) required staffing;
(d) coordination between irrigation and land development activities;
(e) formation and training of water user groups; (f) monitoring and reporting
systems for irrigation schemes; and (g) catchment protection measures.
Organization and Management
36.       The DGWRD would be responsible for overall project coordination,
through the Directorate of Irrigation, assisted by the Directorate of Planning
and Programming in DGWRD for the evaluation and appraisal of proposed small-
and medium-scale schemes. Each PRIS will be responsible for implementation of
irrigation construction in its respective province. The Directorate General
of Food Crops Agriculture through DAAD and the Provincial Offices (Diperta)
will execute the land clearing, land formation, and farmer advisory
components. The Directorate of Irrigation and DAAD will be the funding
channel to the PRIS for loan and government funds, in keeping with GOI's
requirement that only central government entities administer external
assistance (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Ministries of
Forestry and Agriculture will prepare and implement catchment protection
measures for the medium-scale schemes.
Project Cost and Financing
37.       Total project costs /1 are estimated-at $150.4 million (including
$0.2 million front-end fee, and $2.0 million in local civil works taxes) of
which $51.2 million (34%) is the foreign exchange cost. All project costs are
expressed in mid-1983 prices. Unit rates for small-scale construction are
based on similar civil works costs incurred in each province between 1980 and
1982. Unit rates of medium-scale construction are based on ongoing contracts
for similar work in the provinces concerned. Estimated monthly costs of local
and foreign consultants are $2,500 and $12,000, respectively./2 A 10% allow-
ance has been included for physical contingencies. Local price contingencies
are 20% for 1983, 15% in 1984, 11% in 1985 and 7% thereafter, and foreign
price contingencies are 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6%
thereafter.
/1 "Total project costs" refers to expenditures incurred in the first three
years of works which will take five years to complete. 66% of overall
program costs will be incurred during the three year time slice.
/2 Comprising billing rate, international travel, relocation and local
expenses (internal travel and housing).



- 16 -
38.       The proposed Bank loan of $89 million would finance about 60% of
total project costs, net of taxes, and including the front-end fee of
$0.2 million./l  The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange costs
($50.7 million) of the project-, excluding the indirect foreign exchange cost
of vehicles procured locally (SO.5 million), and $38.3 million of local costs.
GOI will finance the balance of project costs of $61.4 million, and would be
responsible for completing the works in the remaining two years.
Procurement and Disbursement
39.       Civil works ($102.2 million) will be widely dispersed and labor
intensive. At least 65% of the civil works contracts will fall between
$0.2 million and $1.5 million in value. These works are unlikely to be
attractive to foreign contractors and will be tendered by the PRIS on the                     e
basis of GOI's local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been used
in Bank supported irrigation projects for severa:L years.  Equipment ($0.7
million) will be procured by the Directorate of Logistics (within DGWRD),
using GOI procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank for LCB and prudent
shopping. The Bank would not disburse against expenditures f'or vehicles,
which would be subject to reserve procurement.
40.       Contract Review.  The Directorate of Irrigation and the
Procurement Control Unit of DGW4RD will review awards proposed by the PRIS
for all civil works contracts over $0.2 million. SEKNEG /2 approval will be
obtained also for contracts ovier $0.5 million. Contracts below $0.2 million
will be authorized by the PRIS concerned. The Bank will review, prior to
tendering and award, about 21 contracts (valued at $36 million), each over
$1.5 million, covering an aggregate of about 30% of the value of civil works.,
Another 130 contracts totalling about $60 million and between $0.2 million and
$1.5 million in size will be reviewed post award on a sample basis. Contracts
smaller than $0.2 million (totaling $6.2 million) will not be reviewed by
the Bank, and will be financed fully through the GOI budget. For consultants,
invitation documents, proposed awards, and contracts will be reviewed by the
Bank. Equipment procurement (EL total of $0.7 million) will not be reviewed by
the Bank because of its simple nature and small value.
41.       Disbursements will be: made at the rate of 100% of a:Ll foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment, 95% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment and 65% of expenditures for
other locally procured equipment. Loan funds will also be disbursed against
100% of consultant services costs, training and related materials, and civil
works costs for buildings. Disbursements will be made at the rate of 75% of
the cost of civil works contracts cf $0.2 million in value or above, for
small- and medium-scale irrigation scheme construction. Disbursements for
progress payments on small civil works contracts would be against statements
of expenditure.
/1  The Bank's share ot costs to complete program construction over five
years is 42%.
/2 SEKNEG: The State Cabinet Secretariat required by Presidential
Decree (Kepres 14A of 1980) to review and authorize all major contract
awards.



- 17 -
Accounts and Audits
42.       Consultant accounting advisors engaged under the Seventeenth
Irrigation (East Java Province) Project (Ln. 2119-IND) will review the
accounting systems of each PRIS. During negotiations agreement was reached
that all agencies involved in project implementation would furnish to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year: (a) certified
copies of audited financial statements, and (b) audit reports of such scope
and detail as the Bank may reasonably have requested, including reports on
statements of expenditure (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
43.       Operation and maintenance (O&M) of all irrigation works is the
responsibility of the PRIS, with funds supplemented by the Central Government.
The major weakness of O&M seems to be the result of inadequate technical and
operational staff at the sectional and sub-sectional operational level. The
project will address this through training and staffing increases (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
44.       Under the Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Project
(Ln. 2119-IND), a project monitoring and evaluation system is being
introduced by the Directorate of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD) and the
East Java Irrigation Service. Progress, however, is insufficient to judge how
far and how fast this system should be introduced throughout the irrigation
sector. Accordingly, this project will follow existing monitoring systems
that have been prepared by the Subdirectorate for Small- and Medium-Scale
Irrigation Construction (Binlak II) and by DAAD, with the help of USAID.
Reports for each crop season will be submitted to the head of each
provincial irrigation service, and reviewed by the Provincial Irrigation
Committees before the next crop season. The GOI will prepare quarterly
implementation reports which compare performance against progress, identify
constraints and recommend action required, and extract lessons for planning
future irrigation development.
Cost Recovery
45.       The current Bank estimate of the absolute poverty line for rural
areas in Indonesia is $112 per capita per annum. The majority of project
beneficiaries have incomes below this. As a result of the project, incomes
in the medium-scale schemes are expected to rise by an average of about 170%
to about $370 and in the small-scale schemes to almost double to about $169.
Indonesian farmers pay land taxes and in-kind payments to their village
water masters who are responsible for the tertiary network operation and



- 18 -
maintenance.  Project beneficiaries are expected to increase these annual
payments to about $22/ha per year in medium-scale schemes and to about
$18/ha per year in small-scale schemes. These payments will, fully cover O&M
costs for the whole system.  Overall cost recovery indices will be less than
6%, but this level of cost recovery is reasonable in view of the low income;
of the beneficiaries.
Benefits and Justification
46.       Strengthening the PRIS and improving their coordination with
agricultural and local government services will lead to important economic
benefits both (a) in terms of increasing efficiency in the program for
constructing small- and mediumi-scale irrigation schemes throuagh better control              q
of selection, design, and construction, and (b) through greater involvement of
local communities in these processes, resulting in improved operation and
maintenance performance down to the farm level.  Increasing numbers of PRIS
staff and developing their skills will bring about better identification,
design and construction of irrigation schemes.  This is estimated to achieve
savings of as much as 5-10% in program costs (between $19 million and S35
million) in the eight provinces, over the Repelita IV period.  Similarlv,
improvements in operation and maintenance could increase irrigated areas,
particularly in the dry season, by an estimated 5% (25,000 to 30,000 ha per
year) which will increase yearly rice production by 60,000 tc, 80,000 tons.
Increasing the PRIS staff and improving their skills for design work should
reduce the need for consultant inputs by at least $2.0 millicn per year by the
end of Repelita IV. The expected improvements in the ability of DAAD and
Diperta staff to speed up land development is likely to result in about 4,00()
ha coming into production each year about 12 months earlier than would other-
wise have been the case. Water management demonstrations will also help
farmers quickly increase production on the newly irrigated land.  As a result,
full crop production should be accelerated by about two years. In the eight
provinces, rice production is expected to increase by 200,000 tons as a result
of irrigation construction under the project, benefitting abolut 60,000 low
income farm families, many of Whom are recent transmigrants.
47.       The economic benefits of GOI's irrigation construction program are
well estabished from earlier Bank and USAID analysis of ongoing and completed
projects. Small-scale schemes to be constructed will be subject to individual
appraisals conducted by the Directcrate of PlanninLg and Programming in DGWRD
and reviewed from time to time by the Bank. Typical small-scale schemes
appraised by the Bank indicate that economic rates of return are likely to be
about 32%. The medium-scale schemes have all been appraised by the
Directorate of Planning and Programming in DGWRD and reviewed by the Bank,
with economic rates of return of about 16%.  Small- and medium-scale
construction costs constitute 90% of total project costs.
48.       Bank support for the project will assist in establishing better pro-
cedures and standards for preparing, appraising arnd supervising construction
of small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes through provincial irrigation



- 19 -
services, and will link their activities more closely with agricultural
development. Because of its extensive and close association with irrigation
sector institutions, the Bank has a unique role to play in supporting such
institutional change. At the same time, the Bank's resource transfers for
the project will enable GOI to maintain its provincial irrigation construction
program in spite of current economic difficulties.
Project Risks
49.       The major risks which may be encountered, and their likely impact,
are summarized below.
(a)  The potential for delays in land development, due to coordination
problems between irrigation construction and conversion of service
areas into rice fields, is expected to be minimized during the
planning stage of the irrigation schemes. Conservative assumptions
have been made for reaching full production (10 years after
construction starts), and even longer periods (a delay of two
vears), would not reduce economic rates of return to unacceptable
levels.
(b) Tnadequate operation and maintenance standards are a cause for
concern throughout the irrigation sector and are addressed under
the project by (i) increasing O&M staffing and training, and (ii)
involvinR farmers more closely in planning and design of their
-rrigation schemes. Poor O&M reduces the water delivery and
control effectiveness, thus reducing the irrigated area and rice
yields. The small-scale schemes have a high margin for such
risks. Fot the medium-scale schemes, output reductions of
up to 20%3 could be withstood without jeopardizing their viability.
(c)  Failure to continue to appoint or recruit the additional staff, or
delays in training, would result in reduced control over subproject
selection, design and construction, diminishing the projected cost
reductions and incremental benefits. The consequences of such
risks are small, however, because in this event, DGWRD would
continue to provide the functions, though less efficiently than the
PRIS.
Environmental Aspects
50.       Irrigation systems in Other Island locations face the threat of
continued forest clearing in catchment areas, leading to reduced water
deliveries in the dry season; flooding during peak rainfall, damage to
diversion structures, increased siltation; and reduced agricultural pro-
duction or increased maintenance costs. Reduction of such risks requires the
intervention by the GOI (authorized under existing legislation) which is built
into the project (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.  A special condition of effectiveness of the project is
that the contract for consultants' services required for train:Lng shall have
been approved by SEKNEG, the State Cabinet Secretariat required by
Presidential Decree to review and authorize all major contract awards. Other
special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 16, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                 - SOCIAL INICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
'5          /b  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCCME
I 96OL       1970    ESTIMATEI           ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RK)
T10AL                                  1919.3       1919.3       1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                           266.0         307.1        317.3
GNP PER CAPITA (0S$)                        90.0        150.0        530.0               1028.6                      2088.2
ENERGY CONSUHPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         129.0         143.0        266.0                792.8                     1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   94680.0    116201.0    149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)            14.6         17.1         20.6                 32.9                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2140
POPULATION DENSITY
ERR SQ. NM.                          49.3          60.5         76.2                260.7                       35.6
PER SQ. FM. AGRI. LAkND              355.9        379.5         461i.2             1696.5                        93.2
POPU7LATION AGE STRLvIERE (7)
0-14 YES                             40.7         44.r          39.e                 39.,                       40.1
:5-64 YRS                             56.2         53.4          57.1                 57.2                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                           3.1          2.2           3,1                  3.3                        4.1
POP'LANOHN GRO'ZTH RAT- .'7;
TOTAL                                  ".                         itS Z+               2.2                        2.3
'-AN_    3.J -,                                                   4.                   3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTN RATE (PER -HO'S)            4             450.-        34.6                 31..:                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            21.1          17.2         13.1                  9.e                         8.1
GROSS REPRODULCTION RATE                  2.8          2. 7          .2                  2.                          2.0
FAMrLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..       I8.-         3G51.r
USERS (x OF NARRIED WOMEN7               .1.         o 2          6.(                  6. e
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOT) PROD, PER CAPITA
'1969-'1=soO)                           93.0         102.r        122.r                125.1                      113.0
PER CAPITA S'.PPL; oP
CALORTES 57= OF RESOIREMENTS          8b.'         94.0         110.0                114.3                      111.3
PROTEINS 'GRAMS PER DAY)              38.1         42.0          49.0                 37                         67.9
OF WHICS ANIMAL. AND PULSE            6.r          6.0           7.0/c ,                                        34.1
CHILI (AGES i-4! DEATH RAT?             22.'          16.9         13.7                  7.4                         5.3
PEAL TR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH 'YEARS)            41.2         47.3         53.5                 60.2                        64.6
INFANT MORT. RATI  (PEK THOUSI         S49.P        120.?         105.0                 68.1                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE YATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                                3.0         23.C                 37.1                       64.8
URBAN                                    ..        10.0          41.0                 54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                    '           S.C         18.0                26.4                        44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
x OF POPPULATION)
TOTAL                                    . .        15.0         23.0                 41.4                       54.6
URBAN                                               19.0        21.1                 47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                              14.0          24,.                 33.4                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46790.0      26510.0      11530.0               7771.9                      1776.0
PoP. PER NURSING PERSON               4510.0/f    7680.0         2300.C               2462.6                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1360.0       1650.C        161C.0/c            1047.7                       477.0
URBAN                                250.0            ..        700.o7F             651.:                       667.5
RURAL                                                         316G.o,7             2l591.0                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEr                ..           ..         22.4/e               27.0                       27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGC SOZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.4          4.8
URBAN                                  4.9           5.3
RURAL                                  4 . 3        4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                               1.5
URBAN                                    . .        1.6
RURAL                                               1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN
RURAL
.--  - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - -             - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -



- 22 -                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOSI                         (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          '6  RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970'b  ESTIRATE-L          ASIA & PACIFIC          LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   IOTAIL                     71.0          77.0         95.0                101.2                       105.0
MALE                      86.0          83.1        104.0                106.0                       106.3
FEMALE                    58.0          71.C         9i.C                 97.5                       103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        6.0         15.0         28.C                 44.9                        40.0
MALE                      10.0          20.0         33.C                 50.0                        38.6
FEMALE                     3.0          10.0         22.0                 44.6                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              20.4         22.1          15.5                 18.5                       34.U
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               39.0          29.0         34.0                 32.7                        30.7
SECONDARY                             14.0          13.0         16.u                 23.4                        16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (i)                  39.0         56.6         62.O__               72.9                        79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               1.1          2.1                               9.7                        45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              7.2         21.9         42.4                113.7                       228.2
TV RECEIVERSJTHOUSAND POP                 0.1          0.8          9.b                 50.1                       138.3
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0           ..         17.7/d               54.0                        64.1
CINEiSA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          2.8           ..          0.8/c                3.4                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            34791.0      41090.0       53604.-
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.8          30.9         29.2                 33.6                        24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 75.0          66.0         55.0                 50.9                        31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT )                    8.0         10.0          15.1;                19.2                        23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.7          35.4         35.9                 38.6                        31.3
MALE                                   54.2         49.5         51.1                 50.7                        49.8
FEMALE                                20.0          21.6         20.8                 26.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3          1.2                  1.1                         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHdEST 5. OF AOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         23.5/d               22.2
HIGHEST 20  OF LiOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..         49.47W               48.0
LOWEST 204 OF iOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..          6.6/d                6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..         14.47W               15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..        136.O/_              194.5                       259.8
RURAL                                          ..               112.0/g              155.0                       184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAP'ITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        119.0/g              178.0                       519.8
RURAL                                    .,           ..         98.0/g              164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Y)
URBAN                                   ..            ..         28.0/g               24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..         51. I                41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
Nor APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populat.ion-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends an availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 aind 1981.
ic  1977; /d 1976; Ie 1975; /f 1962; jg 1978.
May 1983



- 23 -                                                                   ANNEX I
lEINIffTIONSl OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                Page            3     of        5     pages
descrb   aeders of sogtl-ude, indicate trnt,ad chor-trte e-i                 t  mjo  differooro   btoaoeocuoroeess..
Th. e e..ro.. grups Ior (1) the ouse c....ry group ofthsujc  caaead()arsrygroup sith  oe hut ghg ,rseeg   Iccoor nhao the cuancy p  rop of she
sob jor  cuty (erep  for "Oth Irc..se" lit Eooor"geu.hr  "Otd'P I                 d I Noos   arth Afrc it ud Middle tush" is rh-so   becaue-   P  -trugotscl-siuo
afftotlos)   In ro rePrrccegroupdafa ebauagaoe  aaoec                og tdaff""' easfreahtdaseor and uau  any  .ben   ...u..y.ofth .car ..o  na
grou   baadatafar  hat  ndictor, Otorttocnarae  ofcosoe te  amog rh  ledtestrs!dpand  00  ho aullalthe            ad  ataiudit  oatfohles,daurIn sct b
ercnd In roloclig onorafus at  ant indi-c..ro.oo..ther.  These. uorges are only use ful to cumpseing  rho na1-u one nea cadtur. al rl-e eaoo, ohe cu-try an
tefur-nce grou.Pa
AREA (obausaod oqOne.)                                                                                 pouaInprPylic-Pnp..a... dicao   ha nun.borcci                        omcf   a
Taot   -.Ta ca  tucu-  aroc ronylieig land area and ibloodase; 1960,                                    phscIn  quai fle  frau s se cadlor ihaul" at  nlaott p ine.I
i9il aol 1980 dat'a.                                                                               Popu1lailo  pe  Nurlag.  Peoson- Paplatlen  dlnidad hr uuobo    f n  practicn
agrlt-I-.al - Eeist-n  af a,,r-lrrltra   ooa lasd ce.pral.ll  or purnaeeonly                          oalo sd.les-lo  gradaaonuroe,   -sltan   uro    pactcl   cre   c
tarcrps  pos -rs, ero  end kiohnoFel adens or to  Ie. falloal 1960,                                  narso   aoIIals
191  and irt  dale.                                                                                PopuIlotlu  Per HospItal Bed -  tota, -ehar, aod rurl1 - Populalun   caal
urs,sd rural )  bdieidd by lhei,  -o paclti- nusbr uf huspitol lean
ClpPI   aPT  (I)     srpr  aIt   ttbne   r  ame    aro  plos*a"Ialef g9abbtc sodbiprtcaro g..P erral aodbapelal,:rd  osII cala
calc-ote  by  -00   --cacr srhud asuni  leank colas  11919-I best);                                     rablntIncto.    optaltaeetha                          -absosprorysa  e
1960, L970, atd 19811 dana.                                                                            by an louts our physIcIan.  Eshobtlihseots peoutdicg pelnclyollycuoda
c.are      a or   o tolledsd   tural1 hosyiloao,,bsehe,  laclu-Ide health and
EIRGY CIONSUMPTION PER CAPrbo - alhual  -pa      -o onupeln.oaf nosroladlcal ceeer  ntP.oaon psafe    y                                                             Ia_rylcan lbc y a sdllu
ytn"yIoey Ido   sd     .igt.,  -ecl-a, naurl gas atd hydra-, osolea                   sl srot..              ure    dldofe, rt.l )  hih offte  b.-patient acc-sdultoo sod
and geothoca- lccrrIyln   Icrs   ccoeqalecpesla;                                                        pru-ide    Iibote  ruogo         i.se al friltlinOo.  PoF sa Iols  pueps-
19h60, 1970, atd 1980 dora.                                                                            urba  bosltl  t.oludo AdIOs pli-Iplyulgo..tr-1 bo-pillls, and rurl
hoylt.s, .c..o ru al  opItals and sodi-a  ood ..l.rtlcy cnos
POPULdTINN  MDl dco- STdTISTIOS                                                                           ipoclllod h.opatla see Inluded Illy undor tonal.
TtlPayclattan, ell-Neon (rhossods) - At of July f; 1960, 1910, sod 1981                           Aduuesi2as  per no-ital ted - Totallnuber of adols-ni-            oo  disch-ares
dana.                                                                       frau booplealo ~~~f;_dtrlded by rho  -uolo  of buds
cabs, PopulatIon. .pecron  c  nnu   -  tuooc  ubnn  total popalatlar;
differet defloslctmMof urban   ar ,a. u  aff -n iliartloy of dataHOltINh
-8       1960, 1970, and 1981 dota.AnrgNlra  Olseol I1 netn   e   oshll    oa,uho   n  rotal
ISsa  b    rjccao-A household roolcsougruorIdlulubohaeIaugqrsr
PuolcucI  yeo  Ol  - formIc populanlun peoeton.             e  bsssd 00 1981                     sed rho i al  neai   s   A boador or lodger say cc su  not ho lcfdodin
rucul popula1tIon by age ad su  aod chI   oIltyadfr  lIyfIbuool   o   lrsnctprae
lenelo outunlng  lila  ropuctuor p at tlrob  larnaaiogly b  cd ultry1'I 5 pe         o  pe-oohpc  oo fat   tallt     rao   cdrual      acupodp-onnloa
nayta-   ocu  locl,an .p sale. 111 bi,ochuI c  soaa litho   at. 11y. Na                            dso l'ngo, WRrooocLael.-le 4ba             rclude eo-pielsan....c..ocoi      a
yoe-.  The Pacunnoort far fordil ity race atsn bone latesolal                                         culdprs
usule   ecln   In fercilloy accod ing no iloc.s. boo1  and psst lastly                   Acceos ta 81-ec ttrlly Iprorn   ollc                  oa,ubn   r   sa
p Ianoco    gofuonu_c        ..Pooh .ac . .. bn. sfood one of c.Ocoa nOs                         Ianoftd   ollg    oc;lcnclpI   rn   quctroa
_as -toa -nn   oh ecrtl  y and 1oct11Icly troods ho  pcojorloo Pu.p..ot.                           of  -cta1, u-ha, sod rural  dull isors -ec-in-Iy.
Staollo..ry plyslunluc - In a snJf..o.rypuutlntheet Ia o   gra-th
sl.acenb   bIrc  rare co oqool to the death rotr, tod also rho age                            EDUATIaON
'a                            .. TIsI  ahlnd otly uffet 1oct1 Iit  rates        adjasnd Elo 11ll.ont Ratios
d-tlino  no rhoe rlareonninnl  fuliln              ropeeud   u   rat,  hloe                        prmcyshol-roo ,sl  and fe-ulo-rs   oal a    n  fesulo
each gnena ino o  ono .  ...a.o -col   uary.  Th   ftfonary                                    ouoioto   l   gos 00 the yritoay1..po  00  porooage  of r.operIce
....n.os.t. ooot. aue o        r tehsa uf the projaocodcthata-tr-                                pnincy sholaepeyulati-no   ooai -                ruoocodrtaedht
attcs  f no Ioyrlitlc  in  toe peso 20001,  nd tIhe cae  uf dcllieo of                         roars hub    djoslod far ditforsoc  longobs af pelsoryoducoc Ion; fun
Yoar safl.ianay cor1loclu  is ro...hod - The.ea  abeotnh laua                                           lec  tone  Wp..t are bolou orIahono the ofiolial snhal age.
pouanu ,sc    illb  -ooahod.                                                               Stnoodurn school - tnl.1, sale  and tesale --Cosoda   b..s  secuoday
toco  unto;1910, 1910, end 1980 dab..                                                                 Wpuils  sa    of 12 no 17 yours of ago.coer -Ipondnoe   r o l ar
Per              I..ho .og ....na  land -cnaedtab.e ton agitouttors  lard                              geosra lp  -oludord.
ot;16,1970 and INtO dla,.                                                                 uualoti ...eI tl...  or 1. or..    o  soonat)        I harnla ...    lrt on
Popolauttn Agao Icucud I -oecuol  Ih- Cldren (1-14 pouro) , -orhui-go C.9  IN-                         locue  ohlct ld          uotll,orohoc pro. g... obib opeatae inde perh-
h4 Poac..l , aod rocir    Isyorsud ano) an perron-ges  t od-yea                                     eIcyor as  da tonr  of secoldanyiolulns
pulacino    hh  f70  old 1981 do5.ralturo   aI     ar.uy  an  s....da.y-Ttalatudoot  ocrl t1ea ir
Poc ia.o  toCh Rac  I ecoc  -                   ..la  -gaoo  gro-h cot   f coarl aid-               brsryn eclaylnladoAdh  ..s.r  of leco                               Innacr
You  ypcllo ho  1950-nd, 1960-10, ou  170RI                                                          copo   -o eelo.
poplolontrso  Oale (pencon) - urban - dolua  geochnao  of srboMult irtteal-y crate (conceI) - Ltlcroruuto ad s1                                        h tobb  to rash  od o-ire)a
pupaloso .s.fo   1 C-O   19th-Rh, and  970-.i.                                                   platprpnnge at local  dguln popuurInn agog lb pears andone
frd   ao   ae(cot rho..suad) -anocul IIe bilees per thasuod ohfId
rely  popuarIon.; 1960, 1970,an  1901 duOs.                                                     foNolyKTlOI
Trade lach hae  9con  bostan) -  onu  daunts yen, chousaed at iod-ya                             asneeOr                 thou2~nod ynlno)-Pa.soge  can  .oprise macor
popolotr; 19t, 1971,and 191dn.cI                                                                      osn   los  than oight pyn....a- nludesshlno                 ote   n
Gross RoonoduotllacR ar-horcagI ouut  at d-ughtecsoosoill hoe.  in                                     struep _ ttlos
foentilily        ...ousal ly foo-pear  -neuge   -nd-g io i96a, 1970, so.bod  conIooeu   publIcprcosnofoplt 101h1.a
198f                                                                                                  lesd  aonr   ilnc--oelusad ln youssun.g.ru  a  of radio
Coolly yluc.ong-du                -1o eou  (ebousuods) -   -uua  nooher of acetatsts ls itoefhoo; duta for reco-  yeats say 001,h rospara..    s ince onto
or bltnhcall d-ntres  ndec ou  Icsn  n-i ne1 foolly pl..olog                                         cos..rtes abollsbd licens.ing.
Pushly Pl-nclrg-hsrro, (pno of noerld ...se) -fFh .....t.g of  .or...d                                  goner.atIpublir pot eheusood popO1-cInn; encldgec   nlosd   lna
...os    a  ..rho be-tooogae(11    or-  uho us ...        n-c...h   td-cl-o  Iu                      tonune -nd In y--r uhn  eonn- lo   ohfT ros ao   noho
allou--eda,r   Oruap   grou..                                                                      N-aopolrczrlnyalootoduulhnn-noohoa...ag
lndet of rood Pro~d-roto  ye   apylco IItRq9:-7(1-00     Icd- tof Per capIta                           ydlrlo   d..nlrd prunar I ytlu  orrnc done ge-al, onu. _             I  coosdrro
unclrno7a   f dl lar  c                ooies   Prdut-o eontdos seed atod                              to he "d aily  if IcP.e.e  II..ous  fou...          saee
tcsco  Inotood olsuar          ,hlb ore odttlo  and conain ounlen.ts  eg                        tllctoco itold  a-log ohr year, iInludiog odi-i-oos rdclo-i.totnoo                   aed
cottac and t05 ore ec1odod) . g gegragac  P,oaclo  of each coontry Is                                _oboi    nra
boed on _oc ana   --,ao, prduce  price soights; 1961-65, 1911, and 1981
dura.                                                                                            LAghR POOCh
nor ructra surpy 0e colonIst Iytecuut of r-Rnmetot  -  uptdeo                            Tota  baon o-   r .I.ploooadube    - rnordlou-e-y am lo   esn,ocul0am
day.  goullatlo ou.pylio  -oprlse d.oetOl             ..durle L" I tpc   ls                          pp  luahiO  of o    agos. lehfulottous  In curious o-oocl   ac
oaper, scd coogot iloato.  Nor suppII es  undeaImal fed,  ees                                          op  acoll; 190, 197 sod  9198  dues.
qualtlltes  -od no hood p--osiog, ond bones in ddittlibf InEnas  Reret  - P-ensolo blho  foece 00 pen--lge at rocu1 labor force.
aaucsnc   uees  ncd Op PA1 haso.d.so physiIogiIca  noods fo .-Ina                                    Agraclloruce   Itpoceo) -  bab   forc  in furiong, forestry, hunt lg  ndd
acflyad houloh  onI Iono        -entnn Inlcesperaruce, body  eogttilhlcga  7neoa    ftoru1l toh- fame ; 1960, 1970 and 1911 dta.
ag: ad,l      dse lotn ofpplrln   n  o sn                      PIItpecen  fortsore                   Idustry I nenoec) -Ibtnbon1  slniog,conrtIn,sofccrg
orhouehld   oo  I  01t,17R ar   90dt,ad  IteocitIty, c.ano   dg  Ot0  yle.rotgo of itotal labo orc                                                                                9h
Po, capilcu supply ofport  (rn  POP day)      prtIncnent of Pee optta                                     1970 and 1981 Oats.
otnoupply of roodJpea day,   eelopo f food Is defined 00aho b-                                     Ioat'llllatnht  lponrene) - tota, Iato, aod do..alc.- pariclon  or
Reoqooroe..   ncr aIcoocierls   stblpIshed  hr USDA prooide for alils.e                              soi"tlnycae  aceroputod.o nunt,  ub,an sle                    tahoe.f,%,I:,  fore a
eoactof67 grams oR  -ala  peatro con day ead 20 grant of aemland                             Pecot.lages. of total,  .uead   euopouaIn  fala e   e1cioy
yrtao proecto, of abort 10 grato shoald be aolsol Pyooon   Thqo 187  197, and 1980  oa   Tho-  are based on  ILce  Iarelcaparluae
tudncare boor than_rhot  of lbtgeans of lnot   pot_elo an.d t. g.s.s                           -oflectogaoss  tutreo   h  Payularoo, and I.og  nine  mod.`e
of orleal p_tculn  so   a lerg   runIt  sord,1 proIPosed by PO  l           O to he                  looemrtaeO                 ainlsnns
Thond  -uId Food Scaree; 1961-65, 1900 aed 1980          .. dan.                                    oolsl  leprodo y Ratio - tR."c of  opuaoloo ondee I) end h5 and noo  t
P"  uot "'it' tPlo Iuc   IronE oniua  and  -us   -cufte           srl  of food                         the tot.1 lsbsc force.
deemed Inns otailu an21d poises In gras per duy; 19616tN, 1'900 sod 19177
Childlos 1-4) leas  Rue ye  chos-d) - alnual deants yt nhousad iopreoaoo   -Prl-te lnos..e (both to cah sod hiog) -                                                     Ihcend hy rIches.
age aup1-4 yoalo, torhldoninthIs ago genup; tOrsd-fenscplg                                           pe ien ,rihoon 21 pe-crrr, psonoso 20 cre-nt, aod pooes  40  ecn  of
coanfrino guru denlood  fron Itfo  latins; 1~~~960   97h cod 1981 doto.                  househods.
-tr e. Th       .d-id0f..  ifelabaIIh.Thbr
lIfe toeroacyao nrob (ears) - doorac  ube  of Pe---  ef lIfe  pesulelog                    thlolon    asatsae noeyapprooae  eou_                           or p-norylteu   and
abit;16,1970 sad 1981 data,                                                                 shold to interpretd  i0th considehlec1autIn
Infant Ocerallny tc   (poP thousand) -a s   etso  inf.ots under one                                  Etitmatd Adosoluto PonercyLIncoe..b%a,   (Uto pc cud)               bau ana rura  -
yaar oh agn pe, rhoc..a.d lOop bilrr;196,1970 end 19ff data.                                         dbouepnryloo   eeesteelcs    ot610sItallo
Acros  oh Nafe lotte  (porcat of  poultIn) -ttl, utan   edres                                          nflt lnll   dqut2ia   ls  sntllol-od   ouceet  I   o
suher of pecplo  ltotal. unhan, and coal)elt  roasuble access no safe                                sff.ld.ble.
outee  su_pply (inclou   creat.. edsufr  esterso uItreand hIslinseed Relotlo- Pon.r.  heoet                                                ao   00   e  capto l-uha  and  -utl
uncoocosiotatodae  sorb ul chat from  peu,,toed  orototes  spRus...Ioo  rttIoponery Incm   eolI   n-sIdo   -anpgo.p fo "Piha"
soooeacyo-llsl an perenages~.  of lheeo        IenlopPu-WI on.  t  soP0000   oo odtersly    Uchue 1o-1 Is doro-                                                     f     tshepu..
tron    hous  noy  o ofuldened   .W..   as .o.g.holedpolotnable   os   of t20 t              tmttsoted  Popultion  lelo- abslue oh-        e I ncofolni Lonsll(ocob    )-un
house.  Innueols  laidrasns..d   oo ug     l t imply that thehameslf o pfsatrusl   Percnt o  pbopultIo  (urban  landrot  oooo's lt
the. doy usdfitclonghthetha y'..-if.e no elt.
her eto t  lofreta hIsposld ,I peco   of, popoi,tldo         t            Felbsof, und
dstal as: p-contagos ofth Innspcln  ptpltoo                       t.scoto dsosa
ea  louothe  -11-ot d- and dispuso, mont or othoot tramet.o-rool  sod hacio1 Oats DIoisloc
hsaaonaooouunrh-..usne--alrebysyartr   or the  so of pit                                                                              t-oonsft foul yas sod Pnoj-rll... DInPacnnn
prioe- acd tlshloc  Mnalllon.Sy 1983



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population          152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%) /a
Amount
(million US$ at                                                                             Estimated
current prices)    -                            Actual                                      Projected
Indicator                              1981            1975    1976    1977   1978  1979        1980    1981    1982   1983   1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b           85,486            5.0     6.9     8.9      7.7     6.3     9.9     7.9   -0.1      1.4     5.1     7.1
Agriculture                      21,587             0.0    4.7      1.3     5.2     3.9     5.2      4.9    2.1      2.6     3.1     3.1
Industry                         34,668             5.6    11.1   14.2    8.7       7.1   12.5      8.5   -1.9       1.0    9.4    11.4
Services                         29,231            10.1    5.9    12.5      9.2     7.7    11.8    9.8       5.5     1.0    2.0      5.0
Consumption                         66,308            6.4     7.9     5.6    8.9    13.6   13.1    15.8        3.9    0.4   -0.1       4.5
Gross investment                    18,280           14.6    6.0    16.0   15.0        4.4   17.7    11.1    13.0   -8.1       5.0     6.0
Exports of GNFS                     23,309           -2.4   17.0    9.5        1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -10.4   -1.2    12.8    11.1
Imports of GNFS                     22,411           11.7    16.8     4.4    12.7   22.5    16.9   27.1    10.4  -12.0   -4.2          2.0
Gross national savings              17,016          -16.3    14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -19.0            5.4   28.4    15.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                             166      190    214      238     315    407      448     484     581     668     741
Exchange rate                                         415    415      415    442       623    627      632     661     970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)
(at current prices)                                    Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   198')   1985   1990           1960-70     1970-75      1975-80      1980-85      1985-90
Gross domestic product         100     100     100      100     100     100         3.9           8.4          7.4          4.2          5.1
Agriculture                   54      47      32      25      25       23         2.7           4.1          3.3          3.2         4.0
Industry                      14      18      34      43      41      41          5.2          12.0          9.8         4.2          5.1
Services                      32      35      35      32      34      36          4.8           9.7          9.5         4.6          6.0
Consumption                   91      89      79      71      73      74          4.1           8.4          9.2         4.7          5.4
Gross investment               8      14      20      21      22       23         4.8          18.3         12.2         5.1          6.0
Exports of GNFS               13      13      23      31      27       25         3.6           9.2          2.9        -1.1          3.9
Imports of GNFS              -13    -16      -22    -22    -22    -22             3.2          22.1         14.0         3.8          5.3
Gross national savings         8       9      17      26      23      23          6.1          23.1         14.2         2.6          4.5
As x of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980            1982
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                       11.7         10.1              17.4            22.5            23.2
Current expenditures                                                  14.0           8.4               9.9            12.8            11.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                            -2.3          +1.6              +7.5            +9.7           +11.4
Capital expenditure                                                   n.a.           5.0              11.3            13.0            14.5
Foreign financing                                                     0.2             3.5              3.7             3.3             3.1
1960-70          1970-75              1975-80          1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                  4.5              7.6                  7.1               4.2              5.2
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                       2.4              5.1                  4.7               1.8              3.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                   2.2             11.2                 11.0               5.6              5.2
ICOR                                                        2.2              2.2                  3.3               5.4              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                       0.30             0.48                 0.28              0.15             0.3
Import elasticity                                           1.2              2.8                  0.84             0.11              1.03
/a  At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981, and 1981 prices for 1982-1985.
lb At market prices.
|c  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                             East Asia and Pacific Programs
Octobetr 5, 1983



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                   Page S of 5 pages
Population      *  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                      Estimated Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981    1982        1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   18,510   22,885   22,994    19,524   17,540    20,907   25,437   47,398
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   15,631   13,370            15,638   19,425   33,931
(b)  Nonoil                           3,507    3,979    6,171       5,587    4,170    3,893    4,170         5,269    6,012    13,467
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,096  -22,773  -20,020   -20,983  -23,164  -40,345
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -5,468   -4,357    -4,135   -4,398   -6,899
(b)  Nonotl imports                 -7,241    -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,022  -14,893  -13,698   -15,069  -17,110  -31,646
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536       -586   -1,237   -1,702   -2,667   -2,411   -1,965    -1,779   -1,656   -1,800
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    5,305    5,296         898   -3,249   -2,480          -76    2,273    6,913
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -3,106   -3,165   -3,267   -3,566   -3,898    -4,625   -5,599   -9,380
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -485       -635     -724      -820   -1,464   -1,494    -1,803   -2,098   -3,031
(b)  Other (net)                       -424     -530   -2,471   -2,441   -2,447   -2,102   -2,404    -2,822   -3,501   -6,349
5.  Capital grants                           66        46         52       76        67        100      100         100      100        100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109      2,198    2,131   -2,302   -6,715   -6,278    -4,601   -3,227   -2,367
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       139       276       350        350       400        700
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956     1,638     1,939    2,864    3,203    4,383    5,411          5,592    5,733    6,973
(b)  Amortization                      -825      -977   -1,335       -987   -1,001   -1,146   -1,541       -1,943   -2,297   -4,866
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131        660       604    1,877    2,202       3,237    3,870       3,648    3,436    2,107
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       888   -1,329   -1,248        -539       -78    2,675         480    1,174        615
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736         988    3,280       -617         123   -1,783   -1,055
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354         3,074     3,724      3,636    5,485    10,115
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4        4.3       5.4       6.5       4.4       2.1       2.9        2.6       3.5       3.5
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                  -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154    7,674    7,824           7,236    8,685    13,315
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.1       9.6       7.8       4.7       6.2        5.2       5.5       4.6
EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205      1,865    2,536    2,729
Concessional Loans                         442       484       433       659       792
Bilateral                                381       448       399       611       718
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        69
Other                                     12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1.514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,937
Official export credits                  218       271        61        44       165
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       314
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089     1,270     1,126     1,449     1,372
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,234   14,882   15,737
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114
Private  - source                    4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,100       1,772     1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819       973
Payments as x exports /e                11.6      18.2      11.3       7.7       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                      6.3       7.6       6.6       8.2       8.6
Official - source                        5.6       4.6       5.0       5.5       7.9
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.3       9.2
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.8      18.6      18.6      15.2
Official - source                       23.8      30.1      24.8      24.4      20.8
Private  - source                        9.1       8.7      11.0       9.9      10.6
As 1 of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                    40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                   69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  5.7
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/c  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                     East Asia and Pacific Programs
/e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                           October 5, 1983



ANNEX II
- 26 -                       Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                    Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed  760.5    544.1              -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                      -       16.0        0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                                65.0        -         5.5
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Napping              13.0        -         1.6
1237  1976   Fourth Education                                37.0        -         2.9
1250  1976   Second Shipping                                 54.0        -         0.5
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                              33.0        -         5.9
1336  1977   Second Urban Development                        52.5        -         4.,5
1337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                              32.0        -         4.8
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                    116.0        -        25.7
1373  1977   Nutrition Development                           13.0        -         0.3
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education                19.0        -         4.7
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                               63.0        -        27.2
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                                35.0        -         4.2
1472  1977   Second Population                               24.5        -         6.6
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education,                           15.0        -         4.0
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I               65.0        -        22.5
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                   94.0        -        27.2
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                      -       40.0        7.6
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                               140.0        -       101.1
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                             31.0        -        11.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                      -       30.0        2.5
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II                65.0        -        45.4
869  1979   Polytechnic                                       -       49.0       22.2
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                              77.0        -        42.1.
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                         54.0        -        19.6
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        -       10.0        8.2
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control               50.0        -        27.0
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                    42.0        -        11.0
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                  123.2        -        70.1
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                  50.0        -         7.2
919  1979   Transmigration II                                 -       67.0       15.1
1707  1979   Transmigration II                               90.0        -        87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                   175.0        -        60.1
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                             36.0        -        20.2
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in. a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                      Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                     -      12.0        8.1
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III              99.0       -        59.3
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                   -      45.0       31.6
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                             -      45.0       25.2
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II                -      42.0       34.9
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                         116.0       -        78.4
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV               42.0       -        34.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                 35.0       -        35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                   -      30.0       21.7
1869  1980   Third Population                               35.0       -        29.5
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                   253.0       -       166.1
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                46.0       -        37.3
1904  1981   University Development                         45.0       -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                   250.0       -       156.3
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                              22.0       -        16.4
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                       43.0       -        35.1
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V             161.0       -       144.2
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development           106.0       -        18.7
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                       85.0       -        85.0
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                                170.0       -       146.9
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                   15.0       -        14.8
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                    185.0        -      144.8
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                       100.0       -        84.5
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                        80.0       -        79.7
2102  1982   Second Textbook                                25.0       -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.0       -        34.7
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                         70.0       -        64.2
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution               66.0       -        63.0
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI                 68.1       -        66.8
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                   25.0       -        24.6
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                       5.5       -         4.9
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                 300.0       -       293.8
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII             154.6       -       152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                              27.0       -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                  22.4       -        22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                            101.0       -        99.5
2258  1983   Public Works Yanpower Development              30.0       -        29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                       30.6       -        30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                     208.9       -       208.9
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                              63.5       -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                            107.4       -       107.1



ANNEX I I
-28 -                       Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power /a                            279.0        -       279.0
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training /a                   63.3        -       63.3
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smal:Lholder Sugar /A          79.2        -       79.2
Total Bank loans and I-DA credits           6,076.15   930.10
Of which has been repaid                     -241.83    -9.70
Total now outstanding                       5,834.32   920.40
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -27.21         -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b            5,833.29   920.40
Total undisbursed                           3,797.50   177.50  3,975.00
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -        1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -         0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0       0.3       4.3
Total gross commitments                       118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             82.6      5.7       88.3
Total held by IFC                               36.2     12.3       48.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   -           -          -



-  30                           ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND PROVItNCIAL IRRICATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  Nine months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  GOI's Directorate General
of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD) with assistance of
Bank staff
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                     October 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                               February 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations: November 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         April 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Condition
The GOI shall ensure that: (a) the small- and medi.um-scale schemes
under the project are selected, designed and constructed to agreed speci-
fications (para. 35); and (b) the small- and medium-scale schemes under the
project are at all times adequately staffed with qualified and competent
personnel to ensure the timely implementation and operation and maintenance
of the project (para. 35).



[3RD 17295R
IO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0                                                            OR 0N 5°D '0                                                                                                                                    INONSI                                  10N       000065  0083CTE   1E
oA ffi _        THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDONESIA
>b      t                                                                                                                  T                                                      2                             SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT E
0.>o                                     K"'0                                                                                                                            -           _,, PH  LIPPINES                                                           I                       SDOOOOD F300IOOOIO   000N
BRUNEI          DoE                        /                                    / EOTON PROODOOS T                                                                              ON      ONO           0
/ MALAYS A                                                             \                                                  . n                     - L                                                                                                   -.- DROOl Clt        DOUOOOIDS
)I.                ,.                                                                             lMALAYSIA                 1                                                                                    /
9C189GW         t a A            w 9X , _-7SINGAPORF                         0,              J'Dw  Eflt  /b01000                                                                                      /                                       OILOMET9R6 20                   000                                               00
EiD OSlOh        ;              0 'i c                                                                              -i                                                                                           / _  IS,OE0/,.       HAL/ANEPA                 DOO3boSSbH                                                 EO - -
00     fw  NOON 50 tV,~ AWCb @t--                                                                                                          >01                                             '5'      ''"      
f b                                                      g   A, vJ~~~~~~~~~--    A  N  T A E         9Lnd             .                                                                           |        E19                                    , 
,         , ml G'                                                                                                                                                                                                             I         10..    ,,
; ', 00110,NolOO,NlrwSI,                                                                  D             w              ,  e   N  /  N    .tV4Btt,, 9 W.o,0N                                                        I           --
zXt<Tt w   fr Rw/ wotw t wwt I          wDJDsod 3 wmp w N          f                               5~~~~~~~~~ U V A, W  >5 S 
t ;t ' G-wg N snla; Maio , an oKender \ ~~~~~~~~~~CERAM \
-    .k So  o-lp 0, O.  t-00E0.ODO Im                                                                11/         EOOoOO              019    000  ENED0E -wu.   ..  ;,                                     
Os.0>   20000 R:?APo.i    wSO  l    V    sI                                                                      S                                                                                                       <\i  
PROJECD PROVINCES:                                   321  3S, -           ITO ,E0.30E0E
-1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~204 D                OO.N5E                                                                w              9o00h.N        ow           5   W9No,ojmo                                                       MORr--p  .N /                                            N   5yr5001Fo         h  b5!H   RdFn nia
30,000000>   C     1                                           1 00000 IE                                             0,0AI0   NED 4, F1O3
0111        A-                                                                                                           TIMO
0.IEOO   0,1,.  0   0OO0OOE0O0~,E,03000010,ODIO,010,OOIONOOO



