Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20597
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36350; SCL-3635A; SCPM-3635S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR A
TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 21, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 5, 1999)
Currency Unit = Hungarian Forint
= US$
US$ I = 245.72 HUF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEH  - Tax and Financial Controls Office
CEM  - Country Economic Memorandum
CIT - Corporate Income Tax
EDI - Electronic Data Interchange
FSMP - Financial System Modernization Project
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IDA  - International Development Association
IT - Information Technology
LTU  - Large Taxpayers Unit
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
NBH  - National Bank of Hungary
PAHIP - Pension Administration and Health Insurance Project
PFMP - Public Finance Modernization Project
PIT - Personal Income Tax
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
PSAL - Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SAR  - Staff Appraisal Report
SOE  - Statement of Expenditures
SOE  - State Owned Enterprises
TAMP  - Hungarian Tax Administration Modernization Project
VAT  - Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep K. Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carlos D.C. Ferreira



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                             I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                       9
6. Sustainability                                                                          I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           13
8. l_essons Learned                                                                        17
9. Partner Comments                                                                        18
10. Additional Information                                                                 19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008496                                        Project Name: Hungary: Tax Administration
Modernization Project
Team Leader: Carlos D. C. Ferreira                         TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Tyie: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 14. 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Hungary: Tax Administration Modernization Project L/C/TFNumber: CPL-36350;
SCL-3635A;
SCPM-3635S
Country/Department: HUNGARY                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/06/1992                               Effective: 01/12/94            01/12/94
Appraisal:  12/07/1992                                 MTR:
Approval:  07/08/1993                               Closing: 06/30/97             06/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY (NBH)/TAX ADMINISTRATION AGENCY
(APEH)
Other Partners: International Monetary Fund (IMF) and EU-PHARE
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                            Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                              Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Pradeep K. Mitra                           Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:   Jaime L. Vazquez-Caro                      Shamsher G. Singh
ICR Primary Author:   Carlos D. C. Ferreira; Jaime L.
Vazquez-Caro; William V.
Mayville
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactoiy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly lJnsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance. S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Hungary's recession at the early stages of the transition to a market economy resulted in a 20% drop in
GDP. The country's public finances had deteriorated sharply during the early years of the transition from a
surplus of 0.5% of GDP in 1990 to a deficit of 8.4% of GDP in 1994. The growing fiscal imbalance
threatened similar imbalances in the extemal accounts. The Government reacted with the implementation
of a fiscal adjustment program centered on a reduction of fiscal expenditures to match the decline in
revenues. It also introduced a new means of taxation, including a value added tax (VAT), as part of its
fiscal stabilization effort.
The development objective of the Bank's Tax Administration Modemization Project (TAMP) aimed to
support the Government's capacity to collect taxes from all economic actors and to promote private sector
development. The underlying assumption was that improvements in fiscal management achieved through
better tax administration would make possible overall fiscal improvement.
The project's explicit objective was to strengthen tax administration in line with an on-going tax reform so
as to maximize tax revenues in a sustainable way.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components:
1. Institutional development: financing short-term consultants to provide technical assistance in tax
administration, a long-term expert financed by the IMF, and other IMF assistance when needed;
2. Inforrmation technology prorm development, piloting, and implementation, including: (i) technical
assistance to guide the development of tax applications software to operate on new computer systems;
(ii) mainframe computers for APEH's headquarters and Budapest branch office, minicomputers for
county offices, with associated peripheral equipment; (iii) software development tools; and (iv)
administrative software packages; and
3. Training in development and use of applications systems. IT suppliers provided training in the use
of hardware and software tools they delivered. Non-IT training, including management training and
training in tax administration techniques was supplied by EU-PHARE under a separate grant.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. At times the Two-year Tactical Plan was viewed as a separate
component; however, it was simply an extension of component 2. It was introduced in 1995, after the
withdrawal of IMF from the project and the appointment of a new president of APEH. This also coincided
with the appointment of a new Project Manager and new Project Coordinator. The plan specified a modem
IT infrastructure and how it would be put in place between October 1996 and December 1998 to support
the development objective of the Project. It was based of the IT strategy prepared during the first phase of
the project. The plan estimated resources for seven major IT projects within the framework of a
medium-term integrated information system.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was designed to address serious institutional and technical issues faced by the Hungarian tax
administration, which required remediation without delays to prevent the collapse of the country's economy.
The agency, created in 1987, had formulated a strategy for institutional improvements and strengthening
with the objective of introducing a tax system based on voluntary compliance. As part of project
preparation, and as a conditionality for project effectiveness, implementation begun with restructuring of
APEH along functional lines; shedding non-tax related responsibilities; strengthening collection and audit
functions; and developing improved procedures for filing returns and making payments through the banking
system.
Project Design
Project design had three objectives: (a) prevent the collapse of the fledgling Hungarian tax administration
because of the exponential increase in taxpayer returns after the personal income tax (PIT) and value added
tax (VAT) were introduced with low filing thresholds not adjusted for inflation; (b) the adoption of modem
tax administration processes and procedures to enable an operation based on voluntary taxpayer
compliance; and (c) the implementation of modem tax processing computer systems, designed for a market
economy, based on individual taxpayer accounts, able to provide taxpayers and the government with up to
date information on taxpayer liabilities, and to monitor taxpayer compliance with the tax laws. The design
was based primarily on the IMF's report, "Hungary: Tax Administration Reform," prepared by Milka
Casanegra de Jantscher, Carlos Silvani, John Crotty, Peter Driscoll, and Robin Goddard. The report
presents a comprehensive assessment of the Hungarian tax environment of December 1, 1992, during the
initial stages of Hungary's economic transition. The IMF subsequently suggested that the Bank provide
financing and implementation assistance to address the growing need for a comprehensive organizational
and IT intervention--which was the Government's priority as well. In the design stage, the IMF focused
primarily on the review of the organizational structure and institutional instruments for tax collection and
the development of business processes for tax administration. The Bank focused primarily on IT hardware
and applications development, and on related training.
The time pressure to design and start implementation of the project forced the project development team
into accepting a number of compromises in the interest of avoiding a total collapse of the Hungarian tax
system reform. Some of these plagued the project throughout implementation:
In contrast to several other Bank-funded tax administration projects, the Hungarian TAMP called
for a substantial up-front investment in computer equipment, prior to the completion of the Strategic
Business Plan and corresponding IT Strategy. This was necessary to alleviate existing tax processing
bottlenecks and an increasing backlog; however, it made it difficult for the project to introduce changes
at a later stage geared to a more modern automation environment.
Because of the strong initial support by APEH's president, the project severely underestimated
resistance to change, particularly in the technology area. As often is the case with projects promoting
substantial computer systems change, the project design led to an inherent conflict between the
introduction of the modern systems and the inertia of the existing functioning but obsolete IT
environment. In this project, change was made even more complicated because the initial investment
brought new life to the obsolete computer environment.
There was insufficient conditionality to promote efficient project management and management of
- 3 -



the in-house application system development activities. While in house development may improve the
prospects for sustainability and engenders a sense of ownership for the success of the project within the
organization, it restricts the technical and technological evolution to the capacity of those driving the
information system. Project design took for granted that existing staff would work on the modem
system while contractors would be caretakers for the obsolete systems. Instead the opposite occurred,
reducing the quality of the new systems and the probability they would be readily accepted.
Finally, the project design called for a business strategy and a complementary IT strategy to be
developed during the first stage of implementation. This is normally done prior to appraisal. For
proper implementation, the fully developed IT strategy actually would have required triple the amount
of time originally scheduled for the project and twice the amount of financial resources available. In
the end, the implementing agency and the Bank had to demonstrate flexibility and accept a subset of the
IT strategy half way through project implementation, which included only the highest priority systems.
This subset is referred to as the "Two-Year Tactical Plan."
Quality of Design
The project's first aim was to respond to an immediate data processing emergency brought about by the
establishment of filing obligations affecting the majority of Hungarian adult citizens. A design excessively
focused on the short-run would have proven inadequate to meet the ultimate needs of the Hungarian tax
administration, hence the need for the mid-term correction and adoption of the Two-Year Tactical Plan.
The project did provide a clearly defned initial hardware procurement phase covering about 40% of the
Bank financing, and an appropriate set of generic objectives. The implementation plan for the remaining
60% was left to be defined during project implementation. Detailed preparation of the remaining 60% of
financing would have taken over a year--an unacceptable option given the emergency nature of the
operation. The project design, therefore, had a detailed first phase and a built-in requirement for the
development of an implementation program for the second phase (at mid term), which was to reflect the
experience of the initial phase.
After the development of the IT strategy during the first phase of the project, the original project timetable
and financial resources proved overly optimistic for development and deployment of the substantial number
of information processing infrastructure and tax administration application software. The initial concept of
freezing all development in the existing environment (operating system and hardware platform) and
immediately switching to a new and unfamiliar one was unrealistic because of the pressures brought about
by the fiscal crisis and the rapidly changing political, legal, and economic climate. As a result, APEH
intemal staff were unable to assimilate new technologies, practices, and procedures. The project
implementation team was forced to rely increasingly on a substantial number of external consultants.
Risk assessment omitted the financial management capacity/risk with regard to locally funded expenditures.
The financial management capacity of APEH was never analyzed and it was not revealed that the
accounting area of APEH lacked the necessary tools to monitor the use of local resources. The loan did
provide for procurement and implementation of administrative/financial application software packages,
including general ledger, accounts payable/receivable, and human resources. These packages, however,
were slated for implementation only during the latter stages of the project-too late to be useful for project
implementation.
Project documents did not establish performance indicators for the Development Objectives-although this
was not always practiced for Bank projects in 1992. Given the state of emergency in the tax sector that
-4 -



existed at the time of approval, only process and not quantitative indicators were specified.
To the extent possible, project design deficiencies indicated above were mitigated when the government
requested an extension of the project based on a two-year-tactical plan specifying the IT developments
needed to complete the modernization task. After mid-1996, the TAMP had a clearer set of objectives,
outcomes, and activities, though, unfortunately, quantitative indicators were not introduced at the same
time. Some of the project design problems were solved two years into implementation under the leadership
of the Bank's supervision team. The implementation problems that emerged after the adoption of the
Tactical Plan were related primarily to managerial incapacity to implement change and APEH's internal
conflicts, aggravated by excessive executive management change, as explained below.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The general objective of the loan was fully achieved. The objective was to help strengthen tax
administration, in line with the ongoing tax reform, and to achieve sustainability of revenues. To achieve
that, the project sought to increase the capacity to collect revenues and the audit capacity of the Hungarian
Tax Administration. At the end of the project both were significantly and substantially improved by the
updated institutional instruments, improved organization, revised processes and procedures, systems and
applications developed, training provided, and the many related technical assistance activities for institution
building.
The effectiveness of tax collection was improved: first, by improving the basic institutional instruments
such as tax return forms, payment forms, and the rules governing them, through simplification of
procedures for filing retums/paying taxes through the banking system, and improvement in selection
criteria for VAT audits; and second, by improving the tax administration by reorganizing the Budapest
Office, introducing a Large Taxpayers Unit, and improving overall quality of taxpayer services.
Taxpayer satisfaction was increased based on the availability of systems that dramatically reduced the
response time to all taxpayer transactions with the tax administration, as well as extensive customer service
training that occurred during the second phase of the project. In addition, built-in attributes of deterrence
and dissuasion were achieved with improvements in the selection of likely evaders, with the support of
computers and the use of laptops in field visits. The high level of automation reduced the burden on the tax
administration, as well as meeting the development objectives by enabling the agency to keep pace with tax
processing requirements that would not have been possible without the project.
Managerial capacity was irnproved through seminars and study tours provided to line managers as well as
agency executives. There was also continuous dialog with the Bank implementation team about APEH's
technical and managerial challenges. In addition, arrears of large taxpayers were practically eliminated and
overall tax collection costs reduced--both important indicators of efficiency.
Today, legal framework changes are being made to the tax structure to better distribute the tax burden--and
less because of the need for additional revenue. This is an outcome that not many transition countries can
obtain,
4.2 Outputs by components:
- 5-



Institutional Component
APEH implemented institutional reforms as part of its modemization program. The intent was to
consolidate gains of recent reforms and implement high-priority initiatives relating to collection and
audit. This included: the development of standardized payment forms; redesigning tax return forms;
development of selection criteria for VAT audits; development of new procedures for filing
returns/paying taxes through the banking system; and providing short-term technical external
assistance to meet needs identified during project implementation. This was to be accomplished by
utilizing 18 months of consultant services.
During 1994-97, in parallel with the TAMP, the Bank provided substantial technical assistance for
revenue policy and management in the context of the preparation of a CEM and a Fiscal Adjustment
Operation. These interventions included complementary policy strategies to simplify and make the tax
legal design more amenable to the operators (i.e., the taxpayer and the tax officials) and less vulnerable
to evasion and corruption. The government agreed with many of the recommnendations and
implemented them in 1995-1999.
The operational area of APEH was provided with modem, documented work procedures, and
institutionalized IT-support comprising:
(i)    A methodology for documenting workflow procedures
Document existing work procedures noting the differences among tax offices;
Reengineered modern procedures for main tax operations activities;
The second phase of workflow implementation was not completed (it was not envisaged in
the project), and the office system procurement was stopped. Introduction of work flow
technology would have required an additional investmnent of around US$10 million from
government funds.
(ii)    Management of documents and administrative processing:
office automation;
storage of electronic image of documents;
electronic work-flow management; and
desktop availability of laws and regulations for case workers.
(iii)   Decentralized Tax Account Management: core information system for tax processing that
ensures the timely and accurate recording of taxpayer liabilities and payments, with the
following characteristics:
* decentralization of tax accounting processing and reconciliation to the county offices
where these activities can be optimally performed;
* fully connected to registries;
little or no delays in payment processing imposed by headquarters;
support for electronic filing; and
processing of tax returns with automated posting of liabilities into accounting system.
Note: New (1998) APEH management decided against decentralized IT
processing because of lack of UNIX expertise in the counties, unfeasible on line
- 6 -



replication to central computers, and availability and reduction of network cost during
the life of the project. Therefore, decentralization was not executed as originally
agreed with the World Bank and the IMF. Nevertheless, tax accounts management
remains a decentralized activity.
(iv)   Comprehensive taxpayer registration system:
* Integrated with the Tax Account System;
* Capable of integration with electronic workflow system;
* Decentralized processing of taxpayer registration, verification of eligibility and problem
resolution activities;
* Final identification cards issued centrally after final verification to avoid duplicate
registrations; and
*  Capable of linking to the Chambers of Commerce and to the Registration Courts to
facilitate registration and reduce burden placed on taxpayers.
(v)    Systems to support audit selection and auditor operational activities:
* Hungarian Eskort system to support auditor field activities;
* Eskort auditor support system has been placed in production, and APEH is currently
negotiating a maintenance arrangement; and
* Hungarian TARGET system for selection of cases for auditing. The original TARGET
system development was interrupted before it reached production stage because of change of
strategy by new management in APEH. APEH indicated it will develop a similar but improved
system.
(vi)   Quality assurance capacity:
* Trained staff in quality assurance;
* Established QA team and responsibilities; and
* Migrated QA team to APEH.
The management support and analytical area of APEH was provided with state-of-the-art tools,
comprising:
*     Data mining software capable of assembling internal operational data at the taxpayer level
and external economical data in a consistent set;
*     Strong statistical tools capable of analyzing the productivity and efficiency of operations,
aiding in the preparation of annual audit plans, and analyzing economic trends; and
*     Strong modeling capacity that enables APEH to estimate tax revenues, perform scenario
analysis when changes in tax laws are under consideration, and to assist the MOF with the
estimation of GDP.
Information Technology Component
Development of information technology was almost totally executed. The following were the major
accomplishments under this component:
A large investment was made to modemiize APEH's computer equipment comprising:
mini-computers, large servers, desktop and laptop computers for APEH staff, local area networks,
wide area networks for both voice and data, introduction of office automation including electronic mail,
-7 -



and the pilot testing of a sophisticated automated workflow management system.;
* Eskort auditing system is operating in five counties (Pest, Bacs, Szolnok, Baranya, and Gyor),
confirming APEH's commitment to decentralized auditing;
* Four very large systems (VIR, FOK2P, ANYT I, ESKORT) were installed and will remain as the
backbone of the system for a long time;
* Executive level information system, developed under SAS environment. Main characteristics:
-     Corporate tax database and information system
-     Operational statistics by office and tax
-     GDP estimation model
-     Historical taxpayer statistics
-     Management trend information
Electronic Filing and Forms Management: Improvements in filing arrangements:
-     introduce electronic filing for the largest taxpayers
-     use modem X.400, X.500, and EDI technologies to implement this service
-     promote legal basis for documents filed electronically
-     implement formal forms management package for design and maintenance of paper forms
Training Component
The project called for the training in the use of hardware and software development tools to be provided by
the respective suppliers; technical training in the RDBMS, CASE tools, etc. for about 100 IT specialists; a
course on standard systems development methodology; training of about 400 staff from different disciplines
in the operation of the new systems; and a limited number of study tours for operational staff to visit other
tax authorities. For this purpose APEH was to draw up a detailed training program and identify staff to be
trained. Support for tax administration training was to be provided by a grant from EU-PHARE. The
expectation was that the latter would assist in the development of a training strategy for APEH based on a
detailed needs assessment. Based on a feasibility study, EU-PHARE would assist APEH to finance a tax
training center, pilot a train-the-trainer program, and finance specialist training material from existing
allocations. Outputs include:
* Decentralized training systems successfully completed, numerous manuals prepared, courses
offered, local tax office training rooms set up, and the capacity to develop locally relevant training
materials developed.
As in the case of automation, there was an interest in re-centralizing parts of the training associated
administrative systems, particularly those related to IT management and administration. In spite of
this, all operational IT training will be decentralized. Currently, 300 APEH non-IT staff were enrolled
in TAMP and office automation related training.
Over 4,000 staff were trained in the training programs of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econornic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial institutional development of APEH was achieved by upgrading its organizational structure,
-8 -



improving institutional arrangements, creating a modem IT culture, challenging existing ways and
practices, and by the introduction of a change management methodology that allows the agency to safely
mix the introduction of innovation with the ability to maintain continuity of operation of older system, thus
never interrupting collection of revenues. For example, the new registration system was not completed
under the new technological approach but was assembled as part of the system in a way that operators are
able to work simultaneously in both systems.
The Two-year Tactical Plan specified improved tax administration as it main goal and the use of IT as the
agent of institutional change. It brought into APEH a strong formal methodology for the implementation of
IT systems and control over the introduction of changes to business processes and procedures. This
followed a logical tax reform pattern which started with tax policy and continued with the clarification of
the business side in the first phase of the project, as suggested by the IMF and the Bank. As a result,
APEH is now able to:
Inform taxpayers about their debts with accuracy and timeliness;
* Promptly identify those who could be evading the major share of their taxes based on internal and
external information;
* Process tax collection information and statistical data fast and accurately without redundancies;
Establish the institutional framework for future organizational and applications development based
on a well-conceived structure and the new capacity of the IT systems and applications
development; and
* Organize countrywide training programs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In spite of its overall satisfactory result, the project faced numerous implementation difficulties. A number
of external factors caused APEH IT staff to devote a substantial amount of their efforts-much more than
originally anticipated-to fulfilling urgent agency operational needs instead of project activities, thus
slowing down the pace of implementation and increasing the risks of introducing change.
The major factor outside the control of the government or implementing agency was:
* Macro-economic pressures led the government to assign top priority to reducing arrears and
improving revenue flows to the treasury. APEH lacked the capacity to meet this challenge and was
pushed to the point of collapse.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*  Constant changes in tax laws and regulations by Parliament.
*  These changes caused swings in information processing workloads, e.g., substantially increased
registrations, declarations, etc., resulted in large increases in data processing volumes and
subsequent operational problems, requiring urgent attention of the IT staff.
*  Large and unexpected new projects: e.g. customs interface for VAT enforcement (1995), SSA
(1998), and changes in VAT thresholds and procedures.
*  Changes in top management at APEH and MOF during the course of implementation altered
project and business strategies and priorities (one of which coincided with a change in the Task
Manager).
*  A government decision that APEH should absorb 3,000 redundant teachers into its ranks.
9-



*   The government decision to assign social security collection to APEH, along with staff, all of
whom had to be retrained, thus displacing training activities under the project.
The Hungarian Government changed the status of the presidency of APEH from a career civil service
position to a political appointment. The president then became subject to change every time the
government did or political pressure was applied. This caused changes in the direction and priorities for
the project, and also some loss of institutional memory. The high turnover-five presidents during the life
of the project-promoted different leadership styles, priorities, and relations with the project coordinating
unit as well as the Bank team.
For example, following one of these political transitions, the newly appointed president chose not to support
the strategic IT plan, considering it overly-ambitious, and requested more financial resources than available
under the project.
By 1996 it was already clear that the project development objectives would not be totally fulfilled by the
project completion scheduled for end-1996. The Bank proposed to the government cancellation of
remaining activities without further disbursements by June 1996. The Government then requested a
two-year extension of the project, which resulted in the mutually agreed Two-year Tactical Plan, a step
down from the original IT strategy. The project resumed to fulfill its objectives until June 1998, when the
government again changed.
The June 1998 political transition substantially changed the attitude of the government toward the role of
international agencies, which had an effect on the TAMP. The new Prime Minister announced Hungary
would assume more control over all political and administrative functions of the State. This led to a direct
intervention in the management of APEH and essentially politicized the agency and the tax revenue
function, which was announced as a government priority. Unfortunately, as the TAMP project was
substantially completed by previous APEH management, the new government did not consider the results
relevant to its new, but nor fully articulated agenda. It was only later, after the TAMP project results were
fully understood, that they became an acknowledged part of the agency's on-going tax administration
modernization efforts by new, post-TAMP APEH management.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
APEH remained a highly bureaucratic institution during most of the life of the project, and never achieved
the level of efficiency awareness the Bank's team would like to have seen. This limitation included
insufficient regard to the possibility of corrupt practices occurring within APEH, in particular the way
Hungarian budgetary funds were used in the project.
Additionally, project management, at times, focused excessively on hardware and the build-up of central
analytical capacity, essentially ignoring the business design and applications work for actual tax
administration defined in the first phase of the project. As a consequence, the highest priority was assigned
to the development of software capacity for statistical and management information purposes, with little
regard for the needs of operational managers. This was contrary to the explicit project objectives and
ultimately led to slowing the pace of implementation of the tax administration applications. For example,
taxpayers accounts software (FOK2) was substantially delayed, and registration and declarations
applications were not completed on schedule. Fortunately, APEH's internal IT organization, based on
knowledge acquired during the first phase of the project, was able to reinforce the existing systems,
- 1 0 -



including those for registration, and successfully developed complementary software to support the
necessary tax functions under the old system while more advanced software applications were being
developed.
Furtheimore, towards the end of project implementation, following new political directives, APEH
management wanted neither the World Bank nor anyone from the previous administration involved in
agency reforns. This resulted in drastic measures, including the eviction of the project unit from its
facilities-even though many sub-projects were being piloted in local offices and needed active follow-up
by the project unit. The 1998 change of Government halted project implementation at a crucial moment-
even though nearly all funds had been disbursed and most project benefits had been obtained. Fortunately,
after a transition period, the new APEH team rescued most of the products developed by the project and
made an effort to improve and adapt products that did not fit well the agency's new strategic direction.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project cost was estimated at US$55.6 million equivalent, excluding taxes and duties from which the
project was exempt. Of this, the foreign exchange component was estimated at US$29 million. The Bank
financed all foreign exchange costs (52 percent of total project cost), while local costs (US$26.6 million
equivalent) were financed by the Government. APEH used EU-PHARE grant funding, separate but
complementary to the project, to finance tax administration training. Also, the IMF contributed to the
project through the financing of a resident Tax Advisor for the first two years of project implementation,
and assisted the Bank's supervision team over the same period. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.9
million equivalent was included to cover the cost of equipment, training, and consultants needed for timely
project start.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Most of the project outcomes are being sustained and are very likely to continue to be sustained in the
future Although managerial commitment to the project varied during the life of the project, technical
commitment both in the area of tax administration and IT were reasonably stable. The business
modernization plan (APEH 2000) was fully implemented, as was most of the IT strategy. The only
exception was in the area of systems development, which had mixed results. The project suffered from
repeated ups and downs in agency leadership and commitment. Two of the presidents were highly
supportive and directly involved in achieving results for the TAMP. The level of commitment of
management was crucial to overall project achievements. Current management, appointed after completion
of the project, after analysis of the basic TAMP concepts and products, has institutionalized major features
of the project and is adapting others, thus ensuring sustainability of the project.
During the first, "emergency" phase of the project (1993-95/early 1996), there was a strong emphasis on
reducing the two-year backlog of tax returns, after the change in the tax laws that greatly increased the
number and types of taxpayers. At that time, the agency began to develop a strategic framework for tax
administration reform. Products delivered by 1995 included a general 10-year strategy for tax
administration reform, including both a business and IT strategy elements. Out of this general strategy
emerged two other products: (a) APEH 2000, a medium-term strategy for tax administration reforms, and
(b) an APEH IT Strategy.
- 11 -



In 1995, APEH's management modified the IT strategy concentrating on the most immediate and urgent
needs of APEH. This became known as the Two-year Tactical Plan-the basis for the second phase of the
project (1996-1999). Tax administration applications development received more attention; however, the
institutionalization of the strategic plan for tax reform as well as the results of the training in project
development methodologies began to take hold in the tax agency-in parallel with systems applications
development, and the deployment of the auditing system, Eskort, in local tax offices.
Managerial, technical and computer training were delivered to over 4,000 staff creating the necessary
human resource conditions for full use of the investment.
The IT systems developed will remain the backbone of the system for many years to come. Moreover,
APEH has reached a level of IT development that fulfills the structural, capacity, and training requirements
of Hungary and will be able to adapt to the new taxation system that will be initiated by the tax reform in
the near future.
Finally, the accession to the EU imposes severe obligations to acceding countries related to the levels of
compliance required to belong to the EU. This is expected to provide further support for the sustainability
of project results. This is because, once fully implemented, activities developed during the project surpass
current EU standards. This is undoubtedly why the Hungarian tax administration is now widely viewed as
the best system in Central Europe, and a model-even outside the region-attesting to the depth of the
institutional reforms.
Therefore, in view of the critical dependency of the agency on the business structure and systems put in
place by the project, and the enabling environment that was introduced, the overall assessment is that
project sustainability is highly likely and indeed inevitable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In the rapidly changing environment of information systems, APEH will need to undertake additional IT
modernization transition efforts, as follows:
* Complete the migration to "open systems." The DEC/Compaq AlphaVMS systems and
DSM/MUMPS application software platform (which is still used for a substantial portion
of the production business applications) has probably at most another five years useful life in
the global IT market. It will become increasingly difficult for APEH to recruit and/or
retain skilled IT staff for this platform. APEH has indicated that it plans to start migrating the
existing DSM applications soon--from VMS to UNIX using a similar and generally compatible
UNIX-based product (called Cachet).
The RDBMS data management software (Ingres) that was procured through an early project ICB
is out of favor in the global IT market. It has not kept pace with technological development and is
posing significant technical problems to APEH. APEH is planning and should proceed promptly to
select and implement a more suitable alternative product as part of a comprehensive data
management strategy.
Lastly, training in the new technology for existing/remaining APEH IT staff is needed, as many of
these intemal staff either received insufficient training during the project or were not
able to put the training they received to use in a timely manner; therefore, the knowledge has
- 12-



gone stale. APEH does not seem to have any significant budgetary limitations that could put
existing systems and operations at risk or prevent the above-mentioned measures from being
implemented.
Four main systems have been implemented, completing the transition phase. Other key systems need to
migrate in the near future and the current APEH team is aware of this and working on it. In addition, the
county directorates took the initiative to build on the achievements under the project in the area of
team-building. This effort takes the form of routine meetings of county officials to: share case studies of IT
applications and their expansion; discuss management issues related to the scarcity of computers in local
offices; and discuss revenue performance.
In the crucial area of auditing, Eskort implementation and training continues under the initiative and control
of the county directorates. A second phase of Eskort implementation is planned soon in the counties of
Vas, Zala, Veszprem, and Hajdu.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project came on stream during a time of difficult transition for the country. New tax legislation
promoted by the international agencies to improve revenue strained the Tax Administration agency much
beyond existing capacity and caused a profound crisis. At the time the project was prepared, APEH faced
a tax processing backlog of over one year, quickly approaching two years, and an imminent collapse of the
collection system.
Thus the loan was fully relevant to the country needs and actually based on urgent requirement for
modemization of the tax agency in all administrative and technical aspects. For that reason, initial project
requirements included a substantial investment in hardware and software to handle the huge backlog using
incrementally modernized systems. At the time of the project design APEH had quite limited computer
capacity, and the few computers it had lacked sufficient memory and speed to meet the requirements then
confronting the agency--or its future needs after business process reengineering.
The scale of the loan was adapted to accommodate the role of the two intenational agencies then involved
in trying to assist APEH, namely the IMF and EU-PHARE. Specifically, the IMF received responsibility
to provide assistance on the tax administration side, and to finance a resident tax administration advisor to
coordinate all technical assistance. The EU-PHARE, independently of the loan but in parallel and in a
coordinated effort, received the responsibility to provide tax administration training, including developing a
training strategy for the agency based on work flow analysis, and preparing plans for a central tax training
center. The Bank was responsible for financing the gap and providing overall supervision to ensure
achievement of project objectives as a whole. Accordingly, the Bank became responsible for the IT
modernization requirements and for preparation and supervision of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall project supervision was satisfactory. It was especially intensive during the last two years of the
project. In addition to formal supervision efforts, IT aspects were frequently reviewed by the supervision
team IT specialist, who also monitored IT efforts during supervision of other regional projects. From 1996
onward, the project was routinely supervised by the task manager, who also served as the Regional Tax
Specialist in the Resident Mission. The technical composition of the supervision teams represented all
- 13 -



substantive areas of the loan.
Supervision missions were effective in bringing to the attention of the Borrower issues that were affecting
implementation. However, generally, when the missions departed, many of the issues raised were not
addressed by the project management team on the Government side. Task management of the project
proved complicated: first, by the participation of the IMF and EU-PHARE, both of which had unique
though complementary objectives in the context of the Bank loan; and second, when the two partners
dropped out of the loan, leaving the Bank with a gap in technical capacity to implement the rest of the
project.
Although technically highly satisfactory and effective, Bank supervision missions failed to convince APEH
management to address two important implementation problems: (a) a technically unsuitable project
director appointed for the second phase, whose performance was clearly unsatisfactory; and (b) the conflict
between the software development group of the TAMP project and APEH's internal applications
development unit The supervision team made strong recommendations in the aide-memoires, and followed
up with correspondence, and discussions with APEH management about the need to address these issues.
Not enough was done to force a solution because of the Supervision Team's fear that the alternative would
be to sacrifice the project.
This project was selected by the Bank's QAG team for a rapid evaluation. The evaluation reflected a
moment in time, toward the end of implementation, in which the project was under adversary review by a
new APEH management team. The same implementing agency team that participated in the QAG took
responsibility for evaluating project results. The ICR evaluation took into account the full project
implementation history, rather than a given moment in the life of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory. Though there were project design shortcomings,
the overall project objectives and design were appropriate. Technical supervision was highly satisfactory,
and project management supervision was marginally satisfactory. When facing the many implementation
challenges, the Bank team made the tactical decision to keep the project moving. The rationale was that
even with partial results, it was clear that the project was contributing significantly to APEH's institutional
development and helping to generate badly needed public revenues. Prospects for positive multiplier effects
from the project are considered high.
The taxpayer's perception is that the strengthened administrative capacity of APEH, which in large measure
can be attributed to the TAMP, became a deterrent to evasion. Also, the creation and operation of the
Large Taxpayers Unit enabled the agency to curb the growth and substantially reduce arrears for this group
of taxpayers, who represented a significant percentage of tax revenues. These two outcomes paid many
times over for the project investment in financial returns to the State. At the time of the loan, this was of
great concern not only to the TAMP team but also those preparing the CEM and PSAL.
The project benefited by the on-site task management that could steer the dialog with the Borrower on a
daily basis. For example, when the CEM was being prepared, fraudulent VAT rebates became an issue.
In the ensuing dialog with the Bank team, APEH took immediate action to curb the existing abuse of the
system. Later, during preparation of a Public Sector Adjustment Loan, which contained an important
taxation component, the Bank team suggested simplifying VAT filing and withholding, along with folding
social security collection into APEH.
- 14 -



At one time, at the end of the first phase of implementation, APEH was indecisive about how to proceed
with implementation. EU-PHARE consultants had failed to satisfy APEH management with their training
program products. The IMF feared its tax policy technical assistance would be compromised because of
the slow down. The Bank seriously considered canceling the Loan. However, APEH management
prevailed on the Bank to continue, agreeing to implement the Two-year Tactical Plan. This plan was a
tactical implementation of the IT strategy originally agreed, focusing on IT requirements and software
solutions. It also supported the business-IT alignment.
Regarding supervision of financial management activities, there were elements of the Bank relationship
with Hungary in the area of tools for monitoring and evaluation Bank financed projects that made it
difficult for the Supervision Team to carry out full supervision. Under a special agreement, the parties
interpreted the audit clause of all loan agreements in a very restrictive and idiosyncratic way. As a result,
the capacity of implementation teams to see the complete financial management of and reporting on
projects was severely limited. The Bank had agreed with the Government to have a centralized approach to
all World Bank project audits under the control of the National Bank of Hungary. Audits were limited to
the formal accounting control of the special accounts opened by the NBH for the projects. Every year, a
set of the reports was sent to the country officer, and task managers were not part of the information flow.
Under this approach, task managers lost the financial perspective of their individual project as a whole.
During the life of the project, the counterpart contribution to the project was excluded from the Bank's
external audit requirement, with the Bank's part limited to the formal accounting of the special accounts.
Suspicion of corruption in the local counterpart funding of the project prompted the Bank to request the
support of an internal auditor to help the team evaluate the financial management aspects in late 1997. As
a result of the team's intervention, change of policy on project financial management and audit in Hungary
was brought about in 1999.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower participation in the preparation effort was satisfactory. Although the Borrower, just coming out
of a central planning economy, did not have sufficient experience in modern tax administration, it
collaborated fully with the IMF and Bank project development teams during the project preparation phase.
The president of APEH and key vice-presidents were personally involved during project preparation and
participated enthusiastically in the discussions to restructure the agency, a condition for effectiveness of the
project. APEH was also quite efficient in the preparation of bidding documents for the initial procurement
of computers that was critical to relieve then current tax return processing bottlenecks.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
APEH is a relatively independent agency. Hence, broad government had very little influence in the
execution of the project particularly after the IMF stopped active participation in the project. The Ministry
of Finance, as supervisor of APEH, was represented on the Project's Steering Committee, and therefore
participated in key decisions made regarding project direction. The National Bank of Hungary, as a
representative of the Government, participated in supervision mission activities and facilitated dialog with
the agency when necessary. In summary, the Government did not substantially help or hinder project
execution.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's overall performance over the life of the project was Satisfactory--though
- 15 -



mixed and with some substantive issues/problem areas towards the end of the project implementation
period, as follows:
* borrower management miscues caused delays and reduced overall project productivity substantially
by deviating from the stipulations in the Loan Agreement that called for a single, integrated IT team
under unified management, as indicated in paragraph 62 of the Technical Annex, and also paragraph
14 of the main Loan Agreement.
* Lack of detailed accounting for project expenditures financed by the Government.
* Insufficient continuity in key management positions.
* Excessive organizational inertia and inability to overcome intemal resistance to changes to
modernize the computer technology platform.
*  Appointment of an unsuitable project director caused the project to lose its focus on the business of
tax administration in favor of a technology-oriented focus.
* The IT training program was not planned thoroughly enough with regard to both selection of
attendees (too many consultants, not enough permanent staff) and scheduling of training (too often
allowed to go stale before new knowledge could be reinforced through practical application).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory though mixed, with instances of high and low commitment
to the project.
Early implementation (1993) was characterized by strong and direct involvement of APEH's president in
project execution, with project leadership assigned to an APEH tax administration director; by strong
participation by the IMF and EU-PHARE; and by a focus on refonns in tax administration, while
modernization of the computer equipment was taking place in the background.
In the second period (1994 to September 1996), APEH management was changed. This period was
characterized by inadequate top management support and technical standstill. Both the IMF and
EU-PHARE discontinued their support to the project. By early 1996, it was clear that the project
development objectives would not be totally fulfilled by project completion--scheduled for end-1996.
During this period, APEH lacked clarity of objectives for modernizing tax administration business
processes. For instance, audit modernization was not part of APEH's plans because of the continued
tension between technology teams and approaches; an interest in a centralized approach that would place
the statistical function at a higher priority than tax administration; and because of the lack of specific
action plans with well-defined goals, budgets, and schedules.
The third period of the project (January 1997 to June 1998) followed the approval of the Two Year
Tactical Plan, developed at the end of the second period. APEH became quite active in executing the
tactical plan. On the other hand, the project director role was given to director of SZTADI and Piller Ltd.,
an IT company owned by APEH. As a result, the IT and statistical aspects of the plan received more
attention than others, and priorities were not always aligned with business needs. Bank supervision
missions became crucial to keeping the project moving in the right direction.
- 16 -



The fourth and last period witnessed yet another change of government in July 1998. As a consequence, the
final year of the project was not a year of strong implementation but rather a period of assessment of the
work carried out under the previous administration, and a review of the objectives of the tactical plan that
had been agreed with the Bank. APEH's priorities shifted toward establishing an investigative unit (Tax
Police) and merging social security collection into APEH. Project implementation became a second-order
priority, at best.
8. Lessons Learned
Loss of Clarity During Implementation. Tax administration projects often have large
investments in automation because of the nature of the tax processing activity. During implementation, a
tendency exists to focus excessively on the complexity and difficulties related to the procurement and
implementation of automation. The lack of understanding of business requirements and the human
resources dimension of change-as was the case during the second phase of project execution-reversed the
implementing agency's priorities in the development of project activities at the expense of expected tax
administration reforms. It is imperative that the Bank maintain a proper mix of professionals in the
supervision team to maintain focus on substantive implementation priorities.
Substantial Investments Left Undefined. Tax Administration and other projects with substantial
investment in automation should define, at the preparation stage, the IT strategic plan, and the
organizational framework that will be used to implement automation. The roles of the internal automation
staff and external consultants should be made clear to reduce conflict and facilitate change. Although
unfeasible because of the need to fast-track preparation, an earlier prepared IT tactical plan would have
permitted smoother management of change based on shared objectives, strategies, programs,
responsibilities, and performance measurement. The lack of detailed planning caused the original project
timetable and financial resource allocation to be unrealistic. The supervision team had to re-negotiate
project activities, timetable, and force-fit the automation program from a position of weakness, given the
financial constraints.
Management of Change. Professional tax administrators must direct the process of change, with
delegation to the IT department avoided. The TAMP documentation made clear the need for sound
management at all organizational levels participating in the project. The first phase of the TAMP was
managed by committed county tax administration managers with excellent results. Then, emphasis shifted
towards an IT-trained project manager without tax administration knowledge or experience. The lack of
appropriate and direct conditionality made it impossible for the project team to overcome the decision by
APEH management.
Controlling Corruption. The TAMP revealed the inherent risks of Bank projects in terms of
corruption. As often is the case, unscrupulous officials saw the TAMP as an opportunity to further
personal interests, despite the team's strong monitoring of all Bank-funded procurement. In spite of the
team's efforts, it is possible that the government's own funds were used in the name of the TAMP--but with
much less control. If outright corruption did not occur, the result was much waste of resources, which
could have been prevented if stronger financial controls were in place.
Continuity of ProjectManagement. The TAMP illustrated the importance of having continuity in
the composition of project teams, both Borrower and Bank staff, especially in key management positions.
This would have facilitated much better working relationships and trust, institutional memory, and clear
and consistent project direction. Bringing the TAMP to a successful conclusion was only possible because
of reasonable continuity on the Bank's side.
- 17 -



*     Management of Training Activities. Training programs should be closely monitored for effective
planning and scheduling. This is to ensure that not only are the topics relevant to the work at hand, and
sufficient investments made in permanent Borrower staff, but also that participants are able to apply the
learning within a reasonable time so the new knowledge and know-how is not forgotten.
*     Procurement of Information Technology. This is an area of Bank performance that is often
indicated as a weak spot and common cause of project delays. In this instance, the Borrower indicated its
satisfaction with the prompt, well managed, and relatively problem-free procurement of all information
technology under the project. The lesson is that professional management of the IT components on the
Bank's side makes all the difference.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency viewed the project as an important contribution to tax administration in Hungary;
but while acknowledging the importance of the hardware and software applications, the agency expressed
reservations about how the IT improvements were institutionalized. In the implementing agency's view,
although the project was originally designed to modernize the tax administration and support this
modernization with up-to-date information systems, it was gradually transformed into an information
technology project, losing its original "tax administration" objectives.
The TAMP was expected to address vital strategic goals, but failed to accomplish its objectives within the
originally expected time and resource considerations. The implementing agency also indicated that the
TAMP project director was not well selected and that there was weak involvement of APEH staff.
According to the implementation agency, the major achievements of the Borrower were:
*   APEH has the best tax office information system in Central Europe, in which the most important
functions are supported by appropriate application programs. TAMP inputs led to the
development of the management information system, the tax payment (financial flow) registration
sub-system, the audit operation support sub-system, and taxpayer registration sub-systems.
*   The original supplier dependent hardware and software (DEC, VMS, DSM, Siemens BS2000)
were expanded and partly changed to better meet the current standards and needs of the agency
(i.e., UNIX, NT, and relational databases).
*   An up-to-date network infrastructure (WAN-LAN) was installed which for the next three years
will ensure the necessary transmission capacity for the growing information system of APEH.
*   A planning, project management, and control methodology was introduced, which ensures fast
organization of common horizontal projects for different units in APEH and also ensures the most
efficient solution to managing any given task work.
*   Technical inputs, included those not completed, still provide the agency with valuable
documentation that could be used to complete these inputs, including the reorganization of APEH
and the implementation of a modem office automation (work flow) system.
- 18 -



*   A pilot electronic declaration filling system was implemented for large tax payers (about 150).
*   About 4,000 employees received basic office automation training (Word, Excel).
These achievements also implied costs for APEH, both financial and institutional:
*   Only four of the nineteen IT subprojects of the Two-Year Tactical Plan were completely finished
(some were partially to nearly finished).
*   The know-how acquired during TAMP was transferred during the latter stages of the project to
sub-contractors in the project unit (some of whom were hired from APEH's staff).
*   The small number of APEH staff participating in the project in the latter stages of the project came
at a high institutional price.
*   Inappropriate IT selection caused high additional costs to APEH, as in the case of the Ingress
DBMS, the replacement of which was already a question in 1996.
*   A fundamental conceptual change was necessary in the APEH's accounting system after project
close (summer 1999) because the development in this area was believed to have caused its collapse.
The World Bank continuously reported to the management of APEH on occasional financial transactions
that seemed not in line with project objectives, the inappropriateness of the audit firm, the high cost of some
marginal investments, and lack of current information about the Hungarian contribution to the project.
The World Bank also tried to deal with the project coordination issue but in the end this was not
satisfactorily resolved. The same proved to be the case for the project manager who was not only manager
of TAMP but also director of SZTADI, the central statistical institute of APEH (originally under the
Ministry of Finance), as well as being the executive manager of Pill6r Ltd., a company fully-owned by
APEH. These three functions were irreconcilable in principle but proved politically intractable.
The Bank was viewed as not able to implement all of its technical assistance as planned in the Hungarian
institutional and tax environment-although technical inputs were of sufficient high quality and utility for
the long-term development of APEH.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
TAMP: Project Indicators
The Hungary TAMP project was prepared in the early 1990's in response to an emergency situation in
Hungary. The IMF had been advising the Hungarian government on fiscal measures necessary to transition
the country from a planned to a market economy. The rapid increase in the number of taxpayers and the
introduction of VAT overwhelmed APEH's capacity, particularly in Budapest. The agency suddenly faced
a situation in which it was at the same time understaffed to face the challenge, did not have the technical
expertise, lacked the computer capacity and the ability to manage the change process necessary for
modernization. In response to an IMF request, the World Bank quickly put a project together to assist the
agency in transitioning to a modem environment while maintaining attention on revenue collection targets.
At the time it was unusual for projects to define indicators. Because the project objectives, as defined, do
not lend themselves well to quantitative indicators, no indicators were created for the project. Nevertheless,
the ICR team felt it was important to attempt to build some indicators that could help the team to better
understand the "modernization" implemented by the project. Two types of indicators were created: one
qualitative set covering Development Objectives and one quantitative set covering project outcomes.
Interpretation of some quantitative data must be done with extreme care. The reader is cautioned
particularly regarding the following data:
(a) Business tax declarations. One of the activities during the first phase of the project targeted the
rationalization of tax declaration thresholds to reduce the number of tax returns to a level that was
efficient for APEH to process in termns of the cost of processing and revenue collected relation. This
rationalization activity reduced substantially the number of tax returns processed (for example, the
number of yearly VAT returns was reduced from 4.6 million in 1994 to about 1.35 million in 1996
with the introduction of quarterly returns.
(b) Tax Rates. Tax rates were substantially reduced for business taxpayers in 1996 and have been
increased throughout the whole period for many other taxes in particular VAT and social security
contributions. In spite of the reduction, business taxation increased because the measure induced
foreign investors to locate their headquarters in Hungary; also the massive losses that occurred during
the early phase of the transition were reduced dramatically; and lastly, administrative efforts to control
tax evasion increased thanks to the TAMP.
(c) Arrears. Before TAMP, data on arrears contained serious inconsistencies, including very old and
uncollectable arrears for failed enterprises, and arrears due to accounting errors caused by a weak
accounting system. It is estimated that only about 40% of the pre-project arrears could be considered
manageable debt.
- 20 -



Project Indicators        Before TAMP               Phase I                Phase II             Sustainability
Development Objectives
* Strengthen Tax           * Excessively          * Tax Administration    * Phase I results      * Phase-I and Phase-II
Administration to support    centralized          modernization vision   maintained              results are being
reform from planned to     organization           and strategy developed   * Tax collection      sustained and enhanced
market economy             * Disparate regional    * APEH 2000 business  business processes      by APEH. The only
* Establish a modern       business processes and    plan developed      re-engineered           strategic area targeted
Informatics culture in APEH,  systems             * Automation strategy   * Revised automation   for strengthening that
and a managerial culture   * Disparate regional    developed to support    2-year tactical plan  was not fully
based on sophisticated data   legal interpretation of    the APEH 2000 business  developed       implemented was Audit
analysis                   tax laws               plan                   concentrating on the    Selection. The TAMP
* Inefficient business    * Responsibility for    redevelopment of key    audit selection process
processes crowding out   Collection decentralized  tax processing systems   was piloted but not
internal capacity     to regional offices     and modernization of    implemented because of
* Inability to produce   * Budapest office   the IT infrastructure   weak match to
reliable statistics on  reorganized Into four  * Auditor support     Hungarian conditions.
revenue collection and    regional offices    system implemented     A new process is being
to estimate future     * Large Taxpayer Unit  (ESKORT)               developed
revenue to support     created                * Audit selection      * As an indication of
economic policy        * VAT and Income       system developed but    robustness and maturity
activities             Tax procedures         not implemented        APEH was able to
improved              (TARGET)                quickly take over the
* Filing thresholds    * A strong             collection of Social
reviewed               Management             Security contributions
* Arrears              Information System     * It is generally
management             serving both APEH and   accepted that APEH has
procedures established   the MOF was          became the most
* Existing regional    implemented            modern tax
business processes     * Management trained   administration in
documented             on how to exploit      Central Europe and a
* Computer systems    Informatics             model for the countries
development unified                           in transformation
- 21 -



* Modemize Information     * Outdated and highly  * Sufficient computer   * Sufficiency of     * Most Phase-I and
Technology Infrastructure to  insuffident computer    power capacity    computer power         Phase-l1 results
support reform from planned  infrastructure       * New application     maintained             sustained except in
to market economy          * Outdated            development            * Key new              applications
application           environment defined    applications           development. A new
development           * Telecommunications  implemented. Some       administration stopped
environment           capacity improved      partially developed and  several systems still in
* Minimal             * Uniform data         not implemented (a     development. Some are
telecommunications    processing environment  detailed list of      now continuing and
infrastructure         * Modem methods for  applications developed   some have been
* Disparate computer   project management    is included in annex 5)   cancelled
applications at regional  adopted            * Telecommunications  * Migration from old
offices               a Minimum              environment            data and application
* Lack of computers    disruption migration  implemented            environment slower
for professional work    strategy adopted    * Modern, open         than originally planned
* No project          * Modem data and       systems computing      * Information
management capacity    security management    environment           Technology
* Ad-hoc data and     methodologies adopted  introduced to the      Infrastructure is among
security management    * Computers           agency                 the best in the
purchased for most    * Strong project        Hungarian public sector
professional staff    management capacity    and the most modern of
* Key applications for  implemented          the tax administrations
VAT and Arrears       * Modem relational    in Central Europe
Management developed  data base and security
management technical
environments
implemented
* Modern data mining
environment enabling
management access and
exploitation of data.
Sophisticated revenue
and GDP forecasting
models and
management reports
Synergy with other World   * Compartmentalized   * Strategic use of   * Use of the Giro         Previous results
Bank Public Sector         country financial     banking system in      payment system for tax   sustained
Management projects        management            collection             payments (FSMP)         * Absorption of
* Limited input to                           * Integration with new   collection of social
economic poliry makers                       Treasury system        sector contributions
(PFMP)                 (PAHIP)
- 22 -



Outcome Indicators - Tax        Before TAMP                 Phase I                  Phase II               Sustainability
Processing
Processing Volume: Number
of Personal Income Tax                         4.486                    4.281                    4.300                    4.308
declarations (thousands)
Processing Capacity: processing
time (days)                                      90                       65                        35                       25
.   Company tax                                  70                        60                       40                       22
.   Individual entrepreneur                      35                        32                       20                       15
tax                                          32                       28                        20                       18
. VAT
 Personal income tax
Number of economically active
business entities (obliged to fill)
in thousands                                     129                      237                      288                      341
*   Company                                     448                       612                      473                      473
* Individual entrepreneur
Number of economically                           na                        na                       na                       na
active persons in thousands
Number of declarations
(thousands)                                      88                       178                      248                      294
.   Company                                     339                       485                      403                      408
. Individual entrepreneur
Business compliance: Ratio of
declarations to active Entities
(Y.)                                            66.5                     75.1                     85.5                       86
.   Company                                     69.5                     76.4                     85.1                      89.3
. Individual entrepreneur
Compliance of Individuals:
Ratio of dedarations to                          na                       na                        na                       na
active persons
Filing Automation for Large
Taxpayers: Percent of                                                                             7.43                      5.85
declarations flled
electronically at LTU
Overall Filing Automation:
Percent of declarations filed                                                                   0.0688                     0.011
electronically countrywide
Outcome Indicators -
Effidency of APEH
Enforcement
Overall Control of
Taxpayers: Countrywide                           800                      600                      700                      690
arrears (in Million USD)
Quality of Audit: Ratio of
number of Auditors using                                                                         0.102                     0.245
ESKORT to total number of
auditors
- 23 -



Outcome Indicators -
General APEH Efficiency
Administrative Overhead:
Ratio of total administrative                0.0139                   0.0075                    0.135                  0.0107
cost to total revenue
collection
Level of Automation: Ratio
of computer workstations to                    0.22                     0.42                     0.64                   0.695
professional staff
Ability to sustain IT
Investment Ratio of IT staff                  0.134                    0.101                    0.083                     0.07
to total staff
Ability to sustain IT
Investment: Ratio of IT                          na                      na                     0.059                    0.11
budget to total budget
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     AcuaMul/atest   Percentage of
Estlmae         Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Equipment and Facilities*                               29.20
Technical Asistance**                                    1.80
Incremental Recurrent Costs                             13.20
Estimated Actual Project Cost***                                         51.47
Total Baseline Cost                                     44.20            51.47
Physical Contingencies                                  3.60
Price Contingencies                                     7.80
Total Project Costs                55.60            51.47
Total Financing Required                55.60            51.47
* The Technical Annex for the project does not include a proper table indicating Project Cost by
Component, but rather indicates cost by main types of investment.
** Most technical assistance, including a resident Tax Administration Advisor, were to be, and actually
was, financed by the IMF through parallel financing. Similarly, the EU-PHARE program was to develop
and finance a training strategy for APEH. The EU-PHARE's developed strategy was never accepted but
training was provided under that program.
'** Because of the weakness in accounting for local contribution (described in the text of the ICR) the ICR
team was not able to get a breakdown of local expenses by category. Bank financed investmnents are
detailed in the project financing table below. The infornation above is the best information available and
indicates planned project costs by key areas of investment and the aggregate actuals as estimated by the
Hungarian State Treasury.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Procurment Method
Expenditure Category      IcB           NCB                       N.S.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
___________________    .(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     26.00          0.00         1.30          0.40         27.70
_____________________     (26.00)       (0.00)        (1.30)       (0.00)        (27.30)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         2.10          0.00          2.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.70)       (0.00)        (1.70)
4. Computer Facilities        0.00          0.00         0.00          7.10          7.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Incremental Recurrent      0.00          0.00         0.00         18.70         18.70
Costs                        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
- 25 -



6. Miscellaneous                0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        26.00           0.00          3.40           26.20          55.60
(26.00)        (0.00)         (3.00)         (0.00)        (29.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Peretg of Apopraisal
, _ 04;T; B*ak           Oov    LCol0:.       Ran       Go0          00vt- i iiP  Rank :  :t  CoP.
Equipment and Facilities*    23.80  5.40                21.60                         90.8   0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance      1.50      0.30                2.99                         199.3   0.0    0.0
Incremental Recurrent    0.00      13.20                0.00                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Costs
Unallocated              3.70       7.70                0.00                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Total**     29.00     26.60               24.60      26.87               84.8  101.0   0.0
* As indicated above, the Technical Annex for the project does not include a proper table indicating
Project Cost by Component.
** Detailed actual financing is provided for the Bank. Estimated total local financing is provided for the
Government contribution.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of ProJect Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
September, 1992                3   Project identification was
carried out by the IMF: FAD
Division Chief, I Tax Admin
Specialist, I Tax Admin
Automation Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 7-18, 1992           4   Appraisal: Task Manager
(TM), I IT Specialist, I
Operations Officer, IMF Tax
Admin. Specialist
February 16-19, 1993           7   Negotiations: TM, 1 IT
Specialist, I Operations Officer,
I Procurement Specialist, I
Lawyer, 1 Loan Disbursement
Specialist, I IMF Tax Admin.
Specialist
Supervision
May 19, 1993                   2  Information Technology (IT)
Specialist, I IMF Tax Admin
Specialist
July, 1993                     1  TM                                     S                  S
April 5, 1994                  3  TM, I IT Specialist, I                 S                  S
Operations Officer
August 1, 1994                 2  TM, 1 IMF Tax Admin                   HS                 HS
Specialist
February 27, 1995              2  TM and I IT Specialist                 S                 HS
March 24, 1995                 2  TM and I IT Specialist                 S                 HS
October 31, 1995              10  TM, 2 Tax Specialists, I Human         U                  S
Resource and Training (HRT)
Specialist, 2 Economists, 2
Consultants, 1 Mission
Assistant, 1 Secretary
January 19, 1996               2  TM and I Tax Specialist
January 29, 1996               1  Tax Specialist (TM)
February, 1996                 2  Tax Specialist (TM) and IT             U                  S
Specialist
April 25, 1996                 1  IT Specialist
September 20, 1996             6  Tax Specialist (TM), I IT              S                 S
Specialist, I HRT Specialist, 1
Tax Administration Specialist, I
Mission Assistant, 1 Secretary
- 28 -



March 25, 1997                  4   Tax Specialist (TM), 1 IT              S                  S
Specialist, I HRT Specialist, 1
Mission Assistant
October 10, 1997                3  Tax Specialist (TM), 1 IT               S                  S
Specialist, 1 Mission Assistant
September 25, 1998              5  Tax Specialist (TM), 1 IT               S                  S
Specialist, 1 HRT Specialist, I
Financial Management
Specialist, I Mission Assistant
June 21, 1999                   4   Tax Specialist (TM), I IT              S                  S
Specialist, I HRT Specialist, I
Mission Assistant
ICR
December 12-16, 1999           5    Tax Specialist (TM), 2 IT              S                  S
Specialist, 1 HRT Specialist,
I Mission Assistant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actul/Latest Estimate
No. Staff'weeks               US$ (,OO)
Identification/Preparation                 22.9                          77.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                      23.9                          81.6
Supervision                               114.6                        382.9
ICR                                       11.15                          90.3
Total                                    172.55                        631.8
The numbers above are actuals as of May 2000.
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                             O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                              O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
LK Physical                                   O H * SU O M O N O NA
8 Financial                                   OH *SUOM ON ONA
X Institutional Development                  O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Environmental                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
FPoverty Reduction                    O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FGender                               O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
X Private sector development                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
X Public sector management                    0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)
TAMP IT COMPONENT COMPLETION STATUS SUMMARY
Component            Technology   Achievement                    Comments
(as of 6/99)
Interim Processing Capacity                              Successful.
Improvements
*  DEC Minicomputers       OpenVMS          High       $12m of new DEC servers were procured and
installed in 1994. Due to subsequent and
similarly urgent needs for additional capacity,
more DEC Alpha computers were procured
under the loan in 1996-7, and subsequently
upgraded by APEH to all more modem,
Alpha-based systems in 1999. These servers,
which have also been deployed in all the
regional offices, can be readily converted to run
the UNIX operating system and are thus
generally consistent with the agreed-upon IT
strategy, pending application migration
Core Computing                                           Successful.
Infrastructure Components
* Communications            TCP/IP          High       Migration from proprietary DECnet
Network                                             communications to the open TCP/IP standard;
capacity increased to meet current needs.
Future growth likely.
*  Open Systems              UNIX        Substantial   A substantial computing base of 11 large HP
Computing Platform                                  UNIX servers have been procured and installed
at APEH headquarters; sufficient to
accommodate migration of many VMS
application subsystems.
- 30 -



* Data Management         Mixed (DSM,    Modest    APEH has a comprehensive approach to data
Ingress, SAS)               management and integration, however further
refinement and technology changes and are
needed. Ingres RDBMS software procured
through ICB and used in 6 application software
sub-systems is now declining in market and
vendor support; switch to industry-standard
Oracle RDBMS is advisable. MIS data stored in
SAS, but much data remains in DSM on VMS.
APEH has implemented a coherent coexistence
scheme accommodating mixed environments and
locations, which provides for smooth access to data
regardless of technology and location. The scheme
makes boundaries generally transparent to
users and programming tools and standards
exist. Further evolution of comprehensive and
unified data management architecture is
needed.
* Office Computing         Windows       SUbstantial   High ratio of PCs/professional staff with have
sufficient tools available to do their jobs.
Electronic mail partially deployed, pending
implementation of suitable mail server
capacity. Tax application graphical interface
strategy not yet implemented.
* Document Management        Mixed        Modest    More modem, imaging-based system was
piloted but did not offer sufficient cost/ benefit
due in part to low OCR scanning accuracy.
Current VMS/ DSM-based tracking system was
deemed adequate when combined with
electronic filing xsee below).
* Workflow Applications      Mixed       Negligible    Workflow applications developed but not
deployed, pending functionality adjustments
and absorptive capacity-based deployment
planning.
Institutional                                           Partially Successful.
Capacity-Building
Components
* Standardization of                     SUbstantial   Practices and procedures simplified and
Operational "Best                                  standardized across regions; Advice from IMF
Practices" and                                     and other experts put in practice; Changes
Procedures                                         reflected in tax administration application
systems. New "Concept of Operations"
(CONOPS Tactical sub-project) document
completed in second phase, providing a
blueprint for further process improvements.
* IT Project Management                   Modest    Formal, systematic capacity exists, but not
disseminated through all relevant APEH teams.
- 31 -



* New IT Technology       UNIX, CASE,    Modest    Training received, but mostly by contractors.
Training                 RDBMS,                    For staff, usefulness and retention impaired by
Software                  sustained demands for dealing with urgent
Tools, etc.                operational problems in existing "legacy'
systems environment.
* Change Management         Process,       Modest    Capacity developed but not successfully
and Quality Assurance    Procedures                absorbed into APEH; Contractors terminated
and Tools                 by the Borrower following latest APEH
management change.
Tax Administration                                      Successful. Rapidly evolving Tax
Application Software                                    Administration business needs were well met,
although open systems migration lagged.
Business functions successfully decentralized
(with regional servers) and standardized.
* Registration               Mixed          High      Taxpayer ID system implemented based on
advice from IMF and others
* Declaration Processing     Mixed       SUbstantial   Electronic filing successfully piloted in the
Large Taxpayers Unit; web-based filing
planned next. Full-scale deployment awaits
enabling legislation. (Ref. Document Mgmt.)
* Taxpayer Accounting        UNIX           High      Transactions posted and updated, decentralized
balances available the next day. Collections
dramatically improved.
* VAT Processing &           VMS            High      System includes control of VAT refunds,
Control                                            eliminating losses that neighboring countries
still suffer from.
* Auditing                 Windows        Modest    Danish Eskort system has been deployed to
help many auditors (approx. 150 laptops
deployed); Audit selection and planning
packages still needed; linked to MIS processes.
* MIS and Cash Flow      UNIX/SAS           High      The MIS system is comprehensive and the most
Management                                         advanced in the Central European, including
extensive statistical analysis capabilities fed by
data transfers from other APEH systems.
* Customer Service           Mixed       SUbstantial   Current account status readily available at all
sites; anecdotal evidence of service-oriented
responses. Electronic document retrieval and
email integration not yet available.
* Migration of                             Modest    Only a limited number of tax applications are
application software                               in full production in UNIX/RDBMS
from proprietary to                                environment, however a solid infrastructure
Open Systems/UNIX                                  has been built for future
computing platform.                                development/migration.
aT Modernization)
- 32 -



* Social Security          Mixed         High      This was added to the APEH work program as
Administration (new                             a high priority in 1998.
requirement)
Administrative Application   Nothing done   Negligible   APEH had small, locally-developed PC-based
Software Packages                                    applications covering these areas that continue
to function today. Modernizing them
reportedly never became a priority in the
APEH work program due to more pressing
business Issues.
* Payroll
* Human Resources
* General Ledger,                                  Early implementation of better flnancial
AP/AR                                           management systems could have helped
provide detailed accounting for local (HUE)
TAMP project expenditures.
Overall Evaluation of IT                             SUCCESSFUL
Subprojects
Original objectives         Project Instrument
*      Tax Return Processing Declarations Processing, Electronic Filling and Forms Management
*      Master Tax Accounts  Decentralized Tax Account Management
*      Tax Accounts Updates Decentralized Tax Account Management
*      Payments Processing   Decentralized Tax Account Management
*     Audit System          Audit Support
*      Bankruptcy Monitoring
*      Taxpayer Entity File   Taxpayer Registration
*      TIN Processing       Taxpayer Registration
*      Statistical Analysis &   Management Information System
Reports Generation
*      Administrative/Financial    Document Management and Administrative Infrastructure
Packages Implementation
Intermediate products:
Concept of Operations
Database Administration,
Data Management and Integration
System Architecture
Quality Assurance
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
? Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
M Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
D Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U  O HU
FX Overall                                          OHS OS  0 U  O HU
Implementation agency performance was satisfactory in the first phase of the project (first two years), but
only partially satisfactory in the last phase of the project, with significant variance depending on the
specific president of the agency.
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
N/A
- 35 -



