Docnment of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13573
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2212-HO)
SEPTEMBER 30, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Lempira
Average Exchange Rates
1991 L 5.31 = US$ 1.00
1992 L. 5.53 = US$ 1.00
1993 L. 6.30 = US$ 1.00
1991 SDR 1.0 = US$ 1.43
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BMI Maternal Child Coupon Program
BMJF Women Head of Household Coupon Program
CBH   Central Bank of Honduras
EEC   European Economic Community
FHIS Honduran Social Investment Fund
FHIS-I  First Honduran Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS-II Second Honduran Social Investment Fund Project
FINCA Foundation for International Community Assistance
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GNP Gross National Product
GECO General Statistical and Census Office
GOH Government of Honduras
IDA International Development Association
LCB Local Competitive Bidding
LSMS Living Standards Measurement Survey
LWSB Local Water and Sanitation Board
MHS   Multiple Purpose Permanent Household Survey
MOE Ministry of Education
MOH Ministry of Health
NGO Nongovernmental Organization
PRAF Family Assistance Program
RUTA Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SECPLAN National Planning Secretariat
UNDP United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Honduras
Social Investment Fund Project (Credit 2212-HO'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Honduras -Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit 2212-HO) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
This project developed and funded a social fund to mitigate the social costs of adjustment by
financing a large number of small-scale subprojects providing social and economic infrastructure.
Nearly all indicators of outcome -employment, focus on poorest areas, gender, etc. -were positive, and
the early success of the project attracted additional funds to expand its scope. The project outcome
is rated as satisfactory; sustainability as likely; and institutional development is rated as substantial.
The PCR is of good quality. As an innovative project and the first of its kind in the country,
an audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This documernt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wordd Bank authorizatlon.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJIECT CONIPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2212-HO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                  .......................          .......................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..................................... ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ... ......- 1 -
A. Project Identity ......................................- .  -
B. Project Background  ...................................  - I -
C. Project Objectives and Description .......................... -2-
D. Project Design and Organization ............................ - 3 -
E. Project Implementation  .... _         _ .......................- 4 -
Variations in Project Implementation  .      ..................... - 4 -
Parallel financing ....-. ..  ......  ..... ....  .........  -
Procurement ..................................... .- 5 -
Subprojects Preparation  ..      .......................  - 6 -
Project Risks .........................  - 7 -
F. Project Results  .........................  - 8 -
Approved Subprojects ..........................  8 -
Infrastructure Subprojects .......................... - 8 -
Basic Needs Subprojects .......................... - 8 -
Informal Sector Subprojects .........................    - 9 -
The Family Assistance Program (PRAF) .           ................... - 9 -
Living Standards Management Survey (LSMS) .            ............... - 9 -
FHIS' Macroeconomic Impact .         .........................  - 10 -
Employment ...........   I ...................... . 10 -
Institutional Impact ................    - 11 -
Poverty Alleviation  ....... ......................... - 11 -
Impact on Women .............. - 12 -
The Family Assistance Program (PRAF).            -..................  . 12 -
Environmental Impact  .      .............................   - 12 -
G. Project Sustainability ..................................  - 12 -
H. IDA Performance  ...................................   - 13 -
This report is based on the recommendations of an evaluation study of PRAF food coupons
program undertaken in November 1991 (Report No. 10488-HO) and on the findings of a
project completion mission, which visited Honduras in March 1994. The mission was
composed of Messrs./Mmes. A.M. Sant'Anna, Mission Leader, and M. Romero (CONS).
Messrs./Mmes.Messrs. de St. Antoine, Vinh Nguyen and B. Hyatt-Allen contributed to the
report at headquarters. Edilberto L. Segura (LA2DR) and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are the
Department Director and Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I. Borrower Performance                           . . . . .- 1 3 -
J. Project Relationship                        . .         .            .   - 13 -
K. Project Documentation and Data  .. . . . . . . ...            -             13 -
L. Lessons Learned . . ...                                       -            14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    - 17 -
A. Comments on Parts I and III .               . .........  .. - 17 -
B. IDA Performance    .-.......                                    ......  17 -
C. Borrower Performance            ..... .... ..... .. ....... - 18 -
D. IDA - Borrower Relationships  .   I.........  .-I .  .  .             .. . 19 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .               .     .............   ...   . . . - 20 -
1. Related Credits  .....                                   . .... .  .       . -20 -
2. Project Timetable ...................... ...                             .- 21 -
3. Credit Disbursements                            .                         - 22 -
4. Project Implementation: Indicators for FHIS Programs   ....                 23 -
5. Project Costs and Financing             .     .       .      ......... .- 23 -
A. Project Costs .....-..   23 -
B. Project Financing ..           .....  - 24 -
C. FHIS Financing ...                  .... - 24 -
D. Credit 2212-HO by Methods of Procurement  .         ......   - 24 -
E. Allocation of FHIS Investments by Type of Subproject (1990-
1993) .....     .  ..........................   - 25 -
F. Allocation of the Proceeds of Credit 2212-HO by Type of FHIS
Subproject    .....                                           - 25 -
G. FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index . .         ..         - 26 -
6. Project Results  ...             .       ... ..........  . 27 -
A. Direct Benefits ....            .....................  - 27 -
B. Studies                .                  e. ..      .,...        - 28 -
C. Audit Recommendations                            ... ... . .    - 29 -
7. Status of Covenants           ..................    - 30 -
8. Use of Bank Resources  ................................  - 30 -
A. Staff Inputs ............................ .....  - 30 -
B. Use of IDA Resources: Missions ..                                 - 31 -
BIBLIOGRAPHY ..    - 32 -



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2212-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Social Investment Fund Project in
Honduras, for which Credit 2212-HO in the amount of SDR 14.3 million (US$20 million
equivalent) was approved on February 28, 1991. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1994,
three months beyond the original schedule. The last disbursement was made on June 13, 1994.
The PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Operations Division of Department II
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower (Part 11, with significant contributions to Part III).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Association's final supervision mission
of the project in February 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports; mid-term project review; evaluation studies
prepared by the Borrower; correspondence between the Association and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2212-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I .   This project was the first social sector project that supported the Government of Honduras'
economic stabilization and adjustment program which started in March 1990. This program was
designed to correct distortions resulting from past macroeconomic mismanagement, and to lay
the foundation for sustained economic growth over the medium term.
2.   The Social Investment Fund Project was appraised in October 1990, approved by the
Board in February 1991, signed on March 14, 1991, and became effective on June 25, 1991.
At appraisal, total costs were estimated at US$68 million, of which US$20 million would be
financed by an IDA credit. Other contributions included US$33 million from donors, US$8
million from the Government of Honduras, and US$7 million from the project beneficiaries.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1994, three months beyond the original schedule, the last
disbursement was made on July 29, 1994, and the undisbursed balance of SDR 17,767 was
canceled in August 1, 1994.
Project Objectives
3.   The objectives of the project were to mitigate the social costs of adjustment, establish the
basis for a decentralized program of direct support for the poor and malnourished, and support
improvements of service delivery in the social ministries. The project was to meet these
objectives through implementation of four components: (a) financing of the Honduran Social
Investment Fund (FHIS); (b) supporting a pilot targeted nutrition assistance program carried out
by the Family Assistance Program (PRAF); (c) providing technical assistance to help design a
program for improving the efficiency and equity of the services of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and the Ministry of Education (MOE); and (d) establishing a monitoring and evaluation system
of the government's social policy interventions by using a Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS), administered by the Ministry of Planning (SECPLAN). The FHIS, which accounted
for 98.3 percent of total project cost, was established as a short-term mechanism to transfer
resources to poor urban and rural communities to: [i] create employment and income among the
poor segment of the population whose living conditions would be more severely affected by the
macroeconomic adjustment; [ii] improve social infrastructure, satisfy basic needs such as water
supply and sanitation, and promote microenterprises.
Implementation Experience
4.   The implementation of Credit 2212-HO complied with the Credit Agreement in its
fundamental aspects. FHIS exceeded appraisal expectations in mobilizing international support



iii
from  16 bilateral donors and international agencies.  Combined with national funds, the
additional external resources permitted a 65 percent expansion of the program as appraised.
5.   Minor variations were observed between actual and planned implementation:  (i) the
average size of subprojects financed by FHIS was smaller than planned (US$18,600 instead of
US$20,000); (ii) the average time required for subproject appraisal and execution was shorter
than expected, leading to faster credit disbursement; (iii) single-source contracting was the most
used method of procurement, reaching 68 percent of the total rather than 30 percent as
anticipated at appraisal.  Single-source contracting followed transparent albeit simplified
procurement guidelines, supported by a computerized cost control system and quarterly
concurrent audits which ensured least cost solutions and competitive subproject contract awards;
(iv) the contribution of beneficiaries to project financing was estimated at appraisal at US$7
million, or about 10 percent of the original project cost; actual contribution of beneficiaries was
made mostly in kind, and has not been monetized as part of the total project cost. Nevertheless,
it is estimated to account for an additional 12 percent of the cost of FHIS subprojects, and (v)
FHIS administrative costs, estimated at appraisal at 6.5 percent of total FHIS financed, averaged
8.1 percent during the 1990-1993 period, which is not excessive given the size and diversity of
its portfolio.
6.    Project implementation successfully overcame the risks identified at appraisal. Through
its subproject menu and resource allocation procedures, FHIS subprojects were well targeted,
benefitting more than proportionally the poorest communities.   Over time, subproject
sustainability improved through the creation of local water boards for operations and
maintenance of water supply and sanitation subprojects, local education and health committees
for the maintenance of schools and health centers, and community training for the use of latrines.
These programs were carried out by specialized non-government agencies (NGOs) working
under contract with FHIS. The risks of inadequate targeting and misuse of resources by the
PRAF pilot nutrition assistance program were also avoided; PRAF achieved the planned
coverage and complied with targeting criteria for the Maternal Child Food Coupon Program
(BMI), with positive impact on the nutrition status of the most vulnerable groups consisting of
pregnant and nursing women and children under five.
Project Results
7.   The results of the project can be assessed by focusing on the following aspects:
macroeconomic impact, employment and targeting, infrastructure, social services, institutional
impact, poverty alleviation, impact on women, and environmental impact. FHIS activities
during the 1990-1993 period resulted in the execution of 5,474 subprojects providing social and
economic infrastructure, basic needs and informal sector credit at a total cost of about US$97.2
million including administrative costs, compared with about US$66.8 million estimated at
appraisal. FHIS had a favorable impact on Honduras' macroeconomic indicators by contributing
to Government investment and direct employment. Following the economic crisis of the late
1980s, when investment in social infrastructure practically came to a halt, FHIS was able to
channel investments to small economic and social infrastructure which in 1992, amounted to 18
pe;cent of total Government's capital expenditures and 28.3 percent of direct government
investments. Direct employment generated by FHIS subprojects reached 59,000 job-years during
the 1990-1993 period, corresponding approximately to 12 percent of the estimated unemployed
and underemployed workers in 1991. Over 85 percent of the created employment related to the
construction of community facilities such as roads; education facilities such as repair of schools;
and health and sanitation facilities such as expansion of health centers and construction of water



iv
supply, latrines and sewage systems. Average wages paid under FHIS contracts ranged between
94 percent and 104 percent of the minimum construction wage. Because FHIS was able to
gradually increase its activities in areas of high incidence of poverty, tiere has been an increase
in the percentage of jobs in the poorer municipalities from 65 percent to 80 percent during the
1990-1993 period.
8.   The impact of FHIS subprojects has been significant, especially in meeting long neglected
social infrastructure needs. In the education sector, FHIS rehabilitated and/or expanded 2,708
schools, or 30 percent all primary and pre-primary school in the country and provided 360,836
school desks serving approximately 80 percent of all students enrolled in primary schools. In
the health sector, FHIS rehabilitated and/or expanded of 303 health centers, thus improving 32
percent of national health centers network, provided health services to about 37,121 persons, and
trained 14,788 community health providers, including most of the country's traditional
midwives. FHIS raised the coverage of safe water supply by 16 percent in rural and urban
areas, and practically eliminated basic sanitation deficit in urban and peri-urban (slum) areas
through the construction of 57,507 latrines and septic tanks, and 244 water and sewerage
subprojects. Through financing of 6,112 family gardens, 3,635 small livestock subprojects, and
over 100 maternal enterprises, FHIS contributed to improving food security and child nutrition
in rural areas. FHIS informal sector credit program supported the creation of 254 community
banks, benefitting 7,219 persons without access to credit and financed about 3,753 micro-
enterprises.
9.   The PRAF pilot nutrition assistance program tested the feasibility of distributing food
coupons targeted to groups at risk of malnutrition through primary health care centers and
primary schools. The pilot program was successfully implemented, benefitting 56,000 poor
pregnant and nursing women and children under five in 3 of 16 departments nationwide. it
provided the basis for an expanded nutrition assistance program which IDA is now supporting
under Credit 2452-HO (Nutrition and Health Project).
10.  The project has contributed to alleviating poverty and to improving the social and
economic conditions of women. Through FHIS subprojects and the pilot nutrition assistance
program of PRAF in particular, the project led to the creation of an effective safety-net for the
most vulnerable groups with insufficient incomes to buy the basic food basket. An important
aspect of the project impact on women has been the improvement of their access to credit and
productive activities, through participation in the FHIS informal sector credit program. Women
represent 53 percent of the beneficiaries of this program, accounting for 79 percent of
community banks' members and 63 percent of training program participants. Six of 21 NGOs
providing micro-credit with FHIS financing catered exclusively to women.
11.  The majority of FHIS subprojects have had neutral impact on the environment. Some
subprojects were designed to have a positive impact on the environment. These innovative
subprojects focused on restoration of historic monuments and support to indigenous communities.
FHIS water supply and sanitation subprojects improved environmental conditions in many rural
and poor urban areas, by reducing soil and water contamination through improved disposal of
waste water and human excreta, appropriate watershed management practices and provision of
sanitary land-fills, latrines and septic tanks.
12.  The FHIS program had a strong institutional impact. The high visibility, efficiency and
credibility of the program helped strengthen the government's capacity at both the central and
local levels. FHIS fostered inter-agency collaboration and instituted an effective mechanism for



v
coordination with the line ministries for investment planning and subprojects implementation.
FHIS also brought innovation to the style of governance and contributed to the process of
decentralizing government decision-making, by responding effectively to local demand for small
scale investments in several sectors, and by relying largely on the private sector for subprojects
implementation. As a result, FHIS strengthened the capacity of municipalities to promote,
prepare, supervise, execute and maintain small-scale investment projects. FHIS contributed to
the development of the private sector and NGOs, by actively engaging their participation in
subproject preparation, execution and supervision, thereby achieving excellent working relations
with NGOs and over 1,800 small private contractors.  Through FHIS contracts, many
individuals were able to grow and form private construction and consulting companies, and many
NGOs expanded the scope of their activities and improved service quality.  Thus, FHIS
succeeded in mobilizing additional private resources in aid of community development.
13.  The Living Standards Measurement Survey was developed, tested and incorporated as a
module of the multi-purpose annual household surveys conducted by SECPLAN; three such
surveys have been conducted, leading to improved data collection of social indicators and
providing useful statistics to measure the impact of the FHIS program. However, data analysis
is still less than satisfactory, and SECPLAN plans to strengthen its social indicators analysis unit,
to achieve the intended project objective of systematically monitoring the impact of targeted
government social programs.  The social sectors restructuring component, financed by a
Japanese Grant to Honduras, contributed to the preparation of the nutrition and health project
currently under implementation with IDA financing (Cr. 2452-HO).
14.  FHIS's operational policies ensured the sustainability of the subprojects it financed. In
the case of the expansion of schools and health centers, the assurances of staff appointments by
line ministries (Ministries of Education and Health) was a condition for approval of the
expansion subprojects. Similarly, in the case of water supply and sanitation subprojects, FHIS
required the creation of local water boards or special municipal units in charge of collection of
user fees and system operation and maintenance, as a condition for subproject approval. To
complement the construction of latrines, FHIS introduced an innovative program to train every
beneficiary household on how they should use and maintain the latrine to ensure sustainability.
To maintain continued efforts in this area, IDA recommended that FHIS, in cooperation with
line ministries and municipalities, carry out an operations and maintenance census of all
completed subprojects.  The results of this census would serve to identify additional measures
in support of subproject sustainability.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
15.  Integration with Macroeconomic Program. An important aspect of FHIS' success was that
it became an integral part of the Government's high priority economic policy; i.e., a social
program  to cushion the social costs of the economic adjustment program.  This policy
framework provided FHIS with sustained, high level political support and the budgetary
resources to start the program even before external financing could be mobilized. Strong
governmental support was combined with restraint from political intervention in the FHIS daily
operations.
16.  Management Autonomy and Operational Efficiency. Its semi-autonomous institutional
form allowed FHIS to adopt more efficient management and operational procedures than those
used in line ministries. Combined with a strong manager's leadership, usually coming from the
private sector, streamlined management procedures resulted in rapid disbursements and good



vi
quality subprojects. Implementation experience has shown that management efficiency could be
further strengthened, by enhancing the existing management information system (MIS) and
improving inter-departmental coordination within FHIS.
17.  Exception from Central Government Procurement and Salary Regulations. The special
Presidential Decree allowed FHIS to use simplified procurement procedures and to pay its staff
at competitive market rates. These two factors were instrumental in ensuring the efficiency of
FHIS, leading to a high volume of operations and accelerated disbursements without
compromising the quality of subprojects. These positive features need to be reinforced by
periodic reviews of the salary scale, integration of management information systems, continuous
attention to supervision of subprojects under execution, and improved evaluation of completed
subprojects.
18.  Simple and Effective Targeting and Promotion. FHIS allocated its funds transparently,
according to a poverty map and a set menu of subprojects which received ample publicity. This
system represents a significant improvement over traditional revenue-sharing formulas based
exclusively on population, since it allows for allocating additional resources proportionally to
the level of poverty in each municipality. For this targeting system to work effectively, FHIS
had to promote subproject proposals actively in the poorest municipalities where spontaneous
demand has been shown to be the lowest, due to its weaker organization and subprojects
preparation capacity compared with less poor communities. These special promotion efforts,
covering the 80 poorest municipalities, resulted in increases in the share of resources channeled
to the poorest communities, from 25 percent in 1990 to 45 percent in 1993.
19.  Coordination with Line Ministries. FHIS was established at a time when social sector
planning and implementation capacity was lacking in line ministries, and there was a large
backlog of schools and health clinics in disrepair throughout the country. Coordination between
FHIS and the line ministries ensured that appropriate staff (principally teachers and nurses) and
recurrent budgets would be available for the social infrastructure that FHIS would finance.
FHIS also ensured that the proposed subproject would fit within the overall priorities of the line
ministries. This level of coordination was appropriate, given FHIS' policy of not engaging in
new construction, but only in the rehabilitation or expansion of existing facilities. Closer
coordination would be required if FHIS evolves into a longer-term agency responsible for social
investments, including construction of new health and education facilities. Line ministries would
exercise their normative role in establishing sector policy priorities, and standards for new
infrastructure. Their construction departments would be redefined as smaller technical units
responsible for management of large scale projects, development of prototype designs, norms
and standards, supervision and support for local maintenance of school buildings and clinics
constructed with FHIS financing.
20.  Innovative Micro-Credit Pro2ram. With the intermediation of NGOs, FHIS has been
successful in using a small share of its resources (6.5 %) to finance innovative short-term credits
that benefitted small scale artisans and microentrepeneurs, without previous access to credit.
The design of the program takes advantage of FHIS' financing capacity and the NGOs
knowledge of the market, minimizing operating costs. FHIS lends to a few, highly experienced
NGOs, and these in turn screen potential borrowers and make small loans at market interest
rates, assuming the credit risks. The participating NGOs were gradually strengthened by clearly
established lending guidelines and technical assistance provided by FHIS. The loan recovery rate
exceeded 98 percent. The future development of this program is being analyzed with the goal



vii
of enlisting the support of commercial banks, and establishing the basis for a sustainable
revolving credit program without FHIS' continuous financial support.
21.  Importance of Technical Assistance. Technical assistance provided by UNDP and IDA
during project preparation and implementation, have contributed to the development of FHIS
operational procedures and helped sustain a process of continuous improvements in the program
during implementation.
22.  The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Program. The pilot nutrition program demonstrated that
distribution of food coupons is a more cost-effective means of providing nutrition assistance than
distribution of food in kind; that specific interventions should integrate into a broader nutritional
assistance policy, which includes periodic monitoring of the health/nutritional status of the
participants, and education and training of the beneficiaries in sound health and nutrition
behaviors and attitudes. By distributing food coupons through primary health care and education
facilities, the program generated greater demand for quality education and health services, and
more efficient use of health and education service facilities available at the local level, resulting
in broader and longer term health and education benefits to the beneficiaries.



- 1 -
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2212-HO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:             Social Investment Fund Project (FHIS-I)
Number:           Credit 2212-HO
RVP Unit:         LAC
Borrower:         Republic of Honduras
Executing
Agencies:         Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS),
Family Assistance Program (PRAF) and
National Planning Ministry (SECPLAN)
Sector:           Multiple
Amount:           SDR 14.3 million
(US$20 million equivalent)
Approval Date:    February 28, 1991
Signing Date:     March 14, 1991
Effectiveness
Date:             June 25, 1991
Closing Date:     Original: December 31, 1993
Revised: March 31, 1994
B. Project Background
1.    This report provides information on the Honduran Social Investment Fund Project,
Credit 2212-HO (FHIS-I), which was closed on March 31, 1994. Since the original FHIS
project was significantly expanded as a result of additional financial contributions from various
sources, this report considers the FHIS operations as a whole during the 1990-1993 period,
rather than only the subprojects financed under Credit 2212-HO.
2.    In March 1990, the Government of Honduras adopted a package of stabilization and
adjustment measures which were expected to produce an uneven impact on various sectors of
the economy, urban and rural and richer and poorer populations. These measures, including the
liberalization of the exchange rate and agricultural prices, increase in public service rates, and
reduction of public sector employment, were expected to have short-term negative impact on the
real income of the country's poorest families, risking a deterioration of health and nutrition
indicators, especially among poor pregnant and nursing women and among children under age
five. Recognizing these short term effects of adjustment and the need to reduce the country's
chronic poverty levels, the Government adopted in the early 1990s, a social safety net strategy
consisting of two programs: the FHIS, to finance small scale, labor-intensive economic and
social infrastructure, social services and informal sector subprojects; and the PRAF, to provide
nutritional assistance through food coupons to the country's most vulnerable groups.
Recognizing the efforts of the Honduran government to undertake a bold program of economic



- 2 -
reforms, the Bank released the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment Loan 1. In June
1990, a financial package of US$250 million to clear multilateral arrears was negotiated.
Lending was resumed in September 1990, initially on IBRD terms andi subsequently exclusively
on IDA terms. A Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-II) of US$20 million was approved
in September 1990, and the first tranche was disbursed in November 1990. In light of the
impact of higher oil prices and export earnings loss resulting from a strike of banana workers
in July 1990, IDA approved a US$20 million equivalent Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to
supplement the financing provided under SAL II. Sector Adjustment Credits include one for the
energy sector in the amount of US$50.6 million, approved in October 1991, and one for the
agricultural sector in the amount of US$1 10 million, approved in August 1993.
C. Project Objectives and Description
3.     To support the Government's social sector strategy, IDA approved Credit 2212-HO in
February 1991, for the equivalent of US$20 million to finance the Social Investment Fund
Project. The project's objectives were to mitigate the social costs of adjustment, establish the
foundation for a decentralized program to directly assist poor groups at risk of malnutrition, and
to support the improvement of services provided by social ministries.
4.     The above objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of four project
components: (a) financing of FHIS subprojects (98.3 percent of total project cost); (b) support
for a targeted nutritional assistance pilot program, to be implemented by PRAF (0.6 percent of
total project cost); (c) technical assistance to improve the services provided by the Ministries of
Health and Education (0.6 percent of total project cost); and (d) the setting up of a monitoring
and evaluation system of the government's social policy interventions through the use of a Living
Standards Measurement Survey, to be implemented by SECPLAN (0.5 percent of total project
cost).
(a)    The Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS). FHIS was established as a
temporary autonomous entity under the Presidency, by Congressional Decree
No. 12-90 on February 22, 1990. Its objective was to provide temporary
employment for the poorest group of society most adversely affected by the
economic crisis and adjustment process, and improve the delivery of basic social
services at the community level. FHIS was designed to rapidly and effectively
finance poverty alleviation-oriented small-scale subprojects designed and carried
out by a variety of entities at local levels. The menu of eligible subprojects
consisted of small scale economic and social infrastructure works, such as
construction, expansion and rehabilitation of water supply, sewerage, health
posts, schools, drainages and roads; basic needs subprojects, such as provision
of health, nutrition and training services, support to the elderly and street
children, construction of school desks, establishment of family vegetable gardens
and small livestock farms; and small-scale credits to informal sector workers and
microenterprises.  In its expenditure plan, FHIS  expected to allocate
approximately 65 percent of its funds to support infrastructure subprojects, 20
percent to social services, 6 percent to informal sector credit, 2 percent for
institutional strengthening, and 7 percent for administrative costs.
(b)    The Nutritional Assistance Pilot Program.  This pilot nutrition assistance
program designed to test a Maternal Child Coupon Program (BMI), aimed at
ensuring a minimum level of nutrition to poor pregnant and nursing mothers and



- 3 -
children under age five who were at risk of malnutrition. This program would
complement and improve the PRAF Women Head of Household Coupon
Program (BMJF) created in March 1990, to assist pooi primary school children
in the seven departments. The BMI food coupons would be distributed monthly
to poor mothers and children attending health checkups at health posts and
centers in specified selected poor areas in two departments. Thus, the program
would be self-targeted and would combine nutrition assistance with maternal and
child health care.
(c)    Social Sector Restructuring Program. This component would provide technical
assistance financed by a grant from the Government of Japan, to help the
Government prepare a social sector restructuring program. The program would
improve the allocation and use of resources in the social sectors, strengthen the
implementation capacity of the line ministries, and design a sector project for
eventual IDA and IDB financing.
(d)    Living Standards Measurement Survey. Technical assistance provided under this
component, would help the Government develop a system to monitor and
evaluate its social policy interventions, through the use of a Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS). It would also help to evaluate the operations of
FHIS through a survey of communities and individuals benefitted by FHIS
subprojects, that would serve as a basis for an impact study of the program.
The component would be implemented by SECPLAN's General Statistical Office
(DGE), in conjunction with its Multiple Purpose Permanent Household Survey
(MHS).
D. Proiect Desi2n and Oreanization
5.     FHIS subprojects were prepared and requested by a variety of agencies, including
municipal governments, line ministries and agencies, NGOs, local associations, and community
groups. Evaluation of subproject proposals by FHIS was based on sectoral programming
priorities, target population, labor and materials content, counterpart financing, unit costs,
technical viability, estimated social and economic benefits, and assurances of sustainability based
on satisfactory operations and maintenance provisions. Using these criteria, FHIS's Operations
Committee evaluated and approved subproject proposals, publicized the list of approved
subprojects, and signed tripartite contracts for subproject execution with the contractor and the
sponsoring agency. Subprojects were executed by private contractors or NGOs supervised by
FHIS or externally contracted supervisors.  FHIS disbursements against contracts were
contingent on satisfactory reports from field inspections of each subproject.
6.     Procurement regulations approved for FHIS departed both from standard IDA procedures
and Honduran Government procedures, allowing non-competitive contracting for contracts under
US$35,000, on the basis of unit prices controlled by FHIS and approved by IDA. Contracts of
US$35,000 to US$70,000, were awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from
at least three qualified contractors. Competitive bidding, advertised locally, was used for civil
works contracts of $70,000 to US$500,000, and for goods contracts of $250,000 or less. Civil
works contracts above US$500,000 and goods contracts in excess of US$250,000 would have
been procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), but there were no such large
contracts.



- 4 -
7.     FHIS staff gradually increased in response to the program's growth requirements,
starting with 65 people in 1990 and reaching 230 managerial, technical and administrative
personnel in 1993. Annual staff increases are considered reasonable for the work performed.
On average, administrative costs represented about 8.1 percent of FHIS's subprojects's
disbursements, which is also sound, given the volume and diversity of its operations. All staff
were based in Tegucigalpa, which is sound, given the good quality of roads and ease of access
to most subprojects.  FHIS' internal organization is led by an Executive Director with
Ministerial rank, and consists of five departments: projects, supervision, administration, data
processing, and external financing. In addition, there are legal and internal audit units. The
FHIS has a Board which approves general policies and rules of operation, approves the annual
budget, and authorizes FHIS to contract external financing. The Board meets quarterly, and is
composed of nine members including the President of the Republic (Chairman), the President
of Congress, the Ministers of Planning, Finance and Labor, and representatives of the private
sector cooperatives and NGOs, and FHIS Executive Director. FHIS subprojects are approved
by its Operations Committee which includes the Directors of Projects, Administration, External
Financing, Supervision Departments, and Legal Counsel.
8.     The implementation of the LSMS was the responsibility of SECPLAN and the FHIS
worked in close collaboration with that agency to prepare its impact study. The social sector
restructuring program was executed by the Social Cabinet Executive Secretariat (SCES) with
financing from a Japanese Government grant, and its activities contributed to the preparation of
a Nutrition and Health Project, partly financed by IDA Credit 2452-HO.
E. Project Implementation
9.     Variations in Project Implementation. The implementation of Credit 2212-HO complied
with the Credit Agreement in its fundamental aspects. The largest variations between actual
implementation and the plan presented in the President's Memorandum comprised: (a) the target
for external funding, (b) total project cost, (c) methods of procurement used, (d) financial
contribution from  project beneficiaries, (e) the closing date.  FHIS was able to mobilize
significantly more external funds than anticipated. At appraisal, the target for external funding
for the FHIS program was set at US$48.7 million, including IDA financing, a figure considered
ambitious at the time (Table 5.C.). By December 1993, total external funding approved for the
FHIS program reached US$84.3 million, an increase of 73.1 percent over appraisal estimates.
As a result, the share of project cost financed by Credit 2212-HO declined from 29.4 percent
to 20.3 percent. The principal sources of additional external financing for the FHIS program
included a second IDA credit (Credit 2401-HO) of US$7.4 million equivalent, a loan from the
IDB of US$24 million and loans and grants from the Government of Germany in the amount of
US$16.5 million equivalent. Actual project cost at US$98.4 million (see Table 5.A.), exceeded
appraisal estimates of US$68.0 million by about 45 percent. Cost increases are primarily due
to the 73 percent expansion of FHIS subprojects coupled with an 80 percent increase in FHIS
administrative costs, which were incurred as a result of the larger and more complex portfolio
administered by the Fund. No significant changes were observed in the cost of the other
components compared to appraisal estimates, except that costs incurred for monitoring and
evaluation were not registered by FHIS separately from administrative costs. The rate of credit
disbursement was faster than expected, especially during the second year of project
implementation (FY92), justifying the preparation of a second IDA operation to support the
expansion of the program (Table 3). Higher than expected use of single-source contracting by
FHIS, resulted in a four-fold increase in the planned aggregated amount financed by Credit
2212-HO under this method of procurement (Table 5.D.). Project supervision reports and



quarterly external audits confirm that funds were used properly by FHIS and that the contracting
process was efficient and competitive.  The financial contribution by project beneficiaries,
expected at appraisal to reach US$6.6 million, or 9.8 percent of the cust of the FHIS program,
are estimated at 12 percent of FHIS subproject cost. However, as the beneficiaries contributed
mostly in kind and their contribution was not monetized, FHIS financial records do not show
the financial participation of beneficiaries. Finally, the closing date was extended by three
months, from December 31, 1993 to March 31, 1994, to compensate for delays in completing
subproject disbursements which had been interrupted during the period of transition to a new
national administration.
10.   Other variations between actual implementation and the plan include 7 percent lower
average size of FHIS subprojects (US$18,650) compared to appraisal estimates (US$20,000).
This is actually a small difference. One reason is that few contract revisions were required to
cover additional work or cost overruns: actual contract revisions averaged only about 4 percent
of the amounts originally approved. Lower average subproject cost also resulted from quicker
subproject processing and execution by FHIS. By the end of December 1993, the time required
for project approval was reduced to one month and the average execution period was about five
months.
11.    FHIS administrative costs excluding technical assistance, exceeded appraisal estimates
by approximately 1.6 percent totalling US$7.9 million (Table 5.A.) or 8.1 percent of program
disbursements as of December 31, 1993, compared with 6.5 percent estimated at appraisal for
a smaller size program. The slight increase was mainly due to the fact that, as the program
grew in scope and complexity, more resources were needed for quality control and subproject
promotion and supervision than had been anticipated. The operating cost of 8.1 percent is
comparable with the range of 7-10 percent which is the actual administrative costs of other social
investment funds in Latin America.
12.   IDA and the UNDP played a decisive role in supporting the start-up of the FHIS by
helping establish methodologies, procedures and management systems for resource allocation,
subproject evaluation, approval and monitoring, and procurement. These contributed to the
positive results and credibility achieved by FHIS early on in project implementation, and
facilitated the participation of other multilateral and bilateral donors in financing the FHIS
program.
13.   Parallel financing. FHIS mobilized external financing from 16 sources, as well as from
the Honduran Government, totalling US$97.2 million (Table 5.C.) during the 1990-1993 period,
well beyond original expectations (para. 9). The main sources of financing were IDA (26.6
percent), the IDB (24.7 percent), the Government of Germany (17.0 percent), and the Honduran
Government (13.3 percent). Approximately 18.4 percent of the cost of FHIS operations was
financed by other donors. The contribution from beneficiaries is estimated at about 12 percent
of total subproject costs, but has not been computed since, in many cases, it was made in kind.
14.   Procurement.  For civil works contracts below US$35,000, FHIS used simplified
contracting procedures agreed on with IDA. Small contracts were negotiated between FHIS and
a private contractor based on a unit price costing system consisting of a schedule of standard
prices for completion of different tasks in various types of subprojects. These prices were
periodically adjusted by region. On the basis of the standard cost determined as a function of
unit prices, plus an additional 15 percent for overhead and profit, FHIS fixed a non-negotiable
price for awarding small contracts. This system permitted the agency to use procurement



- 6 -
procedures that were simpler than those of the Honduran Government, and ensured transparent
and cost-effective administration of direct contracting procedures. Contracts over US$35,000
and up to US$500,000 for civil works and $250,000 for goods, were awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally (LCB). There were no larger contracts that would have
been awarded by international competitive bidding (ICB). The procurement practices approved
for FHIS were simple and efficient and proved to work satisfactorily.
15.    A total of 5,474 contracts were financed by FHIS during the 1990-1993 period, one for
each subproject. Civil works and service contracts were awarded to 1,864 private contractors
and 406 other executors, including municipalities and NGOs (para. 32). Only a few non-
infrastructure subprojects were executed directly by government agencies. The incidence of
problem contracts was minimal, and very few (4 percent of the amount financed) experienced
adjustment to the original amount during execution. Considering subprojects financed under
Credit 2212-HO, LCB contracts totalled about US$5.4 million or 27 percent of the total, single-
source contracting accounted for US$13.5 million or 67.5 percent of the total, and consultants,
training and auditing contracts accounted for US$1.1 million or 5.5 percent of the total. The
distribution of the proceeds of the credit by method of procurement was estimated at appraisal
to be: 4 percent under ICB, 53.5 percent under LCB, 28 percent under other forms of
procurement (local shopping and single-source contracting), and 14.5 percent under consulting
and training contracts (Table 5.D.). The larger variation from appraisal estimates observed
under single-source contracting is counterbalanced by the fact that FHIS procurement
performance satisfactorily ensured least cost solutions under no-bidding contracts through its
systems of unit cost controls and concurrent quarterly audits.
16.    As a result of much more frequent use of direct contracting method of procurement than
originally planned, project implementation deviated markedly from the norms established in the
Development Credit Agreement (Schedule 3, Part C, Para. 2), which provided for a maximum
aggregated amount of US$4 million in direct contracting to be financed from the proceeds of the
credit. In fact, approximately US$13.5 million of the credit proceeds was used to finance direct
contracting.
17.    Subproiects Preparation. FHIS' operating scheme is clearly established with manuals
for all of its activities. These manuals are made up of several parts covering the functions of
administration, promotion, appraisal, and supervision in the various sectors financed by the
FHIS. All manuals were reviewed extensively and found satisfactory to IDA. These manuals
are used regularly in all operational aspects of the subprojects, and are amended where necessary
to fit changing conditions. Resource allocation criteria, based on a poverty map using population
and a poverty index, were used to target projects that were evaluated using social, technical, and
economic criteria. Although more resources went to the poorer communities, the middle class
communities also received a sizeable share of the Fund, because there were poor people in these
areas. A one percent increase in the poverty index implied a US$0.14 increase in the allocation
of funds. It was sometimes difficult to achieve this target, particularly in the early phase of
FHIS, since poorer municipalities had less capacity to prepare subprojects.
18.    Subproject execution was thoroughly monitored, and subprojects were inspected by FHIS
supervisors before and during execution, as well as at completion. FHIS was audited quarterly
by external independent auditors who found that exceptions decreased over the life of
subprojects. These audits combined financial reviews as well as physical inspection of works
in the field. FHIS's success in fully implementing corrective actions to audit exceptions resulted
in a sharp decline of audit exceptions in 1993 compared to the 1991-1992 period (Table 6.C.).



Subproject execution was enhanced by a good working relationship between FHIS, line
ministries and other agencies, resulting from its coordinated efforts to follow their technical
norms and standards in its projects, informing the relevant ministry or agency by fax of their
proposal to appraise a project and giving them limited time to comment, then proceeding if no
comment was received in the stated timeframe; and meeting with them periodically to review
their respective pipeline of projects. The line ministries and agencies were satisfied that FHIS
operated within their overall objectives and plans, achieving a high level of interagency
coordination which did not delay subproject implementation.
19.    Project Risks. One of the risks identified at appraisal relates to effectiveness of FHIS
in targeting resources to the poorest localities and eventual loss in subproject quality due to
excessively rapid execution.  Implementation experience demonstrated that FHIS targeting
performance was good and improved over time.  Expenditures in subprojects located in
municipalities classified as being "poor and very poor" increased from 26 percent of the total
in 1990 to 40 percent in 1993. About 68 percent of the amount financing subprojects located
in the capital district and San Pedro Sula, proved to benefit groups classified as being "poor and
very poor."  Project quality remained satisfactory albeit the rapid pace of implementation, as
indicated by quarterly audit reports, and field inspection of completed projects by FHIS and IDA
supervision mission. FHIS targeting performance was enhanced by its efficient information
system to monitor that subproject approvals complied with poverty guidelines, prompt response
to recommendations made in the mid-term review and external audits; close supervision of
subproject execution; and FHIS's special efforts to promote subproject preparation in extremely
poor communities.
20.    The additional risk raised at appraisal was the possible lack of sustainability of FHIS-
financed subprojects.   FHIS  succeeded in reducing this risk by establishing adequate
operations and maintenance arrangements, such as local water boards to administer water and
sewerage subprojects, community maintenance committees to care for schools and health
facilities, and training programs to teach families how to use and maintain latrines. Specialized
NGOs were contracted by FHIS to provide required technical assistance and training to local
groups. While more efforts need to be made both by FHIS and the Government in this respect,
measures taken by FHIS to ensure sustainability, notably of water and sanitation subprojects,
have served as a good example in the design of other social investment fund projects financed
by the Bank/IDA. In order to improve subproject sustainability, more attention must be given
to strengthening the financial capacity of the municipalities, to enable their taking-over of
maintenance and operation functions of completed FHIS subprojects.
21.    The risks of eventual poor design, targeting and implementation performance of the pilot
nutritional assistance program did not materialize. The pilot program succeeded in reaching the
target population of mothers and children most at risk of malnutrition. Also, the administrative
costs were substantially lower than those of nutrition assistance programs distributing food in
kind (administrative costs were 7 percent, compared with 25 percent to 40 percent overhead for
food in kind). The design of the pilot program provided for the distribution of food coupons
through health centers. This proved to be efficient as it was a self-targeted program, since only
poor mothers and children attend health centers. The program had a positive impact on the
income levels of beneficiary families who were able to purchase more food and improve their
nutrition. The program also produced a significant increase in the use of health services by the
beneficiaries, which contributed to improving their health status.



F. Project Results
22.    The allocation of FHIS resources by subproject type differed from the allocations
estimated at appraisal as follows: infrastructure subproject absorbed 76 percent of the funds
compared to 71 percent anticipated at appraisal; basic needs subprojects 18 percent of compared
to 22 percent; and the informal sector credit program 6 percent compared to 7 percent expected
at appraisal. These differences are small and reflect actual demand trends expressed by
subproject proposals submitted to FHIS. They also show that good estimates were made at
appraisal.
23.    Approved Subproiects. As of December 31, 1993, 5,474 projects had been approved,
totalling the equivalent of US$97.2 million, including administrative costs, and 4,482 of these
projects (82 percent) are already completed (see Table 4). They helped create over 140,000 jobs
in the 3-year period. The proceeds of Credit 2212-HO (FHIS-1) were used to finance 1,377
subprojects totalling the equivalent of US$18.6 million, which created 36,415 direct jobs,
representing 25 percent of all subprojects approved, and 25 percent of total jobs created. All
projects financed under Credit 2210-HO were completed by March 31, 1994, and the last
disbursement is expected to take place by June 20, 1994.  Between 1990-1993, approvals
increased by 66.1 percent per year, and disbursements by 173.2 percent.  Half of all
disbursements for this period were made in 1993. The economic and financial impact of these
subprojects have not been calculated, nevertheless, the largest impact (76 percent) represents
improved community infrastructure.  Overall, approximately one-third of basic community
services have been improved, including expanded access to nutrition, water and sewerage.
24.   Infrastructure Subproiects. FHIS disbursed US$67.6 million equivalent (see Table 5.E.)
between 1990-1993 in 4,480 economic and social infrastructure projects which created 120,771
direct jobs. The allocation of resources from various donors followed the established FHIS
operational guidelines. However, some donors restricted funding to some types of subprojects.
For example, KfW financed only infrastructure subprojects. Credit 2212-HO helped finance 19.3
percent of infrastructure investment, accounting for 25.3 percent of the jobs created. IDA-
financed subprojects included construction, expansion and repair of schools and health centers,
roads and streets, irrigation and drainage works, water supply and sewer systems, community
facilities and maintenance of historic ruins and monuments. The results obtained on FHIS
infrastructure subprojects are summarized as follows: (a) in education, 2,708 schools and child
care centers (36 percent of the total) were rehabilitated or expanded; (b) in health, 303 health
centers (30 percent of the total) were rehabilitated or expanded; 244 water supply and sewer
systems were built, as were 57,507 latrines and septic tanks (see Table 6.A.). Sample results
from quarterly audits and Bank supervision mission indicated that most subprojects were in good
operating and maintenance condition, one or two years after completion. However, FHIS will
undertake a census of completed projects with assistance from RUTA Social, to quantify this
important aspect of its operations.
25.    Basic Needs Subprojects. During the review period, 936 basic needs projects were
approved, totalling disbursements of US$16.4 million (see Table 5.E.), and creating 7,777
temporary and permanent jobs.  Credit 2212-HO  financed 255 basic needs subprojects,
representing 17 percent of total financing, and 19.5 percent of the jobs created. The funds
invested allowed 6,112 family and community gardens and 3,635 small-scale family and
community farms to be implemented, provided 37,021 people with health programs, 14,788
people with health training programs, and financed the production of 360,836 double school



desks, serving the requirements of about 82 percent of Honduras' primary students.  This
program has been well-focused, since the country's 118 poorest municipalities have received 100
percent of planned financing. Relatively little is known about the impact and sustainability of
these basic needs subprojects, and that will be a matter of special attention in the planned
subproject census (para 24).
26.   Informal Sector Subprojects. Between 1990-1993, FHIS approved 56 projects to support
the informal sector, totalling US$5.10 million in disbursement, and creating 12,950 jobs. Credit
2212-HO financed 11 informal credit subprojects representing 23.8 percent of the amount
disbursed and 33 percent of the jobs created. The reimbursable credit system, was administered
with the assistance of NGOs. Its implementation resulted in the establishment of 254 community
banks with 7,219 direct participants and the financing of 3,753 small businesses in the areas of
production, commerce and services, The informal sector support program has had the greatest
relative effect on the creation of permanent jobs and has had numerous, positive socioeconomic
effects on beneficiaries, including increased investments in fixed assets, increased levels of
savings, replacement of part of the credit provided by traditional money lenders at usurious rates,
improved living conditions for families, and strengthening of grassroots organizations. Also
positive was the institutional strengthening of NGOs achieved through non-reimbursable technical
assistance grants, the training programs that were implemented, and the close supervision of the
NGOs' efficiency.
27.    The Family Assistance Program (PRAF). The distribution of food coupons to poor
mothers and children under age five (BMI), administered by PRAF, was a success. At the end
of the first year of project operations, the BMI had reached its established goal of 56,000 mothers
and children under age five; 40 percent of beneficiaries lived in rural areas, 6 percent more than
planned; the BMI, which distributed food coupons through the network of health centers, served
an estimated 13 percent of nutritionally disadvantaged poor children under age five and pregnant
and nursing mothers nation-wide by financing an estimated 20 percent of the cost of their
minimum nutritional requirements. It brought about an increase in preventive care visits to health
centers of over 150 percent in the annual growth rate registered between 1990-1993. Based on
the success with this pilot nutrition assistance program, IDA financed the expansion of the
program under the Nutrition and Health project with Credit 2452-HO for $25 million equivalent.
In addition to the BMI pilot program, the PRAF's BMJF program, which distributed food
coupons through primary schools, has also tested an effective method for transferring income to
poor families, and has served 120,899 beneficiaries, 57 percent of whom live in rural areas.
Enrollments increased by over 25 percent in schools in which these benefits were distributed.
The BMJF also served 57 percent of nutritionally disadvantaged children between grades one and
three by financing 17 percent of the cost of their minimum nutritional requirements.
28.    Living Standards Management Survey (LSMS).  To meet the objectives of this
component, the General Office of Statistics and Census (DGEC) included a living standards
survey, consisting basically of a household consumption module and questions pertaining to
access to basic health and education services, in its ongoing household survey. By December
1993, this survey had been conducted three times, and was used in a sampling of FHIS
beneficiaries. Funds from Credit 2212-HO were used for staff training, consultants and purchase
of computer equipment. FHIS' impact measurement unit has completed a study on the program's
impact, which concludes that Honduras' public sector has been modernized by efficiently
managed social investments, although it is difficult to distinguish FHIS' contributions from other
institutions, since some of the projects occurred simultaneously. The results of a public opinion
poll showed that FHIS had distinguished itself from the governmental system, and that people



- 10 -
considered it to be bipartisan, and would like its continued operation regardless of the political
party in power. Approximately 82.4 percent of those surveyed said they would like to be
involved in future projects, and 62.6 percent said they would volunteer. The study also showed
that FHIS' primary emphasis was to support education and health, with secondary emphasis on
training and microenterprises.  The FHIS had compensated against the adverse effects of
economic adjustment and helped to identify priorities and increase community participation,
thereby increasing the participation of the municipalities who formulated and executed the
projects. Finally, the study recommended an improvement in the promotion, execution and
supervision of projects, a redesign of the poverty map at the local level to target social investment
which will identify community needs still unmet, and an increase in support to reinforce
institutions at the local level, and to provide training for better management of resources.
SECPLAN will continue to measure the living conditions of the population by means of
household surveys and through its social indicators unit.
29.    FHIS has contributed to enhancing public support for government's adjustment programs
at the local level. The perception of FHIS was gauged by a public opinion survey conducted in
May 1993, which found that 72 percent of the population nationwide had a favorable opinion of
the FHIS, and only 10 percent expressed a negative opinion. The approval rating of the FHIS
was higher in the poorest departments than the national average, as, for example, 80 percent in
El Parafso and 79 percent in Copan. The March 1993 national household survey, reported that
40.7 percent of the households surveyed had directly participated in FHIS subprojects; 22 percent
of households reported had at least one member who received training in connection with a FHIS
subproject; this figure increased to 37 percent among the poorest households. Among those who
participated as paid workers, the majority worked as laborers (65 percent). Overall, 82 percent
of the hotiseholds surveyed indicated that they would be willing to participate in future FHIS
subprojects .
30.    FHIS' Macroeconomic  Impact.   FHIS  had  a favorable  impact on  Honduras'
macroeconomic indicators by contributing to Government investment and direct employment.
The volume of investments channelled by FHIS during the period has been significant. After the
economic crisis of the late 1980s, when investments in social infrastructure virtually stopped,
FHIS was able to channel investments to small economic and social infrastructure which
represented 4.6 percent of public sector FIBCF in 1990, and 11.2 percent in 1992, and accounted
for 4.9 percent of Central Government capital expenditures in 1990, and 18 percent in 1992. At
constant prices of 1978, FHIS contributed to raising Honduras's total gross domestic fixed capital
formation (FIBCF) from 1.2 percent to 5.2 percent between 1990 and 1992.
31.    Employment. Although project design did not establish targets for employment creation
by FHIS, subprojects generated a total of 141,519 jobs of approximately 5-month duration, or
the equivalent of 59,000 job-years between 1990-1993 (paras. 24, 25 and 26 indicate the number
of jobs created by each type of subproject). This may be modest in relation to the size of the
labor force in Honduras, but represents approximately 12 percent of the unemployed and
underemployed workers affected by the economic crisis in the early 1990s. Over 85% of the
employment created by FHIS was in construction. Some of these jobs can be considered
permanent in so far as workers trained in one subproject reported continuing to work with the
same contractor on additional subprojects. Assuming an indirect employment impact equivalent
of 112 times the direct employment, the multiplier effect of FHIS subprojects has been
significant.



- 11 -
32.    Institutional Impact. The institutional impact of the FHIS program between 1990-1993
is evidenced by the growing credibility of the Government, FHIS has also attained increasing
international prestige and credibility, as evidenced by contributions and loans received from other
governments and multilateral agencies and visits from other countries to observe FHIS'
experience and the operating systems it has created. Also, FHIS contributed to institutional
development and strengthening of local organizations. This was achieved by mobilizing about
2,270 executors, including 1,864 (82A1 percent) private contractors (890 professional contractors,
370 foremen, 54 local consultants, and 550 private executors of different types, such as local
organizations); 291 (12.8 percent) municipalities; 90 (4.0 percent) NGO's; and 25 (1.1 percent)
government agencies.
33.    A second significant institutional impact is the achievement of mechanisms for active
coordination and joint planning with line ministries and other government agencies. These
mechanisms have allowed FHIS to execute a large share of the Government's overall budget for
small investments in various sectors, especially in health and education sectors, where
coordination was timely, ensuring sustainability and maintenance, provision of inputs, and
preparation of criteria for subproject evaluation and monitoring.  Coordination with line
ministries was very timely in the case of the Ministry of Education, where the existence of
teachers was required in the case of school repairs or expansion. Coordination with the Ministry
of Health was more extensive, especially with respect to the midwife and latrine projects in which
FHIS worked closely with the Ministry of Health. By providing continuous support and service
to municipal mayors, through approval of municipality sponsored, implemented or supervised
subprojects, FHIS helped strengthen the institutional capacity of municipalities. For example,
some 80 of a total of 291 municipalities nation-wide now have engineers as permanent staff to
plan and supervise small investment projects.
34.    In addition, FHIS has developed excellent working and cooperative relationships with
NGOs which implement subprojects using FHIS' clear operational manuals and transparent
procurement system. The effective strengthening of these organizations was supported through
non-reimbursable contributions for operating expenses, provision of training, technical assistance,
direct contracting for specific research, and monitoring of various FHIS programs. Private
enterprises in the construction industry and general consulting also benefitted significantly from
FHIS programs, many of them growing from a one-person operation to a small firm, as a result
of their participation in FHIS subprojects.
35.    Poverty Alleviation. The project made a significant contribution to poverty alleviation,
as shown in the employment impact, and in the improved access to basic social services in poor
areas. In addition, as indicated in paragraph 19, FHIS has been improving the focus of its
activities in the poorest areas. Attention paid to the poorest quintile (index of extreme poverty)
increased each year; relative attention in terms of the number of subprojects approved was highest
in 1993, doubling that of 1990 (Table 5.G.). Efforts have also been made to meet the needs of
those living in extreme poverty in metropolitan areas.
36.    The success of the coverage and effects of the nutritional assistance program (PRAF), as
indicated in paragraph 4, are important achievements in the fight against poverty. Also, the
informal sector small credit program helped reduce the poverty levels, by increasing assets and
earnings capacity among informal sector works. More studies will be necessary to gauge the
program's long-term impact and to make a comprehensive assessment of its effects. Similarly,
the living standards study should be repeated; this study should make systematic, annual
measurements of changes in living standards brought about by the Government's social programs.



- 12 -
37.   Impact on Women.  FHIS' basic needs program has assigned priority attention to
subprojects for midwife training, small-scale farms and family gardens, maternal-child care,
which basically focussed on women in general and particularly on female heads of households
(37 percent of heads of households living in poverty), to improve their personal welfare as well
as that of their families and the community. Twenty-nine (29) midwife training subprojects were
financed, benefitting 4,632 midwives, 700 auxiliary nurses and 100 nurses, 7 basic health training
subprojects had 14,788 beneficiaries, primarily women; and 8 community health projects
benefitted 40,489 persons, primarily women.
38.    Under the Informal Sector Subproject Program (PASI), 53 percent of all small business
credits granted by NGOs were for women, while in the case of community banks, 79 percent of
beneficiaries were women. Community banks are established and operated by women who are
already self-employed or are interested in starting a new business, in which they have at least one
year of experience. Under the guidance of a FINCA (NGO) representative, the women elect
officers, learn bookkeeping and banking procedures, and are entirely responsible for their banking
operations. The capital of a community bank consists of a loan from FINCA at market rates, and
savings from the participating women. Members of the community bank must repay their loan
and add to their savings, on a weekly basis. rThe average loan is US$60 and repayment rates
averaged 98 percent. As a result of the operation of community banks, some 1,480 women (20
percent of all members) experienced a 40 percent increase in sales in less than two years, and a
42 percent increase in earnings, which they used to increase their working capital and improve
their families' living conditions. These women have generated significant savings that are
expected to allow them access to commercial banking services. Six of the 21 NGOs participating
in the PASI program had the exclusive objective of assisting women. Finally, 63 percent of
participants in training programs are women.
39.    The Family Assistance Program (PRAF). To assist with the risk of malnutrition, PRAF
is aimed at assisting women and children under age five, as well as poor school children in
grades I to 3, and has served the population indicated in paragraph 27.
40.    Environmental Impact. FHIS ensured that subprojects financed did not cause adverse
environmental impacts or affect indigenous cultures negatively. Subprojects on restoration of
historic monuments; support to indigenous communities; provision of sanitary landfills, latrines
and septic tanks have had positive environmental impact. However, additional work to resolve
the final disposal from sanitary sewer construction subprojects should be implemented to
minimize negative environmental impact. Most of the other subprojects that were financed,
especially those dealing with infrastructure, may be classified as environmentally neutral.
G. Project Sustainability
41.    FHIS has made significant efforts to ensure the sustainability of its subprojects. FHIS
requires confirmation by the line ministries that teaching and nursing positions have been filled
or budgeted, and that the corresponding ministries have created budgets for recurrent
expenditures, before construction of new schools or health centers is approved. It also requires
the collection of user-fees by water committees or the municipality to ensure maintenance of
water and sewerage systems financed by FHIS. It has hired specialized NGOs to carry out
monitoring and training in the use and maintenance of latrines. Support for FHIS-financed
projects needs to be strengthened and monitored because there is evidence of insufficient funds
available for maintenance and supplies for schools and health centers, and improper use and lack
of maintenance of drinking water and latrines in some localities.



- 13 -
42.    Project sustainability has also been sought through careful selection of NGOs with
experience in the respective types of subprojects. This has been an essential element for the
success of the PASI program, because knowledgeable and capable fl.,ancial intermediaries are
required for proper management of credit to the informal sector and to small businesses. This
proper selection of NGOs, together with the use of market interest rates, will ensure that the
program will not be decapitalized and may remain in place over the long term.
H. IDA Performance
43.    The innovative design of the project required special attention from IDA. This IDA
credit was appraised and approved in a relatively short time (para. 2). IDA established close
monitoring and supervision mechanisms, requesting quarterly audits by independent auditors, to
include a financial review of subprojects and physical inspection of works in the field, and to
furnish certified copies of reports within two months after the quarter ended. In addition, IDA
requested that SIF maintain an executive director whose experience and qualifications were
acceptable at all times, and to be consulted before any replacement for this position could be
made. The previous experience with social investment funds acquired by IDA in Bolivia, proved
an important factor in the successful assistance provided by IDA to the Honduran Government
in the preparation of the FHIS Project.
I. Borrower Performance
44.    FHIS earned respect from IDA, co-financiers and within Honduras as a successful and
efficient institution, mostly influenced by a high quality Executive Director, who has provided
strong leadership and managed the program as a modern private enterprise. His efficient
management is reflected in clearly defined products, large-scale production, quality control,
accountability, the capacity to attract and retain other high-caliber staff, and an implementation
strategy based on decentralization and privatization.
45.    The Honduran government's commitment to FHIS in getting the program off the ground
to an early start, helped to establish its credibility. Continuous government support demonstrated
that FHIS' decisions were based on technical and not political considerations.  This was
instrumental in demonstrating the seriousness of the program to potential donors, which helped
mobilize external resources.
J. Project Relationship
46.    Throughout the project, the working relationship between the Government of Honduras
and IDA was positive and constructive. IDA worked very closely with FHIS and commended
FHIS for the close coordination of their activities with the policies, norm setting, planning and
budgeting of the line ministries and other public agencies, which contributed to their effective
operation and the eventual sustainability of many of FHIS' subprojects. The close coordination
FHIS maintained with IDA, line ministries, and other agencies demonstrated flexibility,
responsiveness and commitment, and were key factors in its successful operations.
K. Project Documentation and Data
47.    The Staff Appraisal Report was essential in providing implementation guidelines for this
project. The Development Credit Agreement was instrumental in defining responsibilities. It



- 14 -
was also important that provision for a Special Account directly managed by FHIS was made to
facilitate disbursements.
48.    FHIS developed a good microcomputer-based management information system (MIS),
which facilitated subproject administration and monitoring by enabling the staff to rapidly access
data on the current status of any subprojects, especially in discussions with sponsors. The MIS
system also improved subproject supervision and financial analysis, especially in the areas of cash
flow projections, and monitoring disbursement and administrative costs. Improvements on the
system are planned to provide automatic integration between financial and operational modules
of the MIS.
L. Lessons Learned
49.   Integration of Macroeconomic Policies and High-level Political Support. An important
aspect of FHIS' success in achieving its objectives was that it became an integral part of the
Government's high priority economic policy; i.e., a social program to cushion the social costs
of the economic adjustment program. This policy framework provided FHIS with sustained, high
level political support and the budgetary resources to start the program even before external
financing could be mobilized. Strong governmental support was combined with restraint from
political intervention in the FHIS daily operations. Structural adjustment programs have been
shown to be necessary to ensure economic growth, but they are not enough to achieve a better
distribution of wealth and alleviate poverty, because they demand greater effort and attention on
the part of governments in the social arena. Well aware of the importance of alleviating the
social costs of adjustment and cushioning the hardship of the adjustment programs, especially on
the poor, and of the need to get broad public support for the adjustment program, the
Government established FHIS and gave it its full support. As proof of its strong commitment,
the Government made a significant initial financial contribution to start the program. This, in
turn, attracted other donors. The new administration that took office in 1994 also considers
FHIS' work a priority and is providing it with adequate support.
50.    Management Autonomy and Operational Efficiency. Its semi-autonomous institutional
form allowed FHIS to adopt more efficient management and operational procedures than those
used in line ministries. Combined with a strong manager's leadership, usually coming from the
private sector, streamlined management procedures resulted in rapid disbursements and good
quality subprojects. Implementation experience has shown that management efficiency could be
further strengthened by enhancing the existing management information system (MIS) and
improving inter-departmental coordination within FHIS. The key elements to FHIS' significant
achievements during its four-year existence and to its positive image, was the use of a
standardized menu of subprojects and of simplified procedures for budget, procurement,
disbursement and hiring staff, and the use of private sector contractors together with an efficient
administrative management. Without these efficient procedures and competent staff, FHIS would
have no advantage over line ministries. The simplified procurement procedures established in
the law that created FHIS have streamlined disbursement of subloans without undermining
qualiti. This was also achieved by the good quality of FHIS staff, the use of cost information
systems, the efficient evaluation mechanisms that were established, and an effective control and
monitoring system. To maintain these standards, it will be necessary to review salary levels
which have deteriorated, relative to the private sector which is the most susceptible of attracting
FHIS staff, fully integrate the MIS, and improve the supervision and control systems. Additional
efforts are needed to improve coordination among FHIS units, and further improve its impact
evaluation capabilities.



- 15 -
51.    Exception from Central Government Procurement and Salary Regulations. The special
Presidential Decree allowed FHIS to use simplified procurement procedures and to pay its staff
at competitive market rates. These two factors were instrumental in ensuring the efficiency of
FHIS, leading to a high volume of operations and accelerated disbursements without
compromising the quality of subprojects. These positive features need to be reinforced by
periodic reviews of the salary scale, integration of management information systems, continuous
attention to supervision of subprojects under execution, and improved evaluation of completed
subprojects.
52.    Simple and Effective Targeting and Promotion. FHIS allocated its funds transparently,
according to a poverty map and a set menu of subprojects which received ample publicity. This
system represents a significant improvement over traditional revenue-sharing formulas based
exclusively on population, since it allows for allocating additional resources proportionally to the
level of poverty in each municipality. For this targeting system to work effectively, FHIS had
to promote subproject proposals actively in the poorest municipalities where spontaneous demand
has been shown to be the lowest, due to its weaker organization and subprojects preparation
capacity compared with less poor communities. These special promotion efforts, covering the
80 poorest municipalities, resulted in increases in the share of resources channelled to the poorest
communities, from 25 percent in 1990 to 45 percent in 1993. FHIS' targeting mechanism based
on poverty categories and map has been successful. Most funds were channelled to the poorest
municipalities and to districts and settlements with extreme levels of poverty. It was important
for FHIS to make a special effort to help prepare subprojects in poorer communities which
normally have weaker organization and project capabilities, and therefore, are likely to have
fewer subprojects and less benefit from the social investment fund.
53.    Coordination with Line Ministries. FHIS was established at a time when social sector
planning and implementation capacity was lacking in line ministries, and there was a large
backlog of schools and health clinics in disrepair throughout the country. Coordination between
FHIS and the line ministries ensured that appropriate staff (principally teachers and nurses) and
recurrent budgets would be available for the social infrastructure that FHIS would finance. FHIS
also ensured that the proposed subproject would fit within the overall priorities of the line
ministries. This level of coordination was appropriate, given FHIS' policy of not engaging in
new construction, but only in the rehabilitation or expansion of existing facilities.  Closer
coordination would be required if FHIS evolves into a longer-term agency responsible for social
investments, including construction of new health and education facilities. Line ministries would
exercise their normative role in establishing sector policy priorities, and standards for new
infrastructure. Their construction departments would be redefined as smaller technical units,
responsible for management of large scale projects, development of prototype designs, norms and
standards, supervision and support for local maintenance of school buildings and clinics
constructed with FHIS financing. The good level of cooperation with social ministries can be
achieved without creating duplications with the functions of the line ministries when proper
coordination mechanisms are adopted and FHIS operates efficiently. The Fund complemented
the execution of programs of the social ministries, especially those of the Ministries of Health
and Education (para. 4), and these line ministries delegated their traditional functions to FHIS
for an efficient attainment of their objectives.
54.    Innovative Micro-Credit Program. With the intermediation of NGOs, FHIS has been
successful in using a small share of its resources (6.5%) to finance innovative short-term credits
that benefitted small scale artisans and microentrepeneurs (para. 26), without previous access to
credit. The design of the program takes advantage of FHIS' financing capacity and the NGOs



- 16 -
knowledge of the market, minimizing operating costs. FHIS lends to a few, highly experienced
NGOs, and these in turn screen potential borrowers and make small loans at market interest rates
assuming the credit risks, thereby protecting the fund from  possitle decapitalization.  The
participating NGOs were gradually strengthened by clearly established lending guidelines and
technical assistance provided by FHIS. The loan recovery rate exceeded 98 percent. The future
development of this program is being analyzed with the goal of enlisting the support of
commercial banks, and establishing the basis for a sustainable revolving credit program without
FHIS' continuous financial support. Credit to the informal sector has been a success, and if it
is properly designed, the line of credit can be a useful tool for poverty alleviation on a sustainable
basis.
55.    Importance of Technical Assistance  Technical assistance provided by UNDP and IDA
during project preparation and implementation, have contributed to the development of FHIS
operational procedures and helped sustain a process of continuous improvements in the program
during implementation. UNDP technical assistance, strong supervision by IDA, and independent,
external quarterly audits have been essential in making FHIS' activities efficient and transparent,
thus achieving its objectives and mobilizing more cofinancing resources.
56.    The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Program. The pilot nutrition program demonstrated that
distribution of food coupons is a more cost-effective means of providing nutrition assistance than
distribution of food in kind; that specific interventions should integrate into a broader nutritional
assistance policy, which includes periodic monitoring of the health/nutritional status of the
participants, and education and training of the beneficiaries in sound health and nutrition
behaviors and attitudes. By distributing food coupons through primary health care and education
facilities, the program generated greater demand for quality education and health services, and
more efficient use of health and education service facilities available at the local level, resulting
in broader and longer term health and education benefits to the beneficiaries. The program (BMI)
under the PRAF also demonstrated that primary health care services need to be strengthened, as
a pre-condition for successful nutrition programs. The PRAF pilot program fulfilled the objective
of providing efficient secure nutrition assistance for vulnerable groups affected by adjustment
policies.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 22120-HO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translation from the Spanish original)
A. Comments on Parts I and III
57.   FHIS fully endorses the analysis and data presented in Parts I and III.
B. IDA Performance
58.   The World Bank has played an excellent role in terms of its evaluation guidelines and
procedures in support of the emergency program of the Honduran Social Investment Fund
(FHIS). At all times, the Bank paid great attention to FHIS' performance, both in terms of
overseeing the approval of subprojects and their impact on the poorest groups of the Honduran
population.
59.   It should be noted that the Bank has provided training to our administrative staff on
management and disbursement procedures, which has allowed financial transactions to be
performed more efficiently.
60.   The Bank placed special emphasis on disbursement procedures through attention to
subprojects presented to it for approval. Its overall performance was very efficient and timely.
61.   It was noted, however, that when Bank staff are on vacation, our reimbursement requests
are delayed, affecting the above mentioned timely disbursement pattern.
62.   Through its Mid-Term Reviews (MTRs), the Bank has established an ideal means of
evaluating the management of FHIS, which has tried to follow the recommendations made on
those occasions strictly.
63.   The incentive for creating the units of Financial Analysis and Impact Assessment was
another of the Bank's successful recommendations which FHIS has implemented and
strengthened with considerable care and attention.
64.   The Bank has helped promote the FHIS by suggesting that it serve as a model for social
action for similar programs. The Bank has also acted as effective liaison between FHIS and
other financial agencies and donors.  This has helped international missions from other
institutions to get to know the FHIS. The Bank and UNDP have also encouraged the FHIS'
executive staff to inform other countries about the project's experiences.



- 18 -
C. Borrower Performance
65.    The Honduran Government has provided very strong support to FHIS during its
formation and development, which has allowed it to improve its administration, strategies and
investment programs in an independent and politically transparent manner.
66.    FHIS has developed important contacts with donor and financial organizations and with
friendly countries. The formulation of specific subprojects and the clear relationship between
subprojects and the communities requesting them, contributed significantly to FHIS' success in
mobilizing funds.  FHIS' subproject portfolio has continued to grow, demonstrating its
credibility with the communities and institutions requesting financing, as well as trust on the part
of financial and donor agencies regarding FHIS processes to evaluate, approve and disburse
subproject funds. To accomplish this, FHIS had to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles with respect
to national and international commitments.
67.    One of FHIS' basic objectives was to create employment and generate social benefits
through its subprojects. This involved an ongoing effort by the FHIS to assist the poorest
groups of society by properly focussing its Infrastructure, Basic Needs and Credit programs on
disadvantaged rural and urban areas.
68.    Because FHIS represented an innovative social action model in Honduras, it evolved
gradually. It began slowly and tentatively, and later took firm, confident steps toward becoming
a very efficient institution whose staff shared a strong work ethic and service orientation.
69.    Other positive features of FHIS are its strong capacity and skill in approving subprojects
covering all of the country's 291 municipalities, and its competent management, efficient and
productive staff, its project targeting procedures, its positive public and international image, and
the excellent coordination it has with line ministries:
(a)    The use of the poverty map gave FHIS strength and credibility in resource allocation
nationwide and helped focussed its efforts on the poorest groups. Decisions of a
sectarian and political nature were thereby avoided.
(b)    FHIS' very simple law, which provided for broad administrative flexibility, and the
development of manuals, procedures and regulations for each operational unit, enabled
it to operate with a high degree of efficiency.
(c)    FHIS succeeded in promoting proper coordination among local governments and
communities on matters of common interests. FHIS informed each municipality about
the availability of resources so that they can be used for tangible works, thereby
converting the aspirations of the poor into concrete projects.
(d)    The Development Credit Agreement with the World Bank specified that FHIS
administrative expenses should not exceed 10 percent. FHIS results in this area have
been clear: administrative expenses in 1990 were 5 percent of the total and less than 8
percent at the end of 1993.
70.    FHIS' weak points and limitations resulted, for the most part, from the speed with which
it has conducted its operations. Other factors include:



- 19 -
(a)    The approval of subprojects countrywide, including remote areas, has severely limited
FHIS's supervision capacity and have significantly slowed down the disbursement
process.
(b)    FHIS emphasized engineering works and physical execution, rather than promotion
activities and human development. However, physical works may serve as a catalyst for
the promotion of grassroots organization and participation of the population in the
country's development.
(c)    The lack of comprehensive solutions to community problems and the limited scope of
certain projects financed by FHIS were due, in many cases, to financial restrictions.
(d)    The lack of specialization on the part of certain intermediary agencies (such as non-
government organizations (NGOs)), tended to limit the quality of their work especially
when their programs become diversified,
(e)    The lack of community participation in project development and financing points to the
need to strengthen FHIS's promotion procedures.
(f)    The lack of dissemination of specialized information on FHIS' efforts was noteworthy.
Dissemination of FHIS' operations was limited and general in nature. For example, no
documentation on poverty research or specific issues related to poverty developed by
FHIS has been published.
(g)    There is a need to integrate FHIS's network of computer services linking the main
operational units in order to ensure better transactions and daily updating of
administrative and technical accounting data.
(h)    There is a need to expand preventive and corrective maintenance activities for recently
constructed education and health infrastructure projects financed by FHIS and to ensure
that these projects are generally sustainable.
D.  DA - Borrower Relationships
71.   The Mid-Term Review (MTR) process carried out by the Bank and the Borrower has
proved an appropriate mechanism for taking preventive and corrective actions to improve FHIS
performance. Generally, relations between FHIS and the Bank have been very successful, with
no difficulties.
72.   The technical and administrative issues raised by the Bank in formal and informal
communications and consultations were well received, and many of the FHIS' achievements were
due to the broad, frank and timely cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower for the
benefit of the project.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 22120-HO)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Credits
Credit                                            Year of
Name/Number                   Purpose                Approval         Status           Comments
Second Social      Help the govemment sustain its        1992          Under        This project builds
Investment Fund    poverty alleviation efforts and                 implementation   upon the
Project            maintain social cohesion during the                              achievements of
(Cr. 2401-HO)      period of economic adjustment                                    FHIS-1 and expands
until line ministries strengthen                                 the program using
their institutional capacities and                               the basically the
complete policy reform programs.                                 same project design.
Nutrition and
Health Project     Protect groups vulnerable to the     1993           Under
(Cr. 2452-HO)      economic adjustment process by                  implementation   The concept of this
channeling nutrition assistance to                               project, particularly
children, pregnant and nursing                                   its nutrition
women among the poorest groups                                   assistance
of the population; support the                                   component, was
establishment of a longer-term                                   tested on a pilot
nutrition assistance strategy;                                   scale under the
reduce maternal, infant and child                                FHIS-1 project and
mortality and morbidity rates by                                 lessons learned were
improving quality and access to                                  incorporated in
basic health services and water                                  project design.
supply and sanitation; strengthen
the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Health, the Family
Assistance Program and the Social
Cabinet Executive Secretariat; and
control the spread of AIDS.



- 21 -
2. Project Timetable
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Processing             Date            Date            Date
Steps              Planned         Revised          Actual
1. Identification (EPS)    05/14/90                        05/14/90
2. Prep./Preappraisal      06/15/90         07/15/90        07/26/90
3. Appraisal               08/15/90                         10/21/90
4. Credit Negotiations      11/15/90        12/17/90        01/14/91
5. Board Approval           12/18/90       01/29/91         02/28/91
6. Credit Signature        01/15/91                         03/14/91
7. Credit Effectiveness    03/30/91        08/15/91         06/26/91
8. Credit Closing           12/31/93       03/31/94         03/31/94
9. Credit Completion       06/15/94                         06/30/94
GRAPH I
CR: 2212-HO PROCESSING SCHEDULE
Planned Time
CD 4  - .   ,                                  ,   Revised rime
Actual Time
3
2
1a-90 Jul 90I    I   Ju-91    -92 JuI92 Jn-9-Ju l   J          'I    I
Jan-90 Jul-90 Jan-91 Jul-91 Jan-92 Jul-92 Jan-93 Jul-93 Jan-94 Ju1-94



- 22 -
3. Credit Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
SDR million
IDA FY               FY91         FY92          FY93         FY94
Appraisal Estimates              2.7           8.6         14.2         14.3
Actual Disbursements i           0.0          12.5         13.7         14.3
!' Undisbursed amount of SDR 17,767 was canceled August 1, 1994.
GRAPH 2
CR: 2212-HO: Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules
1 6
C')
.  1   0  --- - - - - - - - - -  --           --  - - - -- - - - -- -  - -
0*
FlblD           F Y 92           F Y 93           F Y9 4
Bank Fiscal Year
l iAppraisal Estimates * Actual Disbursements |



- 23 -
4. Project Implementation: Indicators for FHIS Programs
Number of      Amount    Amount as
Subprojects    (US$ M)    % of Total
Subprojects Executed by Type of
Program:
Social and Economic                       4,480        66.83         75.49
Infrastructure                             936         16.40          18.52
Basic Needs                                 56          5.10          5.76
Informal Sector Credit                        2         0.20          0.23
Institutional Strengthening              -------      -------         ------
Totals                                5,474        88.53         100.00
Subprojects Executed by Completion
Status:
Completed                                 4,482        72.10         81.44
Under implementation                       992         16.43          18.56
Totals                                5,474        88.53         100.00
Total Expenditures by FHIS:
Subprojects                                            88.53         91.08
Administration                                          7.87          8.10
Institutional Strengthening                             0.80          0.82
Totals                                             97.20         100.00
5. Project Costs and Financing
5. A. Project Costs
Project FHIS (US$ Millions)
ITEM                      Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Local    Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Subprojects                     45.19    16.18    61.37      62.19   26.34    88.53
Institutional Strengthening      0.64     0.42    1.06        0.40    0.40      0.80
Administrative Cost              4.07     0.31    4.38        7.30    0.57      7.87
Monitoring, Evaluation           0.04    0.01     0.05        0.00     0.00     0.00
Subtotal FHIS    49.94    16.92    66.86       69.89    27.31    97.20
Pilot Nutritional Assist. Program  0.38  0.04     0.42        0.03    0.29      0.32
Social Sector Restructuring      0.20     0.20    0.40        0.01    0.64      0.65
Living Standards Study           0.30     0.02    0.32        0.07    0.14      0.21
TOTAL COST        50.82    17.18    68.00      70.00   28.38    98.38



- 24 -
5. B. Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Plan                                                            Actual
Components       Beneficiaries   Government   Donors    Total          Beneficiaries*   Government   Donors   Total
FHIS                   6.57           11.58       48.71     66.86              0.00          12.94        84.26    97.20
Pilot Nutrition        0.00            0.22        0.20      0.42             0.00            0.06        0.26      0.32
Assistance Program
Social Sector          0.00            0.20        0.20      0.40              0.00           0.00        0.65      0.65
Restructuring
Living Standards       0.00            0.00        0.32      0.32             0.00            0.00        0.21      0.21
Survey
Total                   6.57          12.00        49.43    68.00              0.00           13.00       85.38    98.38
As % of Total:         9.66           17.65       72.69    100.00             0.00           13.21        86.79    100.00
* Beneficiaries' contribution in kind or labor was not monetized, but it is estimated to be an additional 12 percent of the total expenditures presented
5. C. FHIS Financing
(US$ millions)
Plan                                             Actual
Sources of Financing:            US$ M                     %                         US$M                   %
Beneficiaries                      6.57                    9.92                       0.00                 0.00
Govemment                         11.58                   17.32                      12.94                 13.31
Donors                            48.72                   72.86                      84.26                86.69
TOTAL                             66. 86                 100.00                      97.20                100.00
5. D. Credit 2212-HO by Methods of Procurement
Plan                                  Actual
Methods of Procurement             (USSM)                %                  (US$M)          %
ICB                                        0.80                4.0                  0.0           0.0
LCB                                        10.70              53.5                  5.40         27.0
Other *                                    5.60               28.0                 13.50          67.5
Not Applicable **                          2.90               14.5                  1.10          5.5
TOTAL                                      20.00              100.0                20.00         100.0
* Appraisal estimates combine local shopping and direct contracting under a single category of "Other Procurement Procedures".
** Includes consultants, auditing, training, salaries and other recurrent costs.



- 25 -
5. E. Allocation of FHIS Investinents by Type of Subproject (1990-1993)
Plan                                                     Actual*
Type of Subproject         (USSM)                %                       (US$M)                    %
Infrastructure                43.65                71.1                     67.57                   75.7
Basic Needs                   13.44                21.9                     16.43                   18.4
Informal Sector Credit         4.28                7.0                       5.10                    5.7
Institutional                  0.00                 0.0                      0.20                    0.2
Strengthening
TOTAL                         61.37               100.0                     89.30                   100.0
* Actual disbursements as of 12/31/93
5. F. Allocation of the Proceeds of Credit 2212-HO by Type of FHIS Subproject
Plan                                                 Actual
Type of Subproject         (US$M)              %                    USM)                    %
Infrastructure                12.70             81.7                   13.05                 70.2
Basic Needs                   2.20              12.2                    4.23                 22.8
Informal Sector Credit         1.10              6.1                    1.22                  6.6
Institutional                 0.00              0.0                     0.08                  0.4
Strengthening
TOTAL                         18.00             100.0                  18.58                 100.0



5. G. FHIS Investment by Municipal Poverty Index
1990-1993
FHIS Investments in US$ million*
Classification of Municipalities                   1990                          1991                        1992                      1993**                      TOTAL
Poverty Index       Level                     $            %                            %                $         %                S          %                $          %
Less than 20        Acceptable              0.19            3                2.30        8              1.54        5              0.66         6              4.69         6
20 to 30            Regular                 2.93           46                9.75       34              8.67       25              2.16        18             23.51        29
30 to 40            Deficient                1.53          24                5.74       20              9.42       28              3.17        26             19.86        24
40 to 50            Poor                     1.02          16                4.59        16             6.48        19              2.61       22             14.70        18
more than 50        Very Poor               0.63           10                5.45        19             7.03       21              2.74        23             15.85        20
N/A                 Unclassified            0.06            1                0.86         3             0.99         2             0.63         5              2.54         3
TOTAL                                       6.36          100               28.69       100            34.13       100             11.97      100             81.15       100
* Exchange rates used: US$1 = L.5.35 (1990); L.5.40 (1991): L.5.54 (1992): L.6.50 (1993)
** Data for 1993 up to March 25.
GRAPH 3
CR: 2212-HO: Distribution of F1IS Investment my Municipal Poverty Index
80                                                                Data to March 1993
70-
60X
50-
o-40-                                                                   Acceptable &  Regular
30Weficient, Poor, Very Poor
1990  1991  1992  1993
Year



- 27 -
6. Project Results
6. A. Direct Benefits
Projects Completed
Number of    Amount   Direct                Emplo,yment                                Number of
Category               Subprojects   (US$ M)   Beneficiaries         Generated*  Type of Benefit                    Units
Social Infrastructure:    2,728        45 53           -                -         Kindergarten rehab/cons.           381
School rehab/cons.               2,327
Education                                                                        Retaining walls (nil)             3,476
Kitchen/rtorage                  3,177
Health                    305          4.57            -               -         Health center const./rehab.        303
Healthcare                340          20.41           -               -         Sewer/water systems                244
Latrines/septic tanks              170
Roads                     834           9.94                                      Bridges/gutter/pavement
Comm. Facilities          219          2.24
Ruins/museum               54           .86
SUBTOTAL               4,480         83.56                            120,771
Basic Needs:                                                                      School desks                   360,836
Education                 651          12.78                                      Family gardens                   6,112
Comm. Facilities          143           2.17                                      Poultry farms (livestock)        3,635
Health                     51           1.40                                     Midwife                           4,632
Heslth Care                91          4.01                                       Latrines                        57,337
Septic tanks                       170
SUBTOTAL                936          20.36                              7,777
Informal Sector
Subprojects:
Credits                    56           5.95
SUBTOTAL                 56          5.95                              12,950   Microentrepreneurs               3,753
Community Bank Mbrs.             7,219
Institutional
Strengthening:                                                                    Operations and
Training                   2            0.23                                      maintenance training for
local water boards
SUBTOTAL                 2           0.23                                 21
TOTAL                     5,474        110.10                           141,519
* Average job of 5 month duration.



6. B. Studies
Studies                                Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                           Status                          Impact of Study
1. Mid-project Review                  To review progress and assess performance of FHIS management    Completed June 10, 1992    Findings used to assess FHIS performance and
and key personnel and all institutions involved in implementing the                       taken into account for program planning and
project                                                                                    implementation.
2. FHIS Impact Study: (Fondo           Main report available only in Spanish. Based on rationale that by  Completed February 28,  FHIS has been successful in increasing
Hondureiio de Inversion Social, FHIS:    transferring resources to poor urban and rural communities, there  1994                  investment in basic community services with
Impacto de los Proyectos, FHIS,        would be increased employment and incomes, better sanitation,                              reasonable administrative costs, and has helped
Primer Informe, July 23, 1993) .       health and education facilities, increased productivity, and                               to modernize public sector.
enhanced delivery of social services. A summary report is
available in English.
3. The Living Standards Measurement   To set up a monitoring and evaluation system for the             Three rounds of            Improved format used in national household
Study (LSMS)                           Government's social policy interventions and to be coordinated by  household surveys have  surveys with introduction of consumption
SECPLAN.                                                        been completed.            module.
cx



- 29 -
6. C. Audit Recommendations
FY91/92          %           FY93          %           TOTAL             %
SGN                      176           30            3             5            179            27
SPR                       37            6            12           21             49             8
DCS                      163           27           34            60            197            30
LBR                       15            3            0            0              15             2
RAE                      94            16            0             0             94            14
DOA                       9             2            5             9             14             2
GRT                      36             6            0            0              36             6
OTH                      66            11            3             5             69            11
TOTAL                   596            100          67           100            653            100
Findines
SGN   = Lack of one or more required signature(s)
SPR   = Poor quality of material or a technical deficiency
DCS  = Deficiencies at Supervision Department
LBR   = Labot cost below expected average
RAE  = Reconcialiation of Accounts between the contractor and FHIS not carried
DOA  = Deficiencies at Accounting Department
GRT  = Subproject not fmnished on the time required
OTH   = Others (Lack of counterpart funding, problems not foreseen at time of planning)
GRAPH 4
Quarterly Audit Reports
3t50-                                                        U Total # Reports with
Recommendation
300-
[   Total i  Reports without
250                                                              Rcmedto
200L
150F
100-
50                                              ------                                                    ...
0*
FY91 /92                                                 FY93



- 30 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant          Subject                                                Deadline for Compliance      Status
3.06(a)           Review process of implementing Project with SIF and    December 31, 1991            In compliance
Association, to determine appropriateness of established
amounts for achieving purposes of the project.
3.06(b)           Borrower to take appropriate actions to achieve project's    January 31, 1992       In compliance
objectives pursuant to review.
3.08              Report on subprojects approved by SIF                  June 30 and December 31 of   In compliance
each year
4.01(a)           Maintain records and accounts                          Annually, by June 30 of each   In compliance
year
4.01(b)           Audit reports                                          Quarterly                    In compliance
Schedule 3,       Procurement                                            N.A.                         Not in
Section 1, Part C                                                                                     compliance*
* Contracts procured through local shopping and direct contracting totalled $13.5 million (See Table 5.D) exceeding by 40 percent
the aggregate $5.6 million originally planned.                                                                                                L
8. Use of Bank Resources
8. A. Staff Inputs
STAGE OF PROJECT                                              STAFFWEEKS
CYCLE                             HQ                      FIELD                      TOTAL
Through appraisal                               21.8                      55.2                       77.0
Appraisal through                               11.4                       0.0                       11.4
Board Approval
Supervision                                     22.0                      50.2                       72.2
PCR                                              2.4                       6.4                        8.8
TOTAL                                         57.6                      111.8                      169.4



8. B. Use of lDA Resources: Mis&ions
Mission             Month/year         No. of           SW  in           Specialty          Performance        Types of
Persons           Field                                Rating k'        Problems
Identification                     05/90           5               4.8         A,C(2),D,E                N/A
Prep./Pre-appraisal                07/90           6               12.0        A,B,C(2),D,F              N/A
Appraisal                          10/90           8               15.1        A(2),B,                   N/A
C(3),D,H
Supervision 1                      04/91           1               1.0         C                           I               N/A
Supervision 2                      06/91           1               0.6         A                           I               N/A
Supervision 3                      07/91           2               4.0         A,G                         I               N/A
Supervision 4                      11/91           6               12.0        A,B(2),D,E,G                I               N/A
Supervision 5                      02/92           2               0.8         A,C                         I               N/A
Supervision 6                      11/92           4               2.0         A,B,E,G                     1               N/A
Supervision 7                      07/93 d'        1               0.4         1                           1               N/A
Supervision 8                       10/93 '        1               0.5         B                           I               N/A
Project Completion                 02/94 f         2               3.0         B,E                         I               N/A
Notes:
5  A =Financial Analyst; B =HumanResources Specialist; C =Human Resources Economist; D = Economist; E= Credit Specialist; F=Architect; G =Engineer;
H =Lawyer; I=Procurement Analyst.
1 =problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3/4=major problems.
J Jointly with Supervision Mission of Loans 2804-HO and 2401-HO.
v Jointly with Supervision Mission of Loan 2212-HO and Preparation Mission of Basic Education.
5 Jointly with Supervision Mission of Loan 2452-HO and Preparation Mission of Basic Education.



- 32 -
BIBLIOGRAPHY
"Organizaciones Privadas de Desarrollo que Atienden a la Microempresa en Honduras:
Su capacidad para Ilevar a cabo proyectos financiados por el FHIS', Mirtha Olivares,
July 24, 1990.
"Identifying Poverty Groups in Honduras, Ralph Franklin, May 1990.
"The Participation of Private Development Organizations in the Basic Needs Program of
the Social Investment Fund", Anna Webb, July 16, 1990.
'Plan Piloto para el Proyecto de Bono Materno Infantil', Mario Ochoa, August 1990.
Project Preparation Report on the Water and Sewerage Sector, Ana Maria Sant'Ana,
October 24, 1990.
"Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds, The Latin American Experience",
LA2HR, The World Bank, May 23, 1994.
Social Investment Fund I - Credit 2212-HO
Development Credit Agreement. March 14, 1991
Memorandum to the President. February 6, 1991
Staff Appraisal Report, February 6, 1991
Supervision Reports. Dates: June 10, 1991; August 15, 1991; February 28, 1992,
February 8, 1993
Honduras: Mid-Term Review, June 10, 1992



