')ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reot No. 9148-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Honduras Lempira - US$5.5
SDR 1.0 - US$1.43
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) - 10,000 m2
1 Metric. Ton (mt) - 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer - 1,000 m
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BANASUPRO      - National Supplier of Basic Products
EC             - European Community
DGE             - General Statistical Office
ESP            - Emergency Social Fund of Bolivia
FHIS           - Honduran Social Investment Fund
GNP            - Gross National Product
GOH            - Government of Honduras
GTZ            - German Agency for Technical Corporation
ICB            - International Competitive Bidding
ILO            - International Labor Organization
JBS            - Social Welfare Board
KfW             - German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LCB            - Local Competitive Bidding
MHS             - Multiple Purpose Permanent Household Survey
MOE              Ministry of Education
MOH             - Ministry of Health
MOP             - Memorandum of the President
NGOs           - Nongovernmental Organizations
PRAF           - Family Assistance Program
RUTA           - Regional Unit of Technical Assistance
SANAA          - National Water and Sewerage Service
SECOPT         - Ministry of Communications and Public Works
SECPLAN        - National Planning Ministry
SOEs           - Statements of Expenditure
UN              - United Nations
UNDP            - United Nations Development Program
USAID           - United States Agency for International Development
WFP            - World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. THE HONDURAN ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND THE SOCIAL EMERGENCY
Recent Economic Developments  .                . . . . . .       1
The Economic Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .        1
Extent of Poverty in Honduras  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Effects of the Adjustment Program on Prices and Employment       4
Effects on Health and Nutrition Indicators  . . . . . . .        4
Effects on Education Indicators . . . . . . . . . . .   .        5
Inadequate Delivery of Social Services  . . . . . . . . .        5
Government Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
II.  THE GOVERNMENT'S EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROGRAMS
A. THE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Objectives and Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Institutional Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
Target Population . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       11
Organization and Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
Program Targets and Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
Main Participants in FHIS Projects  . . . . . . . . . . .       14
Project Promotion, Identification and Preparation . . . .       15
Project Appraisal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Project Approval  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
Project Implementation and Supervision  . . . . . . . . .       17
Operational Manual  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
Coordination with Ministries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
Management Information System . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Honduras in October/November 1990. Mission members were J.J. de
Saint Antotne (mission leader), A.M. Arriagada, J. Newman, C. Bertao, T.
Castaneda, G. Rioseco (RUTA), R. Cisneros and G. Leiva (consultants).
The mission was joined by Messrs. D. Neuhaus and I. Oltmann of the KfW.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
S. THE PILOT NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRA  . . . . . . . . ..  .       19
C. TEM SOCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAX  . . . . . . . . . .    21
D. THE LIVING STANDARDS MEASUREMET STUDY . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Ill. THE PROJECI
Origin of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Objective   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Description   .    .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .    26
Project Costs and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Procurement r . o . . o . o o *  *   o . *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  29
Supervision  and Reportng      .. .. ........ .  .              32
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Documentation of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Accounts and Audits . . . . ..   ...........                    33
Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Recurrent Costs... .                 . . . . . . . .  . . .    34
Monitoring and Feedback ..  . . . . ...........                 34
Women's Participation . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . .    35
Envirormental Effect  .        .......... . .  .  ..    36
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  . ..........  . . .   . . . . . .    37
Recommendetion  . . . . . .                             . . . . .     39
Annexes
1.  Organic Lav of the FHIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      40
2. Organization Chart of the FHIS . . . . . . ... .   . .        49
3.  Social Infrastructure Projects . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
4.  Social Sector Projects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
5.  NGO in  iondura  .      .....        ..............          59
6.  Total Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
7.  Financing Plan  .... .. . . .  . .          . . . . .    ..  68
8.  Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . .  .    69
9.  Pilot Nutrition Assistance Program . .  . .  . .  . . .    70
10. Methods of Procure.ment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...     77
11. Informal Sector Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    78
12. Documents included in the Project File . . . . . . . .    82
IBRD Nos.
22872 - Access to Basic Sanitation
22873 - Malnutrition Rates
22874 - Access to Potable Water



lHNDURhS
SOC£Z-X 'TSTWENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
B rrm*rs             The Republic of Honduras
Dansfiulariess       Target groups in rural and urban poverty areas
through the FHIS, municipalitisee, NGO and other
entities.
ANQUES              SDR14.3 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Tarmat               Standard IDA terms with 35 yeara maturity including
10 years of grace
Pr2oect Obiectives
and Deacrition:    The objectives of the proposed project are to: (i)
mitigate the social costs of adjustment and allow
economic reform measures to be put into place
rapidly with the necessary support of the
population, (ii) lay the basis for a decentralized
program of direct support for the poor and
malnourished to buy food, and (iii) support the
improvement of service delivery in the social
ministries. The project would have four components:
(i) the financing of the FPIS (more than 95S of
total project cost), (ii) support to a pilot
targeted nutrition assistance program (the executing
agency would be the Family Assistance Program),
(iii) technical assistance to help design a program
to improve the efficiency and equity of the services
of MOH and MOE, and (iv) the setting up of a
monitoring and evaluation system of the government's
social policy interventions through the use of a
Living Standards Measurement Study (the coordinator
of this program would be the Ministry of Planning).
Benefltes            By transferring resources to poor urban and rural
communities, the FHIS would help to: (i) create
employment and income among the poor segment of the
population whose living conditions would be more
severely affected by adjustment, (ii) improve the
social infrastructure so that the beneficiaries
enjoy better sanitation, lower transport costs, lose
erosion damage, etc., (iii) reduce the rates of
mortality, malnutrition, and illiteracy,
particularly among women and children, and (iv)
provida the Borrower with a decentralized mechanism
for delivering social services.
hUhi:                Given the emergency situation, there is the risk
that the FHTS may be tempted to respond too quickly



to demand, which could result in poor use of funds
or their diversion to uses not envisaged in the
project. This risk would be reduced substantially
through clear melection criteria, a good information
system, quarterly audits and close supervision.
There are also risks associated with the nutrition
assistance program, as poor design, targeting, and
implementation may result in waste of resources and
affect the Government's image. For this reason, it
is proposed to start with a pilot operation which
can identify and solve logistical problems on a
small scale.
Estimated Cgots:
Local        Foreign      Total
-------    US$ Million--------
- FHIS Subprojects             45.19            16.18     61.37
- Institutional Support         0.64            0.42       1.06
- Recurrent Costs                4.07           0.31       4.38
- Monitoring & Evaluation        0.04           0.01       0.05
Subtotal FHIS            49.94           16.92      66.86
- Pilot Nutrition Assistance
Program                     0.38            0.04       0.42
- Social Sector Restructuring
Pro.gram                    0.20            0.20       0.40
- Living Standards Study        0.30            0.02       0.32
TOTAL COST              50.82           17.18      68.00
Financing Plan:                Local       Foreign       USS million
Government                       8.0             0.0       8.0
Beneficiaries                    7.0             0.0       7.0
IDA                             15.0             5.0      20.0
USAID                            8.0             0.0       8.0
RfW                              8.0             4.0      12.0
GTZ                              0.0             0.2       0.2
CIDA                             0.5             0.0       0.5
UNDP                             0.0             0.6       0.6
The Netherlands/UNDP             0.0             2.1       2.1
UNICEF                           0.0             0.1       0.1
Spain                            0.6             0.0       0.6
Japan                            0.0             0.4       0.4
Others                           3.7             4.8       8.5
Total                        50.8             17.2      68.0



RetroactLve Financna:s Up to US$2.0 million equivalent would be
p-mmitted in respect of eligible expenditures incurred since Novembor 1,
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                  M991         1992         1993        1994
--- US$ Million ------
Annual             4.0 1/       8.0          7.8          0.2
Cumulative         4.0          12.0         19.8        20.0
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Hag: IBRD Nos. 22872; 22873; and 22874
1/ Includes the initial deposit of US$2.0 million equivalent to the
Special Account



SOCIaL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF hP2RAISAL REPORT
I.                    I E_]  ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND THE SOCIAL EMERGENCY
Recent E_ onomic Deeloiments
1.1       Honduras' economic performance in 1989 reflected the
fundamental structural weaknesses in the economy that made long-term
growth unsustainable unles major economic reforms were implemented.
Real GDP growth declined from 4.72 in 1988 to 2.12 in 1985, a rate below
population growth. Gross domestic injestment fell to less than 132 of
GDP, and national savings reached only 5.82 of GDP. The current account
deficit r."ained high at about 7.32 of GDP and was financed through the
accumulation of arrears on external debt as medium and long-term capital
inflows declined from US$98 million in 1988 to a negative US$46 million
in 1989. Public sector savings deteriorated from -0.12 in 1988 to -1.9S
of GDP in 1989. The overall public sector deficit remained high at 9.22
of GDP and was financed mainly through the accumulation of external
arrears (4.72 of GDP) and the commercial banking system (4.32 of GDP).
This put upward pressure on the parallel market exchange rate that
reached above Lempira 4 per US$1, compared to an official rate of L 2
per US$1. As a result, the rate of domestic inflation increased from
102 in 1988 to about 202 in 1989.
The Economic Reform Proaram
1.2          On March 2, 1990, the Government of Honduras (GOH)
presented a package of sweeping reforms to improve the exchange and
tariff regimes, and to reduce the public sector deficit. The currency
was adjusted for most transactions from 2 lempiras - US$1 to 4 lempiras
- US$1, and the Central Bank of Honduras has adopted a crawling peg
system of currency valuation. All imports will be financed through the
foreign exchange transactions carried out at the new rate, ending the
implicit subsidy of petroleum, basic grains, industrial and other key
input. The new exchange regime will have a positive impact on the
trade balance.
1.3          The tariff reform will lead to major reductions in the
dispersion and average effective protection rates between now and 1992.
Under the new law, the nominal tariff structure will vary between 22 and
402, and the dispersion will be further reduced over time, with nominal
rates expected to be between 52 and 202 at the end of 1992. Traditional
tariff exemptions of the public sector have been eliminated. By 1992,
the effective protection rate could be around 402, i.. less than half
the rate of 952 estimated in a 1988 study. This reduction in protection
will most likely have a strcng negative effect on import-competing
industrial production, and employment and earnings of workers employed
in those sectors.



-2-
1.4          To reduce the budget deficit, the government would take
fiscal measures to increase central government revenues from 162 to 212
of GDP over the medium term, and limit current expenditures to about 21Z
of GDP. This would reduce the overall public sector deficit to 6.92 of
GDP despite the effect of the currency adjustment on public sector debts
which is estimated at 22 of GDP.
1.5          Recognizing efforts of the Honduran government to undertake
a bold program of economic reforms, the Bank has released the second
tranche of tha Structural Adjustment Loan I. In June 1990, a financial
package of US$250 million to clear multilateral arrears was negotiated.
A Second Structural Adjustment Loan of US$90 million was approved by the
Board in September 1990 and the first tranche was disbursed in November
1990. In light of the impact of higher oil prices and export earning
losses resulting from a strike of banana workers in July 1990, the
Association approved in January 1991 a US$20 million equivalent credit
to supplement the financing provided under SAL II. Sector Adjustment
Loans Sor energy and agriculture are also under preparation.
Extent or Poverty in Hondutas
1.6          Honduras, with 4.4 million people, is one of the poorest
countries in the Western Hemisphere. Its GNP per capita of US$481
projected for 1990, is higher only than that of Bolivia, Haiti and
Nicaragua. Extreme poverty affects over 50% of the population
nationally and     rly 802 of the rural population who live in about
3,700 villages and over 27,000 hamlets. The rural population represents
over 602 of the total population. The poverty problem is aggravated by
the rapid population growth of 2.8% per year, one of the highest in the
Western Hemisphere. Among other factors, high population grorith arises
from high fertility rates (5.6 children per woman in childbearing age on
a national scale, but 6.86 in rural areas), low levels of contraceptive
use (632 in the cities and only 302 in rural areas), and low birth
spacing with 302 of births taking place in an interval of less than 24
months.
1.7          Although social indicators have improved over the last 20
years, they still have a long way to go to be satisfactory. The health
and nutritioa indicators reflect the acute problems of the lack of
prevention of simple illness, lack of sanitation, inadequate diets, and
deficient coverage of the primary health care system which currently
reaches only 60% of its target population. Infant mortality is over 60
per 1000 live births, and 20% of the children are born underweight
according to the last epidemiological and family health surv6y (1987).
In 1987, maternal mortality was 113 per 1000 live births, partly because
about half of deliveries are attended by non-trained personnel.
According to the 1987 national nutrition survey, undernutrition (weight-
for-age, all three degrees) affects 372 of the children younger than 5
years of age. Nutritional deficiencies have been found to be a
contributing factor in about 602 of infant deaths. The undernutrition
rate for rural areas is 42% and over 55% in some of the poorest areas.



-3-
1.8          Infant mortality caused by infectious diseaes (diarrhea
and acute respiratory infectiono) is the primary cause of death. Deaths
of children between 0 and 1 year old account for a third of total deaths
in the countxj. These indicators reflect a severe health 4nd sanitation
problem.  The frequent number of episodes cf diar-heA estisated at three
per year severely limits tlhe possibilities of nutrition recuperation.
The lack of potable water and sanitation facilities is dramatic in so%-e
health regions.  For instance, lesa  than 52 of householis in the health
regions of Juticalpa Olancho, Choluteca, and San Felipe-Tegucigalpa
(regions 7, 4 and 1) reported to have in-hcuse connections to potable
water while the national average is 562. Over 442 of households at the
national level have no appropriate ex--rete disposal, and in some regions
the situation is acute.
1.9          The status of education in Honduras is critical, although
school enrollment indicators show a good access to public schools by the
population. Gross enrollment has been steadily improving and now stands
at 1062 including repeater students (the net is about 902), the highest
in Central America, except for Costa Rica and Panama. However, in 1988,
the country still had a 322 illiteracy rate, which in rural areas
amounted to over 422 of the population, and the average educational
attainment of the population was only 3.5 years of schooling.   These
poor outcomes arise from the inefficient management and inappropriate
resource allocation of the education sector which results in low
internal efficiency of the education system, especially at the primary
level. These problems are reflected in high repetition and dropout
rates which cost the country over 30 million Lempiras a year (US$7
million). In 1987, only 462 of those who entered the first grade
reached the sixth grade, but the problem is even more acute in rural
areas where only 232 complete the sixth grade. Part of the reason for
these low completion rates, particularly in rural areas, is that over
362 of the primary bchools offer less than six grades. Average
repetition in primary school is about 13%, but is over 542 and 212 in
the first and second grades. Only 182 of the children go throuoh the
primary school cycle without repeating grades.  The drop-out ra6es are
over 392 in the first grade and over 192 in the second grade. An
important reason for the high repetition and dropout rates is the
malnutrition of children which adversely affects their learning
performance and classroom attendance.
1.10         Another pressing problem in the education sector is a
shortage of classrooms, the deterioration of existing classrooms, and
the lack of textbooks and teaching materials. The Ministry of Educaticn
(HOE) estimates that 502 of the existing school network (7,300 schools)
needs repair, reflecting that little maintenance has been done by the
MOE or the comunities.  The MOE has constructed only about 250
classrooms per year when the total needs are estimated at about 800
classrooms. Only 392 of the schocle have enough desks for their
students. The average unit cost of primary schooling has been estimated
at 278 Lempiras per year (US$64), of which only 1 Lempira (US$0.23) is
devoted to books and teaching materials.



- 4 -
LJfJU.s of the 2Ad1utmt Prora  on Pres gnd  m2lot24M t
1.LI         The adjustment pro6ram vill ultimately increase growth,
ex,161ment and real incomos, but has tomporary social costs. Roal wages
of the urban poor and not consumers of fond in rural areas ore being
reduced. Following the exchango rate adjustment and elimination of
exemptions, there have been major price increases in basic foods and
most consumer goods in 1990. Preliminary indicatione show the consumer
price index rising at an annualized rate of over 252 since the exchange
rate adjustment.
1.12         Unless appropriat, actions are taken to aitigat6 in tho
short run the socie1. costs of economic adjustment, the economic reform
program viii exert idditional pressure on what are already unstable
labor market conditions. The economic reform is also expected to have
nogative employment effects. Unemployment may increase from 122 in 1989
to about 17S of the labor force. rho loss of jobs resulting from the
stabilization and adjustmont process would range between 26,000 and
52,000, as the adjustment measures take their toll not only in the
public sector, but also in highly protected industries, construction,
and other sectors which employ mostly blue-collar workers.
Unoeremployment is also high at present and may represent 15-20% of the
workforce. It is expected to increase principally in the agricultural
soctor and the expanding informal sector which are the principal buffers
for the growing pool of underemployed workers.
Effects on Health and Nutrition Indicators
1.13         At the same time, the economic adjustment will most
probably have a negative impact on health and nutrition indicators,
reversing a trend of continued improvements over the last 20 years. In
some of the poo-e*t regions of Honduras, nutrition indicators are among
the worst in the Western Hemisphere and far worse than the national
average (para. 1.7) already with malnutrition rates for children of less
than 5 years vtrying between 55S and 712. As a result of the economic
adjustment, 1jalth and nutrition indicators, which have improved in the
past two derades, may temporarily reverse their trend, not only because
of the pos'lible reduction in public expenditures for health and
nutrition, but also because of expected declines in the earnings of the
low-income groups.
1.14         Those who will suffer the most are pregnant and lactating
mothers and children under 5 years cf age who need to be protected from
reduction in consumption of basic foodr and the consequent increase in
malnutr4tion and death rates. The current program of food distrioution
throu"t. the health system supported by CARE, the World Food Program
(WFP), the European Community (EC) and other donors, covers only about
11S of pregnant and lactating women and children 0-5 years old. The
existing food distribution program has several disadvantages: (i)
because of the lack of information, beneficiaries are not properly
targeted, (ii) food aid programs are not coordinated, partly because of



the different motives of diffevent  ionors and, so a reault, tnere is
duplication and waQte, (iii) most of the fuod tend* to go -.o people near
the port and the carital, and the really needy people in remote are'..
got little or nothing because of lack of transport, warehouse
facilities, personnel, and complicated bureaucratic procedures of the
Government, (iv) the types of goods distributed are not always
acceptable to beneficiaries, and (v) supply varisa  dep. nding on
availability of sutpluses (e.g., skiuired milk from the 92C). lecause of
its limitod coverage, the current food distribution program cannot be
used quickly and efficiently to protect vulnerable groups from the drop
in consumption. These programs could and should be improved, but it
would be an lines task.
1.15         A food coupon program would reach a wider coverage earlier,
would be more efficient, and would have a larger impact on nutrition
levels. For this reason, the Government intends to implement in the
short term a program of food coupons to be implemented by the Family
Assistance Program (PRAP) through the health system (including only a
limited n'v4ber of staple items to simplify the logistics), as discussed
later (paras. 2.34-2.39). A fooe coupon systdm (i.e., a coupon used to
buy food in private stores) is more efficient than physical distribution
of food because: (i) it is simpler, (ii) it relies on the private sector
for food distribution, and (iii) it is self-targeting (because wealthier
households use private rather than public health care facilities) and
ensures an adequate linkage between health and nutrition of
beneficiaries.
jffocts on Education Indicators
1.16         The population of school-age children is most likely to be
affected by the economic reforms. Besides the reductions in public
expenditures for education, the expected fall in family income will
increase the opportunity cost of child schooling, and poor parents will
tend tn withdraw children from school to put them to work. Childron
between 2 and 5 years old are only minimally covered with child care in
conventional preschool programs by the Social Welfare Board (Junta de
Bienestar Social - JBS). In other cases, many mothers will have to work
and leave their children at home, often without proper care. Therefore,
compensatory measures should be put in place not to worsen drop-out and
repetition rates which are extremely high tlready, especially in rural
areas (par&. 1.9).
Inadeauate Deliverv of Social Services
1.17         Service delivery by the Ministries of Health and Education
(MOH and MOE) is inadequate. Honduras has not neglected the social
sectors in ters of spending whioh, at 6.82 of GDP, compares favorably
to other countries in the region. However, the health and education
sectors have inefficiently used resources and inappropriately allocated
the budget. This practice has resulted in; (i) a serious drop ir
capital and operational expenditures, such as medicines, textbooks and



- 6 -
teaching m&terials, as well as maintenance, (ii) an excessive proportion
of the MOH and MOE budgets going to salaries (about 63% in the MOH and
97% in the MOE), (iii) low quality of services because of the lack of
material resources and the inefficiencies in the line ministries, and
(iv) rapidly rising administrative costs. Service delivery may worsen
during the economic adjustment period and the education and health
infrastructure could deteriorate even further because of tightened
budgets, especially in rural areas.
1.18         To increase basic health coverage to 90S, the MOH intends
to upgrade and build health centers. It plans to undertake this program
with community personnel and local contractors using local materials
such as "adobe". However, given its bureaucratic procedures and
complicated procurement laws, the MOH estimates that it could undertake
only a small portion of that program. There is also a lack of basic
equipment and supplies for health posts, and need for training of
paramedical personnel. A program to improve the health infrastructure
such as repair of health posts would provide significant employment
opportunities in remote and poor rural areas where health posts will be
built or upgraded. The MOH welcomes financing of health posts
rehabilitation projects by agencies such as the FHIS (para. 2.2) to
complement the Ministry's own program. In case of new construction, the
MOH has already expressed its willingness to ensure the staffing and
other recurrent expenditures within the existing fiscal constraints.
Thus, it would maintain its policy, i.e. to play a normative and
supervisory role, but subcontract construction of infrastructure to
other agents who have a comparative advantage.
1.19         Ir the case of education, the majority of schools,
especially in rural areas, arc in a bad state of disrepair. Only 44%
have potable water and only 16% have electricity. The MOE estimates
that it can rehabilitate at most 1,000 classrooms directly in a two-year
period. However, if the communities execute these projects, the
rehabilitation program could be increased to 3,000 classrooms during the
same period. The same principles regarding the financing of recurrent
costs and the policy and normative role that were discussed for the MOH
would apply to the MOE.
1.20         Thirty-five percent of the population of Honduras still
does not have adequate access to potable water. The situation is
critical in rural areas where 1.2 million people live without assurance
of potable water. It is one of the reasons why infant mortality is 15%
higher in rural areas than in the country as a whole, and the same is
true for 4nutestinal infections. In addition, the need to walk long
distances to fetch water reduces the productivity of households.
Empirical studies have demonstrated that, with proper access to potable
water, households could devote as much as two more hours per day to
child care, 'Lousehold chores, and farming. An IDB ex-post evaluation of
its Rural Water Supply Program shows that the requirements for
investment in water supply and sanitation are six times the amounts
invested on an annual basis since 1970. The recent tariff increase by



-7-
the National Water and Sewerage Service (SANAA) should allow it to
expand services, but this may take some time.
1.21         There are 1600 kms of rural roads in Honduras, of which 400
kms, i.e. 25% are in bad condition and require immediate attention. The
Ministry of Communications and Public Works (SECOPT), however, has the
capacity to maintain only about 607 of the rural road system. This is
because most of its budget is absorbed by salaries and the remaining
operational funds are insufficient to perform routine and periodic
maintenance. SECOPT is taking drastic measures to improve its
efficiency. It has recently released 2,000 redundant workers and is
programming further reductions in 1990 and 1991. SECOPT has a highly
motivated management and a strong staff of quality engineers. Given
that its restructuring program will take time, SECOPT has started to
pass a number of its maintenance projects to the PHIS for financing.
Contracts are awarded to small private local contractors and the
projects are supervised by SECOPT's engineers. This course of action is
worth supporting since maintenance works are among those with the
highest rate of return in the transport sector.
Government Strategv
1.22         The Government gives high priority to its social program
which it sees as an essential complement to its adjustment program. The
Government has designed a strategy which addresses both the short term
social costs of adjustment as well as long term issues of the social
sector. This strategy is composed of four parts: (i) the Social
Investment Fund, (ii) a pilot nutrition assistance program, (iii) a
social sector restructuring program, and (iv) a Living Standards
Measurements study. The proposed project would support all the
components of this strategy which is summarized below and described more
extensively in Part II of the report (the Government's Social Emergency
Program).
1.23         To cushion the social effects of its adjustment program,
the Government has created the FHIS through a law allowing the
institution to operate flexibly and efficiently. The FHIS combines an
emergency employment strategy with the objective of poverty alleviation
through the financing of social infrastructure, basic needs, and
informal sector projects. The PHIS has a limited life of three years.
It is clearly seen by both the Government and by donors as an instrument
to complement and not compete with the line ministries who have serious
capacity limitations and are not currently in a position to respond
quickly to an emergency situation nor to long-term sectoral issues.
Through its simplified procedures and methods of operations, the FHIS
could also play a role in improving the efficiency of social services by
exercising a demonstration effect on line ministries, as was achieved in
the case of Bolivia.
1.24         Recognizing the lack of capacity of the social ministries
to address the long-term issues of health and education efficiently and



- 8 -
equitably, the Government has requested the Bank's support to improve
service delivery of the MOH and MOE. This would be addressed under a
proposed social sector restructuring operation.
1.25         Another important measure taken by the Government has been
the introduction, on a pilot basis, of a food coupon program. This
program, vhose initial budget allocation for 1990 was about US$6.5
million, is expected to benefit single mothers vith children attending
pre-school and the first three grades of primary education. The program
has run into logistical difficulties, but is being currently improved
and broadened with the help of the Association to meet the requirements
in terms of administration, targeting of beneficiaries, and
institutional capacity of executing agency (paras. 2.34-2.39).
1.26         Finally, the Government recognizes the need to improve and
complement its existing program of household surveys to put more focus
on data analysis to analyze the impact of programs in the social sector
and improve decision making.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.27         Recognizing the efforts of the Honduran Government to
undertake a bold program of economic reforms, the Bank approved a Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) in September 1990 and the
Association is proposing a US$20 million equivalent credit to supplement
the financing provided by SAL II (para. 1.5). While, in the long term,
the structural reforms of this program will help alleviate poverty, in
the short term it will have negative social effects. This proposed
project is designed to address the short-term effects of SAL II (by
supporting the FHIS) and to contribute to the formulation of a long-term
program for the social sectors which would lead to a more equity-
oriented development and to an efficient provision of services (through
other elements of the project as described in paras. 3.6-3.8). The Bank
can be helpful in transferring the experience acquired in its support to
the social sectors in Bolivia, Jamaica, and other countries of the
region. In addition, the Bank's role in chairing the Consultative Group
for Honduras puts the Bank in a unique position to mobilize external
grant or soft loan funds to help the government alleviate the impact of
the economic reform program and initiate broader social sector reform,



II. THE GOVERNMENT'S EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROGRAMS
A.  The Social Investment Fund
Obiectives and Approach
2.1        The main objective of the FHIS is to help protect and improve
the standard of living of marginal social groups living in rural and
urban areas during the period of economic adjustment through the
provision of employment and improved services. The main strategy of the
YHIS is employment creation, but through the financing of social
infrastructure, the FHIS will also help improve the standard of living
in poor rural communities where malnutrition and illiteracy rates are
high and Government services scarce because af the limited reach and
institutional weakness of line ministries. The project would not only
targ4.. the people who lost their job as a result of adjustment, but it
would also cover those who belong to the traditional poverty group and
suffer more severely as a result of the economic adjustment. Those
employed on PHIS-financed projects are expected to be blue collar
workers from the construction industry and other industries affected by
economic adjustment.
2.2       The FHIS expects to meet its objectives through the financing,
in the form of grants, of labor-intensive subprojects in the following
areas:
a)   Social Infrastructure: This program (described in detail in
Annex 3) would include: (i) the rehabilitation, maintenance,
and construction of pre-primary and primary education centers
(including schools), health centers and posts, water and
severage systems, public wholesale and retail markets, public
service facilities (used for the delivery of social programs),
collection centers, community laundry facilities, bridges,
drainage and irrigation canals and retention walls; (ii)
rehabilitation of ruins aiming at protecting cultural heritage
and ethnic minorities; these projects would be supported,
provided they generate significant employment at reasonable
costs; (iii) improvement, maintenance and cleaning of streets
and roads; and (iv) forestation and reforestation. This
social infrastructure component would represent about 652 of
the FHIS program and would be executed by private contractors,
NGOs, municipalities, and public sector agencies;
b)   Basic Needs Proiects: This would represent 202 of the total
program and is described in details in Aunnex 4. The PHIS
would finance: (i) nut-lition, through the provision of
breakfast in primary and pre-primary school and breakfast
centers (lactarios) and expansion and diversification of food
production in family farm plots; (ii) health through training
of primary health care staff (traditional birth attendants,



- 10 -
health promoters and health guardians), acquisition and
utilization of furniture and equipment (including cold storage
equipment for vaccination), and development of primary health
care community programs; (iii) education, through the
development of primary and pre-primary programs (including
early stimulation), acquisition and distribution of
ecicational materials, libraries and school furniture, and
teacher trainin8g and (iv) development of community programs
for ethnic minorities. The target population of the basic
needs program would be pregnant and lactating women and
children aged 0 to 12 years. It would be executed by NGOs
(Annex 5 provides an overview of NGOs in Honduras), private
and public sector agencies. It vould require significant
promotional effort from the FHIS as well as identification of
dynamic and serious executing agencies.  This is not an
overall national program, but rather a number of local and
regional efforts to complement the strategies and programs of
MOH and MOE. Regarding nutrition programs, the FHIS appraisal
criteria, spelled out in the Operational Manual, will ensure
that the subprojects complement and not duplicate existing
Government nutrition programs. The FHIS will give priority to
the poorest areas which are not yet covered by other programs,
such as the pilot food coupon, or Government food distribution
programs;
c)   Informal Sector Projects: The cHIS would provide technical
assistance to NGOs, and would make funds available to NGOs for
lending at market rates to help expand micro-enterprises in
the productive and service sectors. This program would
represent 72 of the FHIS program. Terms and conditions for
financing of informal sector projects (Annex 11) would be in
accordance with the Operational Manual whose approval is a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit;
d)   Institutional Strengthening of FHIS and Executing Agencies:
Institutional devel.opment of FHIS through: (i) the improvement
of FHIS ability to promote, design, target and monitor
subprojects; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to
improve FHIS institutional capacity, inter-alia, in designing
its information system, auditing and evaluating the impact of
its operations, and identifying, preparing, appraising
supervisory and promoting subprojects; and (iii) technical
assistance to NGOs and other executing agencies to improve
preparation and execution of projects financed by FHIS. This
would represent 1.52 of the FHIS program; and
e)   Administration of PHIS: Administrative costs would represent
6.52 of the FHIS total budget which is considered efficient.
This estimate w6s made by extrapolating the current operating
costs of the FHIS after ten months of operations and adjusting
them to a total program of US$68 million. Comparison with



- 11 -
other social funds shows the Bolivia Social Investment Fund
operating at 62, and the proposed Haiti and Guatemala funds
projected ;o operate at an administrative cost of 10 percent.
The Bolivia Emergency Social Fund (ESF) had operating costs of
only 3 percent, mainly as a result of its high volume of
operations: US$200 million over three years, i.e., about three
times the volume of US$68 million projected for the FHIS.
Institutional Structure
2.3       The FHIS was created by decree No. 12-90 dated February 22,
1990.  The most salient features of the FHIS law are: (i) the FHIS has a
life of three years which started on March 2, 1990, (ii) it is a
financing and not an executing entity, (iii) it is subject to external
audit, and (iv) it provides for FHIS to regulate its public contracting
through its own special procedures.
2.4       The creation and operation of the FHIS were declared a high
priority by Lic. Rafael Leonardo Callejas, President of the Republic.
This priority is reflected through an initial budget allocation of 25
million lempiras (about US$6 million) to the FHIS for 1990, which is a
significant amount in this period of austerity in Honduras. Clearly,
the FHIS has solid support at all levels of the Government, and is given
high priority by all Government agencies, including the Central Bank,
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Health (MOH), the
Ministry of Education (MOE), and the Ministry of Planning ISECPLAN).
2.5       The FHIS has a Board of nine members whose composition is as
follows: the President of the Republic (Chairman), the President of the
Congress, the Ministers of Planning, Labor, and Finance, the Executive
Director of the FHIS (appointed by the President of the Republic), a
representative of the private sector associAtion, one of cooperatives,
and one of NGOs. There has been a clear effort to provide a balanced
representation with the inclusion of the private sector, cooperatives,
and NGOs. Board members have a mandate of one year and membership is
renewable.
2.6       The Board meets every quarter and (i) approves general
policies and rules of operation, (ii) approves the annual budget, and
(iii) authorizes the FHIS to contract loans. It does not undertake
subproject approval which is left to the operations committee. This
committee is headed by the Executive Director, and includes the
Directors of the Projects, Administration, External Financing,
Supervision, and Legal Departments.
Target Population
2.7       Several mechanisms ensure that subprojects are adequately
targeted to the poor. First, subprojects financed by the FHIS offer
wages that screen out the non poor. Wages paid on FHIS-financed
projects are the market rate for unskilled heavy labor, and therefore



- 12 -
would ensure that beneficiaries of the subprojcts are individuals in
the lowest dociles of the Honduras income scale. This wage level will
be reviewed twice a year through a comparison between earnings of FYIS
beneficiaries and those of the general population to ensure appropriate
tsrgeting.
2.8        In addition, through its project selection criteria (Annexes
3 and 4), the FHIS assigns priority to the population living in extreme
poverty. To target its actions and ensure that its funds reach the
poor, the FHIS has programmed the distribution of its expected funds by
ranking the 18 departments and 290 municipalities of the country, using
the following poverty indicators: population, child malnutrition, and
access to potable water and basic sanitation. These indicators have
been used to produce a departmental and municipal index of poverty and
to assign additional resources to the poorest departments and
municipalities. The use of child malnutrition rates and access to water
and sanitation as the main criteria for targeting is satisfactory
because they usually coincide with low income levels, high illiteracy
rates, low enrollment rates, and high infant and maternal mortality and
morbidity rates.
2.9       The FHIS has also improved its project selection criteria to
ensure that its financing reach not only the town where the municipal
government is located, but also to the villages which need strong
support, as their population is usually poorer and Government services
scarce. In the poorer areas, the FHIS will make a special targeting
effort as demand will not come naturally because of the lack of capacity
to prepare projects. FHIS will ensure that its projects benefit the
poor through: (i) project and beneficiary selection criteria, (ii)
increased promotion in poorer areas, (iii) special incentives to
sponsoring agencies and community groups that present projects in poorer
localities, and (iv) offering more technical assistance to those who
lack project preparation capacity.
2 10      Finally, sectoral allocation of funds and a weighting system
*1Lo ensure that projects are targeted to the poor.  The programing of
funds by sectors ensures that basic needs projects, which have a direct
impact on poverty, would represent at least 20 percent of the overall
program. Within the social infrastructure component, an important
criterion for subproject selection is the use of a weighting system that
gives priority to subprojects providing the highest social return (Annex
3). For example, on a scale of 1 to 4, water and sewerage subprojects
which have important health benefits have a priority 1 whereas roads
have a priority 3.
Organization and Staffina
2.11      The Government of Honduras has appointed as Director of the
FPIS a highly respected and dynamic businessman. His responsibilities
as Minister covers not only the FHIS, but also that of special adviser
to the President. At negotiations, it was agroed that the experience



- 13
and qualificattons of the Zxecutive Director of IBIS would b- acceptable
to the Association and that any future appointment for the TIIS
xzecutive Director's position would be subject to prior IDA
consultation.
2.12      The FHIS organization (Annex 2) closely resembles that of the
succeesful Bolivia Fund.  The IBIS h.  six department.t projects,
administration and finance, monitoring and supervision, external
financing, legal, and data processing. The projects department is
divided according to the main programs of the IBIS.  Its professional
staff of 34 includes 20 civil engineers as well as economists, lawyers,
accountants, and computer specialists. The higher level staff has been
screened and selected in close consultation with UNDP. Almost all the
department heads have graduate degrees from abroad and their competence
is usually equivalent to the highest level in the public sector. The
UNDP technical assistance contract provides for the financing of
competitive salaries for directors and unit chiefs.
Technical Assistance
2.13      The FHIS has received considerable technical assistance from
UNDP which has helped design the project and prepare the law creating
the PHIS. UNDP has also been supporting the IHIS through: (i) providing
for the payment of the salaries of the top executives, (ii) financing of
logistical equipment (jeeps, computers, telephones, fazes, radios,
copying machines, furniture, etc.), (iii) providing a full-time adviser
who has done an excellent job in his nine months with the YHIS, and (iv)
financing of short-term consultants (which has allowed the FHIS, for
example, to start adapting the Bolivia ESF data-processing technology).
As of February 1991, the present contract will be extended by 28 months,
i.e., it will cover the entire life of the FHIS.
2.14      The Association has reviewed and is satisfied with the draft
proposal of UNDP whose technical assistance would continue to finance
salaries of top executives, equipment, and a full-time adviser. In
addition, short-term consultancies would provide support to: (i)
complete the preparation of operational manuals, (ii) help the FHIS
design certain specific programs, in particular the basic needs program,
(iii) establish a computerized accounting system, (iv) design a
computerized system to program and target resources and evaluate
results, (v) create a computerized project cost data base by type of
projects and regions, (vi) establish a system to monitor and evaluate
the impact of IBIS-financed projects, (vii) help the FHIS mobilize
external funds, and (viii) strengthen the capacity of executing agencies
to design, execute, and supervise projects susceptible of financing by
the IBIS. With an office in Honduras and a full-time adviser within the
IBIS itself, UNDP has a clear comparative advantage in administering a
technical assistance program.



- 14 -
Program Targets and CaDacitv
2.15      Since its creation on March 2, 1990 and up to December 31,
1990, the PHIS has approved the financing of 1,113 projects representing
a total of US$6.9 million. This is a significant effort considering
that the FHIS is a new institution that has had to organize its
administrative structure, recruit its staff, design its operating
procedurc;s, inform potential beneficiaries and executing agencies of its
objectives and methods of operation, as well as coordinate with line
ministries and agencies to complement their efforts. The FHIS
disbursements were also limited by its amount of financing available
(mostly the Government, USAID, and UNDP). In addition, the PHIS
objective of covering all 290 municipalities in the country has made
processing more difficult because of the large number of sm-all projects.
Twenty-two percent of FHIS financing has been used for water projects,
19% for sewerage and latrines, 15% for education and health
infrastructure, and the balance for other sectors such as drainage,
urban improvements or road maintenance. The average subproject size has
been US$6,200 and 24 projects exceeded US$50,000. Subproject size is
expected to increase considerably once more financing is available and
small projects are packaged together. Close supervision will ensure
that the expected mix of projects will be met. The Association's
approach, however, would remain flexible; should a changing environment
require a different mix in projects financed by the FHIS, the
Association and the Government would agree on an appropriately justified
modification.
2.16       In the document presented to the Paris Technical Workshop on
Poverty Alleviation in June 1990, the PHIS estimated a disbursement
program of US$200 million over three years. Upon further analysis this
turned out to be an excessively ambitious target. Experience elsewhere
has shown that, when estimating the potential program for a social
investment fund, the determining factor is not the size of demand but
the capacity of the agency to mobilize financial resources and promote,
appraise, and supervise subprojects. On this basis, a program of US$68
million over two years was considered to be more appropriate. This
estimate is based on sectoral estimates of demand, extrapolations from
FHIS present pipeline of projects, FHIS' operational capacity, expected
improvements in efficiency, and likely availability of financial
resources.
Main Participants in FHIS Proiects
2.17      The main participants in FHIS projects are: (i) the
beneficiaries, the communities who will benefit directly from the FHIS
through the project in terms of income, employment, health, nutrition,
and education; (ii) the soonsoring agencv, the institution with full
legal entity, responsible to present a subproject to the FHIS and
receive the funds (e.g. municipalities, public sector agencies, or
NGOs); (iii) the executing axencv, the agency or contractor in charge of
executing a FHIS project and responsible for the selection of personnel



- 15 -
who will undertake the project. It may be the sponsoring or another
agency or may slso be an individual with the proper qualifications; and
(iv) the su2ervising agencv, in cases where the sponsoring and executing
agencies are the same, the PHIS will appoint a third party to undertake
supervision.
Proiect Promotion. Identification and Preparation
2.18      Identifying and preparing projects is the responsibility of
beneficiaries and sponsors, but the FHIS provides advice to them through
a promotion unit. The PHIS promotor establishes the first contact with
the beneficiaries and their sponsoring agency and determines the
feasibility of the project, based on the FHIS criteria. The promotor
makes the first judgment on a project and passes it to the Projects
department for appraisal. Alternatively, the promotor can help the
sponsoring agency reformulate the reluest. For larger projects such as
water and roads, project preparation is satisfactory as these projects
are referred to the FHIS directly by SANAA and SECOPT who have the
adequate capacity to prepare projects either directly or through
subcontracting.
2.19       Since its creation, the FHIS has also undertaken more general
promotional work. It has undertaken seminars for mayors in most of the
country's 18 departments, the list of approved projects is published
every week in the press, ads are run on television, and the Executive
Director travels extensively throughout the country. This is a positive
effort which the FHIS intends to sustain and improve, by programming
these seminars more systematically, especially in the poorest areas, and
including a greater participation of other Government agencies as well
as NGOs.
2.20      Project execution will be subcontracted by municipalities to
private or public contractors, and NGOs who have better capacity than
municipalities to prepare projects.  However, there are clearly cases
where, because of their extreme poverty and isolation, some rural
municipalities do not have the adequate institutional capacity for
preparing project profiles and for bidding.  In these instances
technical assistance will be provided under the project. Identification
of municipalities needing assistance and their actual needs is just
being started and will be further carried out during the project life.
2.21      The FHIS will contribute to local institutional building in
Honduras both in the short term and in the long term. In the short
term, institutional building will come from participating in FHIS-
financed subprojects. Beneficiaries themselves (who participate
directly in the execution of a subproject, e.g. contributing to the
repair of a health post), municipalities, NGOs, and churcheo would
improve their knowledge of the FHIS procedures and criteria and would
become more efficient at preparing and executing projects. In the long
term, this institutional building would be an important legacy of the
FHIS, i.e. a network of decentralized institutions technically and



- 16 -
administratively competent to design and execute development projects in
their respective local comunities.
Proiect A02raival
2.22      All subproject requests are forwarded by the Director of the
Projects Department to the appropriate sections (e.g. social
infrastructure or social projects) for evaluation. The appraisal staff
reviews subprojects and undertakes a site visit with the sponsor. To be
more efficient, site visits of various sub-projects are grouped
regionally. Agreement is reached with the sponsoring agency on the
conditions for subproject approval. A subproject report is then
prepared, revised by the Projects Director and sent for approval to the
Operations Committee.
2.23      The scope and process of subproject appraisal depends on the
complexity and types of subprojects being financed by the FHIS. The
first criterion applying to all subprojects is to ensure that they reach
the poorest segments of the population, according to methods described
in paras. 2.7-2.10. Other technical, financial, social, institutional,
and environmental criteria are included in the operational manual of the
PHIS. They are described in details in Annexes 3, 4, and 11, and are
summarized here.  For sonial infrastructure subRroiects, appraisal
criteria cover technical feasibility, labor content, cost sharing,
economic rate of return as much as applicable, cost per beneficiary when
the economic rate of return cannot be applied, and institutional
arrangements for sustainability and cost recovery. In appraising basc
needs subgroiects, the focus is on cost per beneficiary, implementation
capacity of executing agency, the agency's financial state, and the
ratio of administrative costs over total subproject cost. In the case
of informal sector subgroiects (consisting of revolving funds managed by
NOOs for lending to small informal sector enterprises), the appraisal
would focus on implementation capacity of NGO, financial strength, an
experience of at least three years in the field, and audit by
independent external auditors. Moreover, the FHIS would ensure that
lending rates for final beneficiaries are at market rates. Finally,
priority would be given to revolving funds with the highest return on
investment and with the widest geographical coverage.
2.24      The FHIS has recently taken a number of important measureso to
strengthen its project appraisal function: (i) the functions of
promotion and appraisal were separated, (ii) prototype appraisal reports
have been prepared, (iii) selection criteria were improved for
infrastructure projects, including analysis on cost recovery, cost
sharing with local beneficiaries and sponsors, and internal rate of
return calculations will be used, vhen applicable, (iv) a cost control
system is being introduced, (v) the data processing system adapted from
the Bolivia ESF is being implemented by a qualified and experienced
computer specialist recruited to head the data processing department,
and (vi) the program of basic needs has been developed including the
promotion manual, the manual of selection of executing NCOs, and the



- 17 -
appraisal manual; a unit chief in charge of basic reeds was recruited to
that effect.
Proisct Ah2roval
2.25      The Operations Comittee is the altimate instance for
subproject approval. This comittee is composed of the Executive
Director (Chairman), and the Directors of the Projects, Legal,
Administration, External Financing, and Supervision Departments. It
m eto each week and reviews a package of projects. Sponsoring agencies
are then informed by letter and through nevspapers, of the Operations
Coiittee's decision and contracts are signed.
Proiect ImDlementation and SuDerviilon
2.26      Because of the limited capacity of municipalities, FRIS has
decided to introduce a different contracting system under the project
whereby civil works and construction subprojects are carried out by
local private contractors, NGOs or public agencies under the supervision
of either the sponsoring agency or, if it is judged to lack the capacity
to do so, a technical agency such as SECOPT or an NGO. Social projects
are typically carried out by an NGO under the supervision of a
Government department or another NGO. Each project is covered by a
three- or four-party contract between the PHIS (as the funding agency),
the sponsoring agency, the contractor (where appropriate) and the
separate supervising agency. In a number of exceptional cases, the FHIS
will contract directly with municipalities.
2.27      Under the above contracting system, the FHIS will disburse a
portion of the cost of each project directly to the contractor as a
mobilization advance upon signing of the contract, against receipt of a
bank guarantee. For a limited number of subprojects located in areas of
extreme poverty and isolation, tno bank guarantee would be required.
Thereafter the FRIS makes partial payments every two or four weeks
covering the percentage of vork completed, the latter having to be
certified independently by both the FHIS field representative and the
supervising agency (vhen the .ase applies).
2.28      The FHIS is currently reorganizing its supervision department
so that its large number of projects may be efficiently supervised. To
improve productivity, procedures are being reviewed and projects under
supervision are being regrouped by geographical zones each to be
attended by a staff. The other options being corsidered by the PHIS
are: (i) the possible opening in 1991 of four or five regional offices,
using existing facilities of Government institutions and staffed with
one project officer and one secretary each, and (ii) the subcontracting
of supervision to other entities such as engineering firms and NGOs.



- 18 -
ODerational Manual
2.29      The FHIS Operational Manual is made up of several parts
covering the functions of administration, promotion, appraisal, and
supervision in the various sectors financed by the FHIS. The part of
the manual covering social infrastructure and basic needs projects was
reviewed extensively and found satisfactory to the Ae.ociation. The
part of the manual on informal sector projects will be completed in line
with the procedures and criteria described in Annex 11. As the FHIS has
not yet financed any informal sector subprojects, most of the
retroactive financing would apply to social infrastructure and basic
needs subprojects whose procedures applied by the FHIS are satisfactory
to the ADsociation. It was agreed that, as a condition of
effectiveness, the rHIS would complete and start implementing an
operational manual, satisfactory to the Association. At negotiations,
i. was agreed that any change to the manual that could affect the
carrying out of the project could not be made without IDA's prior
approval.
Coordination with Ministries
2.30      The FHIS is making serious efforts to coordinate its
operations with line ministrias and agencies, more specifically MOH,
MOE, the Ministry of Publl: "Xorks (SECOPT), the Water and Sewerage
Authority (SANAA), and the Municipal Bank (BANMA). There is an
excellent relationship between the FHIS and these Government entities.
The PHIS is viewed clearly as an institution with a limited life of
three years whose purpose is to complement the line ministries during a
period of adjustment and its projects are geared to fit into the long-
term plans of the ministries. The FHIS is already following the
ministries norms and standards in its projects (e.g. prototype
architectural designs for schools). The FHIS informs the ministries of
its projects by fax, and the ministries have a week to reply on a non-
objection basis. The FHIS also meets with the ministries once a month
to review their respective pipeline of projects. It also meets
regularly with other financiers such as USAID or IDB who finance many of
the ministries' programs. At negotiations, it was agreed that the
Borrower would follow the necessary measures to cover the investment and
operating costs of subprojects financed by the FHIS, as well as the
operating expenses of the FHIS.
Manaxement Information Svstem
2.31      The PHIS has been adapting the Bolivia management and data
base system to the Honduran context. The setting up of the methodology
was started with the help of the former Director of the Appraisal
Department of the Bolivia ESF who has undertaken regular consultancy
assignments with the FHIS. This technology transfer from another Bank-
financed operation is appropriate because the current emergency
situation in Honduras is similar to that prevailing in Bolivia at the
time of the ESF. Saving time on the design of the management



- 19 -
information system has also liberated the time of the IHIS staff who
have been able to concentrate on promotion and project processing.
2.32      The system currently consists of 12 interconnected personal
computers and uses an adapted vereinn of the Bolivia ESF software. It
allows management to track the large volume of transactions, analyze
operational statistics by region and sector, thus facilitating decision.
making, accounting, and reporting.
B.   The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Program
2,33      Given the time required for the economic adjustment to beat
its fruits, the poor will go through a period of hardship. Many will be
helped through the FHIS programs, but still there will be a significant
number who will remain acutely vulnerable. Because of their reduced
purchasing power, their nutrition level will most likely deteriorate and
even their lives may be at stake. This specially applies to pregnant
and lactating mothers and children under five years old.
2.34      There is thus a need to ensure a minimum level of nutrition to
this vulnerable group. Such a need started to be identified by the
Government when it introduced a food coupon in March 1990. The program
started slowly because there was no institution clearly in charge. On
August 7, 1990, the Family Assistance Program (PRAF) was created through
Government Agreement No. 1208-A. The PRAF's main objective is to
provide special protection to women and young children facing
nutritional risks. It operates with rdsources frcm the Government's
budget and from donations. The PRAF has a Board of Directors composed
as follows: the President of the Social Welfare Board (Junta de
Bienestar Social) who is President, the Minister of Finance, the
Minister of Labor, a reprasentative of the Federation of Women's
Associations, a representative of FOPRIDEH (the largest association of
NGOs), and the Executive Director of the PRAF. The Director of the PRAF
is appointed by the Prs4ident of Honduras and the PRAF's executive unit
is financed directly from the Presidency's budget.
2.35      The PRAF has been in charge of the single mothers coupon whose
execution started in March 1990. The program ran into some
difficulties, but this experience has allowed the Government to detect a
number of problems arising from the design of the program. Three
salient examples: (i) as the program was run exclusively through
BANASUPRO stores, there was a frequent lack of basic foods, and
beneficiaries preferred to buy commodities that were available, e.g.
coffee, rather than wait for nutritive products such as milk or beans
which may or may not arrive before the expiration date of the coupon,
(ii) the face value of the coupon was too large (L 20) and indivisible,
and (iii) the administration of the program was cumbersome and there
were frequent delays because of complicated signature requirements.
2.36        Through the Regional Unit of Technical Assistance (RUTA),
the Associations has been helping the Government to evaluate the food



- 20 -
coupon system and improve its design and implementation. In December
1990, the revised nutrition assistance program started to be
implemented, under he responsibility of PRAF, through the health system.
It is targated to mothers (all mothers, not just single mothers) and
children under five and is being undertaken in two poor regions: one
rural and one urban. There vould be 14,000 beneficiaries in the
selected rural area and 10,000 in thsu urban area. The composition of
beneficiaries is expected to be as follows: 16,000 children 0 to 5 years
old, 4,000 pregnant women, and 4,000 lactating mothers. This pilot
program will allow the Government to test organization of services,
targeting mechanisms, logistics, distribution channels, redemption of
coupons, through banks, and the management of the program. The total
cost of this pilot program is estimated at US$400,000 for a period of
six months. After this period, the Borrower will decide, through the
mid-term review, whether it is feasible to expand the program at a
national level. The three main components of the cost are the coupon
themselves (US$240,000), setting up the PRAF administrative structure,
the logistics of the program, and support for the Ministry of Health to
implement the program and prepare for expansion of coverage
(US$180,000). Detailed cost figures are available in Annex 9. This
program would ultimately replace the single mothers program which has
been significantly slowed down, but not yet officially canceled.
Because of a strong early political commitment of the Government to the
single mothers program, some time was considered necessary to undertake
the transition between the two programs.
2.37      While the PRAF is th.ie administrator of the p)rogram, it uses
existing institutions including the facilities of tht MOH, the Ministry
of Finance, the Central Bank, commercial banks, anA paeticipating
stores. The eystem is expected to work as follows. A food coupon to
purchase basic staple foods (maize, rice, oats, bf;ts, fat, and milk) is
distributed to all mothers and children attending htaoe.th checkups in
health posts and centers in specitfed geographical ateas. MOH will
ensure that adequate measures are taken for the adest.qre staffing of
health posts and centers. Thus the program would be oelf-targeted (as
upper-income families go to private clinics and net t'- ':alth posts) and
would combine the nutrition progr,ma with maternal and O,iid health care.
An important issue to be tested by the pilot program is whether the MOH
will have the capacity to operate properly the food co%..'p-.n program
without affecting its normal operations, or whether adtritonal capacity
would have to be built up. Another important objective of the pilot
program will be to verify, through a survey of beneficisiries, whether
the ch&nnelling of coupons through the Honduran health cxre system
ensures adequate targeting. While the health system does zkot have as
extensive a coverage as in Jamaica (where a food coupon program is being
implemented successfully), it is considered a better alterrative than
others available. The results of this pilot program will help decide
whether this channel is satisfactory or whether it should be
complemented or m2dified.



- 21 -
2.38        Mothers would benefit from coupons of total value L 20
(US$3.60) per month and each child would receive L 10 (US$1.80) per
month. Based on a food basket recommended to beneficiaries, the coupon
would provide a 301 supplement in calories and proteins to mothers and
children participating in the program. Based on an average family size
of a mother and three children, this would represent an income transfer
of US$108 a year, i.e. 22 percent of the average annual income in
Honduras. The food basket is designed to provide a total of 2500
calories per day to mothers and 1475 per day to children. The target
amount of daily protein is 61.0 and 28.5 grams, respectively. Each
coupon would have a small denomination of L 5 (mothers would receive
four per month and children two), which allows flexibility in purchases.
Also, in case of inflation, it would be easy to increase the number of
coupons allocated to each beneficiary. The beneficiaries use the coupon
to buy food at a local store participating in the program and the local
store redeems the coupon against cash at a commercial bank which is
itself funded by the Central Bank. A table showing the respective flows
for coupons, food, and money is presanted in Annex 9. The proposed
project would support the design and start-up costs for this targoted
nutrition assistance program (but not the food itself which will be
financed by the Government).
2.39      This pilot program has several advantages over the single
mothers programs (i) it has a broader targeting which is more cost-
effective, (ii) the distribution channel includes both private and
public stores, thus ensuring a better availability of food, (iii) the
denomination of coupons is *malles and provides flexibility of use, (iv)
there is a better logistical planning and organization, and (v) the
institutional responsibility for carrying out the program has been
clearly assigned (to the PRAF). A pilot program is considered essential
for the success of a food coupon program because it allows to adapt the
design to the particular conditions of a country. Lessons can be drawn
from experiences elsewhere, such as the Jamaican food stamp program, but
conditions in Honduras are different, such as coverage of the MOH,
geographic distribution of the population, or topography. Because of
the small scale of the pilot program, lessons can be learned quickly and
the system can be modified in a flexible way. Furthermore, if errors
are made, their economic and political cost is small. Should the pilot
program demonstrate results more rapidly than anticipated, an expansion
to the national level could be considered earlier (e.g., after 3
months).
C. The Social Sector Restructuring Proaram
2.40      The GOH has been spending a relatively high share of its GDP
(over 10) and total government spending on the education and health
sectors (between 14.32 and 21.3S in education, and between 71 and 10.31
in health in the period 1979-89). The problems of low coverage of the
health sector and of poor outcomes of the education sector are mainly
the result of inefficient use of resources and inappropriate allocation
in the budget with an increase in financing of recurrent costs



- 22 -
(salaries) and a dramatic decrease in investment in capital assets and
supplies in both ministries. For instance, from 1980 to 1989, while the
total spending on health and education increased, spending in wages and
salaries increased from 39% of total expenditures (e%cluding transfers)
to 631 in health, and from 80Z to 971 in education. During the same
period, MOH expenditures for goods and Pervices and investments for
primary health care, sanitatio' and vector control decreased by 141, and
MOE expenditures for the rehabilitation of primary schools and basic
equipment and supplies, especially in the rural areas, decreased by 211.
In addition, budget allocations favor curative care (hospitals received
51.41 of health expenditures in 1988) and post-primary education (post-
primary education received some 751 of education expenditures in 1986)
which benefit mostly the urban nonpoor, which is not equitable given
that 61S of the population of Honduras live in the rural areas.
2.41      Considering that the FHIS will be a temporary institution, the
institutional limitations and lack of implementation capacity faced by
the line ministries, the GOH has expressed great interest in the
preparation of a social sectors project for Bank financing, possibly in
cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank, aimed at
addressing ths long-term issues of inefficiency and inequity in the
ministries of health and education. The Government has yet to work out
a detailed social sector development strategy and restructuring program,
although it is well aware of the issues in the health and education
sectors and the need to restructure both sectors. The proposed project
would provide technical assistance to help the Government prepare such a
sectoral restructuring program.
D.   The Living Standards Measurement Study
2.42      Honduras is a member of the United Nations Survey Capability
Program and has a well-designed program of household surveys.
Currently, the main survey instrument is the Multiple Purpose Permanent
Household Survey (MHS) which gathers information on demography,
education, migration, employment, and income together with additional
modules covering specific topics that rotate in and out of the survey
periodically such as the informal sector, consumption of basic grains,
seasonality in rural employment, and activities of women. Two surveys
are conducted each year, with the next ones planned for April and
September 1991. The General Statistical Office (DGE) has demonstrated
its capability to collect and process data quickly within this system.
While data collection is fairly comprehensive, further improvements are
still required to allow better analysis by the Government and improve
decision-making.
2.43      The Government plans to introduce four essential elements to
design a national social information system in Honduras. The first
element will incorporate consumption into the MHS. Using information on
consumption is almost universally recognized as preferable to using
income to identify living standards. By crossing family consumption
with data on participation in specific social programs, it will be



- 23 -
possible to estimate the targeting and nature of coverage of such
programs. The second element vill introduce a survey of communities and
areas identified by the FHIS as being of high priority into the MHS.
This survey will capture information on social services, market prices,
and other aspects of the socio-sconomic environment, thus providing
measures of the policy interventions that affect living standards. By
combining community level and household level data, analyses of demand
for services and program impact can be carried out. Through the third
element, comparison of FHIS beneficiaries with the general population
will allow to evaluate the targeting of the most important compensatory
program of the Government, the FHIS, and demonstrate how to evaluate
targeting of specific social programs. Finally, several specific
studies seminars will emphasize the analysis of the data generated and a
demonstration of how information can be used to improvo policy
decisions.



- 24 -
III. TH PROJECT
Origin of the Proiect
3.1       Preparation of this project started during the second half of
1989 vhen SECPLAN requested UNDP and ILO to prepare a social investment
fund project. These two organizations responded quickly and
efficiently. A project proposal was prepared, largely adapted from the
Bolivia model and presented, in October 1989, to the presidential
candidates, the private sector, NGOs, trade unions, and international
institutions including the Association. All showed interest in the
project, and significantly the most supportive of the idea was candidate
and future President Callejas. Within two months of the new
administration, the PHIS was approved by Congress vith a tripartisan
vote, the Executive Director was appointed, and the FBIS started its
operations. RUTA undertook two visits to Honduras in April and May
1990, and the Association undertook an identification mission in May
1990, a pro-appraisal mission in August 1990, and an appraisal mission
in October 1990. The project scope was broadened to provide support to
the Government's overall social sector strategy (paras. 1.22-1.26) with
most of the financing, however, going to the FHIS. Through the June
1990 Technical Workshop on Poverty Alleviation, the December 1990
Consultative Group meeting in Paris and individual meetings, the
Association has maintained close contact with potential donors.
Objective
3.2       The objective of the proposed project is to support part of
the Gov(-nment's social orogram to: (i) mitigate the social costs of
adjustment and allow economic reform measures to be put into place
rapidly and make them acceptable to the popvi;ation, (ii) lay the basis
for a targeted food assistance program to support the poor and
malnourished, and (iii) improve service delivery in the social
ministries.
Descrintion
3.3       The project would finance all four components of the
Government's program: (i) the financing of FHIS programs as described in
paras. 2.1 and 2.2 (more than 952 of total project cost), (ii) support
to a pilot targeted nutrition assistance program (the executing agency
would be the Family Assistance Program), (iii) technical assistance to
help design a program to improve the efficiency and equity of the
services of MOH and MOE (the executing agency would be SECPLAN), and
(iv) the setting up of a monitoring and ivaluation system of the
Government's social policy interventions through a Living Standards
Measurement study (the coordinator of this program would be SECPLAF with
the technical support of UNDP).



- 25 -
3.4       The proceeds of the Credit (SDR14.3 million) would be lent to
the Republic of Honduras, which would pass on SDR13.94 million
equivalent as a 8rant to the PHIS. The FHIS, in turn, would use the
Credit, in conjunction with funds from other international donors and
the National Treasury, to finance, on a grant basis, sub-projects in
local communities implemented by private contractors, NGOs, and public
agencies under the technical supervision of appropriate agencies. The
Borrower vould make available the balance of SDR360,000 equivalent to
the respective institutions (PRAF and SECPLAN) in charge of implementing
parts (ii) - (iv) of the project. As a condition of effectivoness,
agrooments for making the funds available by the Borrower to the t138,
*nd arrangements for the s*au purpose with PRAY and SECPLAN,
satisfactory to the Association, will have been entered into.
3.5       The PHIS comDonent is defined to includeo si) about three
years of PHIS financing comitments including social infrastructure,
basic needs, and informal sector projects (as described in paras. 2.1-
2.2), (ii) financing of logistical support for the PHIS such as
vehicles, computers, and (iii) institutional support consisting oft (a)
consultants for technical assistance to the PHIS in dealing with all
phases of the project cycle, designing its information system, auditing
and evaluating the effectiveness and impact of its operations, etc.; (b)
financing of PHIS executive staff salaries and allowances by the
Government and UNDPI and (c) training programs both for FHIS staff and
for cooperating public and private entities.
3.6       The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Program.  This component
(described in paras. 2.34-2.39) will finance a pilot project to test the
logistics of a food coupon program for poor mothers and children under
flive, its acceptability by beneficiaries and participating stores, and
the availability of foods. The program will be undertaken during an
initial period of six months in two regions, one rural, and one urban,
vith a targ.'t population of 24,000 mothers and children. This component
will finance consultants' studies, vehicles, materials, overheads of
PRAY, printing of coupons, and incremental costs such as partial
salaries of auxiliary nurses distributing the coupons in the health
posts.
3.7       Social Sector Restructurina Program.  This component
(described in paras. 2.40-2.41) would finance technical assistance and
studies to help the Government prepare a social sector development
strategy. The proposed technical assistance and studies would focus on
the development of: an agenda for reform of social programs, a plan to
verify and document the results of implementing this agenda, including a
social budget, an annual review of the social system, and a program of
analysis and evaluation of social programs.
3.8       The Living Standards Measurement study.  This component
(described in paras. 2.42-2.43) would provide technical assistance to
start developing a monitoring and evaluation system of the Government's
social policy interventions through a Living Standards Measurement study



- 26 -
including evaluations of the FHIS operations and enhancement of the MHOS
to better inform policy decisions.
Implementation
3.9       The FHIS.  The financing of emergency projects in the social
infrastructare, basic needs, and informal sector will be implemented by
the FHIS. The FHIS' current staffing criteria, and monitoring
procedures for identifying, preparing, appraising, implementing sub-
projects (described in Chapter II A paras. 2.5-2.32) were reviewed by
the Association and are satisfactory.
Table 1:  SUMMARY PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign      Total
----- US$ million -------
I. FHIS
A. Subprojects
Social Infrastructure      30.6           13.1      43.7
Basic Needs                11.4            2.0      13.4
Informal Sector Projects   3.2             1.0       4.2
Subtotal                   45.2           16.1      61.3
B. Institutional Support       0.6            0.4        1.1
C. Recurrent Costs             4.1            0.3        4.4
D. Monitoring
and Evaluation              0.04           0.02      0.06
Subtotal FHIS             49.94          16.92     66.86
II.  PILOT NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM          0.38           0.04      0.42
III. SOCIAL SECTOR
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM       0.2            0.2       0.4
IV. LIVING STANDARDS
STUDY                        0.3            0.02      0.32
TOTAL COST               50.82          17.18     68.00



- 27 -
3.10      The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Protram.  This component will
be implemented by PRAP and will be operated through the existing
infrastructure of the MOH.
3.11      Social Sector Restructuring Proaram.  This component will be
implemented by SECPLAN who will undertake the studies in coordination
with the MOH and MOE.
3.12      The Living Standards Measurement study.  This component will
be implemented by SECPLAN.
Proiect Costs and Financint Plan
3.13      The total project cost, net of taxes and tariffs, is expressed
in October 1990 prices and is estimated at US$68 million equivalent.
Foreign exchange costs (US$17.1 million) represent 25 percent of the
total project cost. Since the project includes a substantial portion of
financial operations for which physical targets are unimportant and the
project implementation is relatively short, no contingencies have been
provided. Any increase in average subproject cost would be reflected in
a reduction in the number of subprojects executed. The costs of FHIS
components are based on FHIS actual costs in 1990; the pilot nutrition
assistance program costs are based on the on-going nutrition program;
the costs of the social sector restructuring program and the living
standards study are based on the average cost of technical assistance
provided by UN agencies in Honduras.
3.14      The FHIS.    Total cost for the FHIS is estimated at about
US$66.9 million, excluding taxes and duties. As the program is defined
in financial terms without specific physical content, no contingency has
been calculated. Any further increase in the average subproject cost
would be reflected as a reduction in the number of subprojects executed.
A oummary of project cost is shown in Table 1 (Annex 6 contains a
detailed cost table).
3.15      The estimate of FHIS subprojects reflects a consensus of
sector specialists (water and sewerage, rural roads, health and
education, and NGOs). A large number of projects in all these sectors
have been on the shelf of ministries for a number of yearl3 because of a
lack of executing capacity and complicated bureaucratic p;-ocedures.
Total demand actually exceeds FHIS capacity and project size was
estimated based on FHIS estimated subproject processing capacity in
years 2 and 3 together with capacity of prirate contractors, NGOs,
Government agencies and municipalities to execute subprojects.
3.16      The Pilot Nutrition Assistance Proaram.  The nutrition
assistance program is estimated to cost US$420,000. The cost of the
food for the 24,000 beneficiary families would be paid by the Borrower.
Other costs would be financed by the Association and other donors and
include studies, vehicles, materials, overheads of PRAF, printing of
coupons, and incremental recurrent costs such as partial salaries of



- 28 -
auxiliary nurses distributing the coupons in the health posts. The
operation of the program through the existing infrastructure and
services of the MOH, vill reduce significantly the overall operating
costs. IDA financing would include 100S of tho start-up costs up to a
total of US$165,000.
3.17      Technical Assistance to Design a Social Sector Restructurina
Proar. This component would finance consultants and studies estimated
*t US$400,000 in the areas of institutional development, social sector
planning, and improvement of health and education services. It would be
executed by SECPLAN which would receive support from UNDP regarding
selection of consultants.
3.18      The Livint Standards Measurement study.   This component vould
finance consultants, studies, and computer equipment estimated at
US$320,000. This cost includes two rounds of a community survey, two
surveys of beneficiaries of FHIS (2,000 households each), equipment to
facilitate transfer of data across different systems, four specific
studies, and a seminar.
3.19      Financina Plan.  The proposed IDA credit of SDR14.3 million
equivalent (US$20.0 million equivalent) would represent about 29 percent
of total project cost. Local beneficiaries (including ultimate
beneficiaries, municipalities, NGO or other entities) would contribute
US$7.0 million. The Borrower contribution would be US$8.0 million and
would finance recurrent costs of the FRIS over three years up to a total
of about US$4.5 million, and the balance would be used to finance FPIS
subprojects. It is estimated that the Borrower will have to provide
capital and recurrent budgets for this project as follows (in US$
million equivalent):
1991  1992  1993  1991-93
Capital                      1.6   2.1   1.5   5.2
Recurrent                   0.8   1.2   0.8   2.8
Total                      2.4   3.3   2.3   8.0
The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany has indicated that it
intends to contribute US$12.0 million on highly concessional terms,
through KFW, subject to a satisfactory appraisal of the project; USAID
that its participation would be US$8.0 million; the Government of the
Netherlands that it would contribute US$2.1 million in a joint financing
with UNDP; and UNDP by itself will provide US$600,000 for technical
assistance. Other funds totalling US$1.8 million have been approved by
the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), UNICEF, Spain and Japan. This
would leave a gap of US$8.5 million which would need to be mobilized
from other donors on concessional terms. Should this gap not be filled



- 29 -
alternative flnancing arrangements for an equivalent aount with other
donors), as well as receipt by the FHIS of firm commitments for
coflnancing, satisfactory to IDA, for a total amount of US$10.7 million
equivalent from additional financiers (i.e. USAID, the Netherlands, and
UDP), will be requlred as a condition of effectiveness. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower, that at least
US$10.7 million equivalent have been formally cooitted by addltlonal
fLnancLers, and that agreements between the Borrower and addLtional
fLanciLers for the same amount would have become ffectlve by June 30,
1991. Annex 7 provides a detailed financing plan.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
USS Million
Government                                   8.0
Beneficiaries                                7.0
IDA                                         20.7
USAID                                        8.0
KPW                                         12.0
GTZ                                          0.2
CIDA                                         0.5
UNDP                                         0.6
Netherlands/UNDP                             2.1
UNICEF                                       0.1
Spain                                        0.6
Japan                                        0.4
Others                                       8.5
Total                           68.0
Procurement
3.20         Although the Article 5 of the law creating the FHIS
provides for FHIS to regulate its public contracting of works and goods
through procedures based on contract amounts (it does not explicitly
exempt the FHIS from the procurement provisions of the Contracting Law
of the State), procurement under the proposed project would be carried
out in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Assurance* were
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would *gree upon procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association. A sumary of methods of
procurement is shown in Annex 10.
3.21         Social infrastructure projects are expected to total about
US$43.1 million equivalent and to cost on average about US$20,000 each,
vith the biggest single project costing no more than US$500,000. For
civil work contracts below US$70,000, local shopping would apply, up to
an aggregate amount of US$18.3 million. Local shopping is a procurement
method based on comparing price quotations obtained from several
contractors, usually at least three, to ensure competitive prices.



- 30 -
Local shopping for this size of civil works is justified because most
subprojects will be quite small demanding little, if any, use of heavy
construction equipment. Most works will be carried out in scattered
places in 290 municipalities over a period of about two years. Under
these circ..umstances, it is extremely unlikely that large domestic
contractors will be interested in bidding for small civil works. For
some project components in remote locations, there will be no
alternative but direct contracting, with the understanding, howevar,
that this procurement procedure will be applied under exceptional
circumstances. To award contracts in cases where only one offer would
be available, the FHIS has agreed to establish a system of standard unit
regionalized prices on the basis of which the FHIS or the implementing
agency will negotiate the price directly with the contractor. This
system of contracting will apply for contracts up to a maximum amount of
US$35,000 each, and up to an aggregate amount of US$10.5 million, of
which no more than US$4.0 million would be financed under the proposed
credit. This schedule of standard regionalized unit prices will be
maintained ieriodically and updated by FHIS at least every six months.
This procedure will also apply for basic needs subprojects to be carried
out by NGOs or community organizations. This procedure is acceptable to
the Association in view of (a) the importance of administrative
simplicity for handling about 20 contracts per week, (b) the very slow
and unsatisfactory experience with of the procurement law which is not
adapted to emergency situations, and (c) the recurrent audit system
which will review procurement on subprojects on a quarterly basis
(paras. 3.35-3.36). Monitoring procedures would be set in place to
ensure that (i) contracts are not divided into smaller packages for the
purpose of awarding smaller contracts under direct contracting, and (ii)
there is no excessive concentration of contracts awarded to the same
individuals or contractors.
3.22            Local competitive bidding (LCB) would apply to civil
works contracts between US$70,000 and US$500,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$23.8 million. Very little, if any, international
competitive bidding (ICB) ts expected because of the decentralized
nature of FHIS operations Lnd the small size of subprojects. However,
to the extent possible, works would be combined in packages of
US$500,000 or more and contracts would be awarded on the basis of ICB,
in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
3.23         For &oods, ICB will apply to contracts above US$250,000 (to
the extent practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more). LCB
procedures acceptab'e to the Association will apply for contracts
between US$25,000 and US$250,000, and local shopping for contracts of
less than US$25,000. This is shown in some details in Annex 10. Local
and regional preferences, in accordance with IDA's guidelines, may be
granted only to local manufacturers under ICB contracts for goods.
3.24         Consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA's
guidelines for the use of consultants. Taxes paid in Honduras by



- 31 -
foreign consultants on the foreign currency portion of their contracts
would be borne or refunded by the FHIS.
3.25         During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Borrower regarding the inclusion in the legal documents of the following
procuroment provisions to resolve conflicts between local lgislation
and IDA's guidelinos: (A) for works and goods to be procured under LCB:
(i) contracts should be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid, (ii)
foreign firms should be allowed to bid without prior registration and
should not be required to have a local agent, or associate themselves
with local firms, (iii) foreign firms should not be required to certify
that, in their country of origin, Honduran firms are allowed to
participate under equal terms for contracting, (iv) in calculating the
lowest evaluated bid, there should be no requirement to take into
consideration the financial cost of foreign expenditures, (v) there
should be no preferences to award contracts to Honduran firms, and (vi)
no slicing of contract amounts will be permitted for the sole purpose of
reducing contract price amounts; and (B) for Consultants' services: (i)
foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate freely in the
oelection process even if local consultants shall be available for the
concerned services, and (ii) no registration with national associations
shall be imposed on foreign consultants employed by foreign contractors
or consultants and no mandatory association with local firms shall be
required.
3.26         Propriety in contracting will be safeguarded in a number of
ways: (a) simple procurement practices, either in accordance with IDA's
guidelines or satisfactory to IDA, are being included in operational
mantuals under preparation by the FHIS; (b) provision is made for
training and technical assistance for contracting and administration of
projects; (c) for most smaller municipalities, the FHIS will provide
consultant contract managers to assist in the implementation of project
administration and, concurrently, provide training and technical
assistance; (d) projects will be supervised regularly by PHIS field
staff or contracted specialists; and (a) external auditing of PHIS and
executing agencies will be carried out on a continuous basis, covering
both financial records and physical progress.
3.27         Prior review of bidding documents and contracts by IDA will
be required for all ICB contracts. For LCB contracts and for local
shopping, the first two contracts of each kind (i.e. for goods and for
works) would be reviewed by IDA. The balance would be subject to ex-
post review by the Bank after the contract award. To explain clearly
IDA's guidelines and help set up bidding documents and procedures IDA
would provide the Hondurans technical advice from a procurement
specialist. Direct contracting would be subject to a satisfactory
review by IDA every six months of the standard regionalized unit prices
adopted by the PHIS.



- 32 -
Supervilion *nd Re2ortint
3.28         The project would require intense supervision from the
Association, given its complexity. As shown by the experience of the
Bolivia Emergency Social fund, significant resources should be allocated
for that purpose if the project is to be successful. The Association
would undertake regular supervision missions (at least three times per
year and more during the first year) which would include field visits
and spot checks of a sample of projects.
3.2q9        The PHIS would submit to the Association semi-annual
progress reports (not later than three months after the end of each
semester) including the following information by region and sectors (i)
projects presented, appraised, in execution, completed, and evaluated
ex-post including number of projects and beneficiaries, amounts
committed and executed and average cost per beneficiary per project;
(ii) sources of funds for each subproject; (iii) PHIS's key personnel
and consultants indicating the changes that have taken place during the
reporting period; and (iv) operating costs of the FHIS.
3.30         The Association would examine ex-ante a sample of projects
to be financed during the first year of the PHIS. This sample would
consist of a minimum of five subprojects in each of the main sectors
(social infrastructvre, basic needs, and productive) or 20 percent of
all projects in any given sector, whichever is smaller. For the
following years, the Association would require ex-ante review of
projects costing more than US$250,000. Total number of projects would
represent about one percent of all FHIS subprojects.
Disbursements
3.31         The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of
about three years, to be completed by December 31, 1993. The last date
for presentation of subprojects by FHIS to the Association would be
December 31, 1992. Subproject activities supported by the Credit are
expected to be completed by March 2, 1993, the expiration date of the
life of the FHIS. The closing date of the Credit will be December 31,
1993. The project completion date would be June 30, 1993 (i.e. six
months before the closing date). The disbursement schedule ends
December 31, 1993, i.e. 10 months after the termination date of the
IRIS. It would allow IDA to disburse for expenses made before the
tormination of the life of the IHIS in an account that would be opened
by the Government to that effect, and through procedures satisfactory to
the Association. Furthermore, the FHIS law allows for a possible
extension of th& life of the FHIS. Should this happen, the proposed
disbursement schedule would provide adequate flexibility.
3.32         The expected disbursement profile (Annex 8) is shortor than
the profile for LAC projects in the social sector, but is consistent
with profiles for credit projects, which the proposed project resembles



- $3 -
more closely. Also, the subproject implementation period cannot exceed
the life of the PHIS which is limited to three years.
3.33         Disbursements would be made against the following
cateogrios of expenditure: (a) FIRS subproiects: 90 percent of
disburements by FHIS approved on or before Deceiber 31, 1992 according
to the FHIS' project selection and evaluatica procedures; (b) Consulthnt
Services for pHIS, 100 percent; (c) Auditors Services for FHIS: 100
percent; (d) Goods for FHIS and PIAF: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; Consultant Services
for PlAF and SKCPLANt 100 percent. Retroactive financing of up to
US$2.0 million equivalent (SDR1,430,000) would be permitted in respect
of eligible expenditures incurred since November 1, 1990.
Documentatlion of Exnenditurel
3.34         Withdrawal applications for goods and services with a
contract value of US$250,000 or more will be supported by full
documentation.  Contracts of le  than US$250,000 and disbursements
against expenses not undertaken by contract will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would
be maintained by FBIS and would be made available for review by IDA
staff. It was agreed that a Special Account would be opened in the
Central Bank of Honduras, wlth en initial deposit of US$2.0 million
equivalent. This would correspond to about four months of expenditures
required under the project. Documentation forwarded to the Association
for disbursement (SOEs or full documentation) would cover a number of
projects whose aggregate sum would be at least US$1.5 million.
Accounts and Audits
3.35         The FHIS would be audited by private independent external
auditors, acceptable to the Association, who would undertake quarterlv
audits of the FHIS' operations. This type of auditing combines
fin&ncial revision with physical inspection of works in the field. The
auditors would examine a sample of subprojects, review the individual
contracts, ascertain whether the terms of these contracts are complied
with, inspect the progress of works, would reconcile the physical
progress with the financial expenses incurred, and would state whether
procurement guidelines era being resphcted. The auditors would prepare
quarterly reports for tht ioard of the FHIS and for the Association and
other donors (to be submitted not later than two months after each
quarter), ^nd an annual summary would be sent to the Association. The
auditors vould review a significant sample of projects, acceptable to
the Association. Quarterly reports would focus on projects whore errors
have been detected and would state that all other projects examined were
in accordance with the terms of their contracts.
3.36         Private independent external auditors, acceptable to the
Association, will also undertake annual audits of the FHIS. Not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the FHIS would submit



- 34 -
to the Asscciation certified copies of audit reports containing balance
sheets, income statements and auditor's opinion of financial statements,
as vell As separate opinions on: (i) project accounts, (ii) statements
of expenditures, (iii) the Special Account, (iv) whether procurement of
all ccntracts was carried out in acc;ordance with agreed guidelines, (v)
an analysis of whether the FHIS is achieving its objectives in a cost
effective way and whether internal controls in place are adequate to
minimize the possibility of misuse of funds or other improprieties, and
(vi) a summary of quarterly audits of the subprojects.
Cost Recoverv
3.37         Cost recovery provisiDns are included in the operational
manual. Cost recovery would take .'istinct forms depending on the type
of subproject. In the case of social infrastructure, the local
committees or municipalities carrying out FHIS financed projects would
recover sufficient funds from water rates, betterment taxes and
voluntary contributions to cover the costs of operation, maintenance,
and occasional repairs of water and sanitation systems as well as access
roads. The local committees would set up and administer revolving funds
for these purposes. If the committees choose to do so, these revolving
funds could also be used for service expansion. In the case of basic
needs subprojects (health, nutrition and education), fees will be
limited to those services or items where this is legally possible. For
example, modest fees will be charged for medicines to replenish stocks.
Finally, the funds made available by the FHIS to NGOs for lending to
microenterprises would be passed at market rates with the repayments
used by the NGOs for further loans to such enterprises.
Recurrent Costs
3.38          To enhance the sustainability of subprojects, it would be
necessary to provide for the operating costs of these subprojects beyond
FHIS support. As noted in the case of social infrastructure (e.g. water
supply and road projects), municipalities and the communities would
assume operating and maintenance costs after subproject completion. At
the stage of subproject preparation, a formal commitment would be
required from line ministries, communities, or other agencies
responsible to ensure that they would cover the operating cost of a
subproject during and beyond FHIS support. This is a prerequisite for
appraising subprojects to be financed by the FHIS and is included in the
operational manual of the FHIS (para. 2.29).
Monitoring and Feedback
3.39         Monitoring and evaluation of FHIS' project implementation
would be measured regularly at two levels. First, supervision of FHIS
subprojects would provide internal efficiency indicators such as average
cost per beneficiary, number of school breakfasts distributed, number of
children having benefitted from school rehabilitation projects, and
would measure real benefits provided under FHIS subprojects to the



- 35 -
beneficiary communities through comparison of pre- and post-project
data. Monitoring would be carried out during the project cycle using
the following documentation: (i) community profile providing the
baseline information on the community access to basic social
infrastructure (water, latrines, roads) and services (health, nutrition,
and education) and their use; and (ii) subproject ex-post evaluation
report. These reports to be prepared by the FHIS would have a
standardized format by sector and type of project. Second, two surveys
to be carried out by SECPLAN under the project will be used to evaluate
the impact of the FHIS on employment generation aspect and to validate
the targeting criteria defined during preparation to ensure that they
are appropriate to direct resources to the poorest segments of the
population. Third, a study will assess the investment impact of social
infrastructure and basic needs subprojects financed by the FHIS, in
particular regarding targeting, costs per beneficiary, and rate of
return, when applicable. Fourth, a study of the community
characteristics associated with the submission of projects to the FHIS
will be used to assess the factors that determine communities capability
to present projects to the FHIS. The Ministry of Planning (SECPLAN)
supported by UNDP and technical assistance from the Bank would design
and implement these evaluations.
3.40         Terms of reference for the monitoring reports and the
schedule for the surveys and studies were agreed upon during
negotiations. These data, together with regular auditing (paras. 3.28
and 3.35), would be fed into the management information system. They
would enable FHIS managers to gauge the relative impact of each
component in terms of the FHIS objectives, and would allow them to make
any necessary adjustments to improve the effectiveness of FHIS
operations. For instance, FHIS may find low demand for health projects
in areas with high infant mortality rates and may wish to shift its
resources to strengthen promotional work in these areas.
3.41         During negotiations, it was agreed that, by December 31,
1991, the Borrower would conduct a mid-term review of progress in the
implementation of the project. The results of this review would be
discussed with the Association and the Borrower would take, by not later
than January 31, 1992, all actions deemed appropriate by the
Association.
Women's Participation
3.42         The FHIS will assign 20 percent of its resources to
subprojects on basic needs (health, nutrition and education). All these
subprojects would be presented and executed by NGOs and community
organizations, thus providing a systematic channel for women's
participation in the improvement of their household's and communities'
well-being. The main groups to which basic needs projects would be
directed include women, particularly female heads of households,
pregnant and lactating mothers, and their children up to 12 years of
age. Within the basic needs program, high priority would be assigned to



- 36 -
subprojects on maternal and child primary health care, health and
nutrition education, and primary education (Annex 3). In addition, the
pilot nutrition assistance program is exclusively targeted to women and
children under five.
Enviromental Effect.
3.43         Since its creation, the FHIS has been quite attuned to the
issues of environment, culture, and ethnic minorities. It has recently
recruited a full-time staff in charge of environmental and cultural
projects. An interesting project of the PHIS, now under execution,
consists In helping protect the Copan ruins from erosion caused by
occasional floods from a nearby river. While this project protecut the
country's cultural heritage, it is also labor-intensive and io currently
one of the largest employers in tho Copan area. Another project
consists In providing support to an isolated group of Jicaque Indians
living on Montana de la Flor. Another potential positive contribution
of the mS to the improvement of the environment would be the financing
of reforestation projects, which is one of the categories included in
its list of potential projects. The operational manual of the FHIS will
ensure that all subprojects financed by the FHIS in various sectors
(water, roads, etc.) do not advorsely affect the environment and
indigenous cultures. Because of the financing of rural and urban water
and sanitation, limited ex ante environmental analysis is required as
part of the subproject approval process which will be spelled out in
detail in the operational manual. Contents of the manual regarding
euviroont and indigenous cultures have been reviewed and found
satisfactory.



- 37 -
IV. BENEFITM AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits   By transferring resources to poor urban and rural
coomunities, the FdIS vould help too (i) create employment nd income
largely among the poor segment of the population whose living conditions
would be sore severely affected by adjustment, (ii) improvo the social
infrastructure so that the beneficiaries enjoy better sanitation, lower
transport costc, lose erosion damage, etc., (iii) reduce the rates of
mortality, malnutrition, and illiteracy, particularly among women and
children, and (iv) provide the Governrent experience with a
decontralised mechanism for delivering social services. By supporting a
pilot food coupon program, the project would ensure en appropriate
design while limiting possibilities of errors to a small scale, and
would lay the basis for a broader nutrition program.
4.2       Risks. The risks associated with excessive speed of response
are that funds would be poorly used and diverted to uses not envisaged
in the project. This risk vould be reduced substantially through clear
subproject selection criteria, a good information systm, quarterly
audits, and close supervision. There are also risks associated with the
food coupon program as poor design and targeting may result in waste of
resources and affect the Government's image. For this reason, it is
proposed to start vith a pilot operation vhich can identify and solve
logistical problem. on a small scale.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
pointat
(a) that the experience and qualifications of the Executive
Director of the FHIS would be acceptable to IDA end that any
future appointment for the FHIS Executive Director's position
vould be subject to prior IDA consultation (para. 2.11);
(b) that any change in the operational manual that could affect
the carrying out of the projet vould not be made without IDA's
prior approval (para. 2.29);
(c)  that a funding agreeomnt of US$12 million equivalent between
the mS end the KfW (or alternative financing arrangements
for en equivalent amount with other lonors), end that
agreements from additional financiers, providing the mS with
a total financing of US$10.7 million equivalent, would have
becom effective by June 30, 1991 (para. 3.19);



- 38 -
(d)  that the Borrower would take the necessary measures to cover
the investment and operating costs of subprojects financed by
the FHIS, as well as the operating expenses of the FHIS
(paras. 2.30, 3.19, and 3.38);
(e)  that FHIS would follow procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Association (para. 3.20);
(f)  that a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank
with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million equivalent (para.
3.34);
(g)  that the PHIS would maintain an acceptable set of accounts,
have them audited every quarter, submit these periodic reports
not later than two months after each quarter, and submit
annual audit reports not later than 6 months after each fiscal
year under terms of reference for the external auditors
acceptable to the Association (para. 3.35);
(h)  that FHIS would submit to the Association semi-annual progress
reports (not later than 3 months after the end of each
semester) on subprojects approved for financing and monitoring
and supervision arrangements (paras. 3.29 and 3.40); and
(i)  that the Borrower would conduct a mid-term review of the FHIS
by December 31, 1991, discuss its results with the Association
and implement, by not later than January 31, 1992, all actions
deemed appropriate by IDA as a result of this review (para.
3.41).
5.2       Conditions for the credit effectiveness would be the
following:
(a)  that the Association has received and approved a copy of the
operational manual of the FHIS, satisfactory to the
Association and that this manual is being implemented
satisfactorily by the FHIS (para. 2.29);
(b)  that agreements for making the funds available by the Borrower
to the FHIS, and arrangements for the same purpose with PRAF
and SECPLAN, satisfactory to the Association, have been
entered into (para. 3.4); and
(c)  that a funding agreement of US$12 million equivalent between
the FHIS and KEW (or alternative financing arrangements for an
equivalent amount with other donors) will have been entered
into and that at least US$10.7 million equivalent have been
formally committed by additional financiers for the project
(para. 3.19).



- 39 -
Recommendation
5.3       Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the propoced
project would constitute a st%itable basis for an IDA credit of SDR14.3
million (US$20.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras on
standard IDA terms with 35 years of maturity including 10 years of
grace.



ANNEX I
- 40 -                           Page I of 9
SOCIAL INVESTMENT MIND pgCOjECT
ORGANIC TAW OF THll RIS
THE GAZETF
OFFICIAL BULLETIN OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
DEAN OF THE HONDURAN PRESS
No. 000808
DIRECTOR: JOURNALIST LISANDRO QUESADA
YEAR CXIV    TEGUCIGALPA. D.C. HONDURAS    FRIDAY. MARCH 2. 1990  NUMBER 26.07
CONTENTS
DECREE NUMBER 12-90
FEBRUARY, 1990
NOTICES
CONGRESS
DECREE NUMBER 12-90
THE NATIONAL CONGRESS
CONSIDERING:  That national development requires an agency essentially
geared toward the financing and promotion of improvement of standards of living
of social groups on the fringe, both rural and urban, through an increase in
their productivity, their income, and employment levels.
CONSIDERING:   That the most adequate mechanism to assist the above-
indicated social groups should assist in the improvement of their standards of
living through their incorporation into the economic and social process.
CONSIDERING:   That che agency to be created should have a basically
supplementary character with respect to governmental measures.
CONSIDERING: That the mechanisms through which the agency will operate
should include the necessary elements allowing for efficiency and effectiveness
in the development of concrete actions to be carried out.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
THEREFORE
IT DECREES
The following
HONDURAN FULND FOR SOCIAL INVESTMENT LAW
CHAPTER I
GENERAL
Article 1.  The Honduran Fund for Social Investment (FHIS) is hereby
established, and heretofore will be referred to as the "Fund," as a decentralized
agency of the Presidency of the Republic, with limited duration, endowed with
legal status, its own equity, and within the limits of this Law, with
administrative, technical and financial autonomy.
The domicile of the Fund will be the city of Tegucigalpa, C.D. and it may
open offices in other cities within the country.
Article 2. The Fund shall have a duration of three years, and such period
may be extended by the President of the Republic, through a Decree from the
Council of Ministers.
Article 3. The Fund's objective shall be the promotion and improvement
of the standards of living of the social groups on the fringe in rural and urban
areas through the financing of social or economic development projects and
programs intended to increase their productivity, their income and employment
levels, and to contribute to meet their basic needs.
CHAPTER II
SCOPE
Article 4. The Fund, for purposes of Article 1 of this Law, shall have
the following scope:
a)    Negotiate soft loans with national and international agencies with
conditions consistent with the Fund's objectives and requirements;
b)    Accept donations,  estates, wills and any type of contributions,
national or foreign; in cases of national grants, their values will
be tax deductible with respect to income taxes;



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
c)    Negotiate and contract non-reimbursable funding from national or
international agencies with conditions consistent with the Fund's
objectives and requirements;
ch)   Promote and fund programs and projects favoring productive self-
employment, and the organization and improvement of smal businesses,
micro-businesses, rural and urban cooperatives, community development
leagues and associations, rural businesses and other forms of
productive association, whose members belong to the Fund's target
groups;
d)    Promote  and  finance  works  whose  main  characteristic  is  labor
intensive,  if  and  when  they  are  related  to  rural  or  urban
development;
e)    Promote and fi.nance temporary or seasonal job-generating programs
and projects for urban and rural groups affected by emergency
situations or by the difficulty of their insertion in the labor
market;
f)    Promote and finance programs and projects to satisfy basic needs,
if and when these are in support of groups benefitting from any
financing discussed under (a) through (e) above;
9)    sign the public works and purchase contracts for goods and services
necessary to attain their goals; and
h)    implement  all  other  duties  indicated under  this  Law  and  its
Regulations.
Article 5. The Fund will approve the designation of the public or private
agency that will implement the program or project financed with its resources
subject to the dispositions of these Regulations.
In the cases where the projects require public works or procurement
contracts, the Regulations will indicate the selection procedures for contractors
to be applied in each case.
Article 6. Public agencies and entities shall be required to cooperate
with the Fund, if and when it requests assistance in complying with its mandate.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
CHAPTER III
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
FIRST SECTION
THE FUND'S BODIES
Article 7. The Fund's bodies will be the following:
a)    The Administrative Executive Council;
b)    The Board of Directors, and;
c)    The Internal Auditors.
SECOND SECTION
THE ADMINISTRATIVE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
Article 8. The Administrative Executive Council, heretofore referred to
as "The Council," shall be composed as follows:
a)    The President of the Republic, who shall name his alternate;
b)    The President of the National Congress, who shall designate his
alternate;
c)    The Minister of Planning, Coordination and Budget, or the alternate
he designates.
d)    The Minister of Labor and Social Security, or the alternate he
designates.
e)    The Minister of the Treasury and Public Credit or the alternate he
designates;
f)    The Fund's Executive Director;
g)    A representative and an alternate from the business sector;
h)    A representative and an alternate from the cooperative movement; and
i)    A representative and an alternate from the private development
agencies.
The procedure to be followed to select representatives from the
organizations referred to under (g), (h), and (i) in the present Article, shall
be indicated in the Regulations.



- 44 -
Page 5 of 9
Article 9. The Council shall be chaired by the President of the Republic
or his alternate and during their absence, by the Minister in the order indicated
in the preceding Article.
Article 10. The Council shall have the following duties:
a)    Approve the policies and general guidelines regulating the Fund's
activities;
b)    Approve the Fund's annual budget;
c)    Authorize negotiations to contract the loans required by the Fund
for its lending operations;
ch)   Submit to the Executive Power the necessary draft regulations for
the implementation of this Law;
d)    Hold ordinary meetings every three months and extraordinary meetings
as often as necessary; and
e)    All other duties assigned under the corresponding Regulations.
Article 11. The Council may invite representatives of other public and
private agencies to its meetings, who shall have voice but no vote.
THIRD SECTION
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Article 12. The Board of Directors shall be formed by:
a) The Executive Director;
b)    The Operations Committee; and
c)    The hired professional, technical, and administrative staff.
The Fund's internal organization shall be as established under the
corresponding Regulations.
Article 13.  The Executive Director shall be named and removed by the
President of the Republic and shall meet the following requirements:
a)    Be a natural Honduran citizen and be in full exercise of his civil
rights; and
b)    Be recognized as an honorable person and have the ability to perform
his duties.



- 45 -
ANN EX 1
Page 6 of 9
Article  14.   The Executive Director  shall be  the highest executive
authority of the Fund and shall have the following duties:
a)    Hold the Fund's legal representation under the expressed request of
the President of the Republic;
b)    Direct the institutional operations and implement the Council's
decisions;
c)    Select the staff and sign the pertinent contracts for professional
or technical services;
d)    Prepare and propose to the Council the Regulations for this Law and
all others that may be necessary;
e)    Request the Council's authorization to contract external auditors;
and
f)    All other duties assigned by this Law and its Regulations.
Article  15.   Upon the temporary absence or legal disability of the
Executive Director, any of the operational directors designated by the Council
shall substitute him.
Article 16.   The Operational Committee shall be formed as indicated by
the Regulations and shall have among its duties the approval or disapproval of
all requests for financing submitted to the Fund, without limitation to other
duties as assigned by the Regulations.
Article 17. The professional, technical, and administrative staff shall
be selected by the Executive Director based on their personal, professional, and
technical capabilities. The number of staff shall be limited to the strictly
necessary.
The Executive Director shall distribute the staff according to the internal
organization as determined by the Regulations.
Article 18.  The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the
clauses of the signed professional or technical services contracts, which shall
be subject to the Administrative Law in every aspect and shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Administrative-Contested law to rule on all matters derived
from them.
Article 19. Staff expenses shall be financed with the Fund's resources.



- 46 -
ANN EX 1
Page 7 of 9
FOURTH SECTION
INTERNAL AUDITORS
Article 20. The Internal Auditors shall be responsible for monitoring the
Fund's budgetary implementation and financial operations.
Article 21. The Internal Auditors Office shall be headed by an Auditor
directly designated by the President of the Republic, and it shall report to the
Council, without limitation to the monitoring function implemented by the General
Comptroller of the Republic.
Article 22. The Internal Auditors shall have the following duties:
a)    Submit quarterly reports to the Council on the results of their
investigations with respect to each financing granted;
b)    Report  monthly  to  the  Council  on  the  implementation  of  the
administrative budget;
c)    Submit suggestions to the Board of Directors on the operations of
the accounting system so that it takes the actions it deems
convenient; and
d)    Perform monitoring actions without placing obstacles on the decision
making process, restricting itself to making suggestions it deems
convenient in the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Article.
FIFTH SECTION
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Article 23. The Fund shall be subject to external auditing by independent
auditors, without limitation to the monitoring action from the General
Comptroller of the Republic.
Article 24. Reports from the External Auditors shall be reviewed by the
Council for the corresponding legal actions.
CHAPTER IV
ASSETS
Article 25. The Fund's assets shall be constituted by:
a)    Resources derived from contracted soft loans;



- 47 -
Page 8 of 9
b)    Resources assigned by foreign or international agencies, as non-
reimbursable financial cooperation;
c)    Capital recovery from loans granted and the interest earned;
d)    Grants  provided by  the Central  Government  and  the autoniomous
institutions; and
e)    Any type of grants, including estates, inheritances and donations
accepted by the Fund and deriving from Legal sources.
Article 26. Administrative expenses excepting those for staff shall be
funded with the resources annually assigned by the Government, according to the
budget submitted, without limitation to additional grants.
Resources shall be allocated in the budget of the Presidency cf the
Republic, and shall be transferred quarterly, in advance, and deposited by the
Executive Director's Office in a State bank.
Monitoring of these resources shall be the responsibility of the internal
and external auditors, and of the General Comptroller of the Republic, under
the terms established in this Law.
Article 27. Funding granted by the Fund shall be ruled by this Law and
the financing agreements to be signed for each program or project, keeping in
mind at all times the conditions established by the financing sources.
Article 28. The Fund shall be exempt from any type of taxes, fees. and
charges, or from any other national and municipal revenue contributions, present
or to be established in the future. Public - private agreements in which the
Fund is a party shall be exempt from any pr zessing tax, stamps, or any other
revenue charge.
CHAPTER V
FINAL AND TEMPORARY PROVISIONS
Article 29. If the continuing existence of the Fund is not determined,
two months prior to the end of the term indicated in Article 2 of this Law, the
President of the Republic shall constitute a Committee to liquidate it, which
shall have the following duties:
a)    Transfer to the pertinent governmental bodies or institutions the
programs or projects not yet completed to comply with all the pending
responsibilities;
b)    Transfer all financial resources and all other assets from the Fund
to the corresponding governmental bodies;



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
c)    Submit the report of its activities to the President of the Republic
and to the agencies he deems convenient.
Article 30. For purposes of constit' 'ing the Fund, the Government shall
transfer the amount of Lps. 25,000,000 (Twe ty.fiv3 Million Lempiras) charged
to the Income and Expenditure Budget of the Republic, corresponding to the
Nineteen Hundred and Ninety fiscal year.
Article 31.  Regulations for this Law shall be issued by the Executive
Branch and shall become effective from the day of its publication in the Official
Bulletin "The Gazette."
Given in the City of Tegucigalpa, Muniipality of the Central District,
in the Assembly Room of the National Congress, on the Twenty-second day of
February, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety.
RODOLFO IRIAS NAVAS
President
MARCO AUGUSTO HERNANDEZ ESPINOSA
Secretary
CARLOS GABRIEL KATTAN SALEM
Secretary
To the Executive Branch.
Therefore: Implement it.
Tegucigalpa, D.C., February 28, 1990
RAFAEL LEONARDO CALLEJAS ROMERO
President
The Minister of the Planning, Coordination and Budget Departments.
MANLIO DIO"ISIO MARTINEZ CANTOR



HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
i'ERSONNEL                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNAL
AUDIT
DTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE]
|PUBLIC    I    |OPERATIONS  |                                                      NSTITUTIONAL|
= _ _ 1OITTE                                                                   FSTRENGTHEMING| 
Q  I  DATA     I     I    ~~~EXTERNAL      | |A"HI;RTO                               RJCS||CIOIGAD
I  I I POCI SSHG  I  I     FIHAI CIN       I I   AND FINANCE           I                                   IUERVSO
IUPDATING                                            AUDIT!Lrl5
|TRATION ||STRUCTUIRE|  N S   SECT    JSTRUCTURE    EEDSO  SECTOR
A A LS APP SL                                         0



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Social Infrastructure Proiects
A. Programming and Distribution of Resources
1.          The  FHIS  programs  its  financing  according  to:  (a)  regional
distribution; and (b) distribution by sectors.
Rezional Distribution
2.          The FHIS programs its financing by asaigning funds for each of the
290 municipalities of Honduras in two stages.  In the first stage, funds are
allocated to each of the 18 departments of the country; in the second stage, and
using    the    same    procedure,           funds    are    allocated    to
municipalities in each of the departments.
3.          Using the data provided by the 1988 population and housing census,
funds were allocated on the basis of a formula taking into consideration
population per municipality, population corrected through three poverty
indicators: child malnutrition, access to potable water, and access to basic
sanitation as follows:
(a)   In the case of malnutrition, the poverty indicator is the
percentage of malnourished children between the ages of 6 and 9.
The percentage used is the result of a weighted average between
the percentages of severe, moderate and minimal malnutrition.
(b)   For the provision of potable water, the poverty indicator is the
percentage of poorly-served population.  A home is considered to
be poorly served if the water system is located more than 100
meters from the house.
(c)   The poverty indicator for basic sanitation is derived from the
percentage of poorly-serviced homes. This percentage takes into
consideration the weighted average of the percentages
corresponding to homes with no sanitation system at all, homes
with simple latrines and homes with latrines which use the
hydraulic system.
4.          Weighing the potable water indicator at 502, the malnutrition
indicator at 301 and the basic sanitation indicator at 202, the general
poverty indicator for each department was estimated.
5.          Through the standardization of the general indicators of poverty



- 51 -
Page 2 of 7
obtained for each department, a scale vas devised vith ranges between 0 for
thc least poor and 100 for the poorest. Subsequently, through normal
distribution, the budget correction factor vas assigned for each department.
6.          The criteria used to define the budget correction factors
allocates 251 more funds to the poorest department. The total funds
programed for each of the remaining departments was obtained from the
standardized curve. The procedure used for the distribution of the budget for
each department was repoated to distribute the budgets for the municipalities.
7.          The previously described budget distribution totals 92.0  of the
US$68 million; 1.5Z was assigned for institutional strengthening of MS and
executing agencies and another 6.51 vas assigned for administrative
expenditures of the PHIS.
Distribution by Sector
S.          The nation-vide distribution by sectors defined for the  MIS li
the followings 652 for infrastructure projects, 201 for projects in support of
basic needs, 71 for projects in support of production, 1.51 for technical
assistance to other institutions, and 6.52 for administrative expenditures.
B. The Proiect Cycle
Promotlo
9.          The FHIS undertakes significant promotion at the municipal level
for small infrastructure projects. For larger projects such as water,
evwerage, and road maintenance, the FHIS undertakes joint promotion with
Governent agencies such as SANAA and SECOPT.  FEIS also works vith other
inatitutions, such as NGOs, vith a view to financing other types of projects
(basic needs and productive projects) and is defining new promotion strategies
for these types of projects.
Selection of Infrastructure Projects
10.         Receipt and RSaistrv of Proi9ct.  On the basis of the listing of
eligible projects defined for the infrastructure program, the Projects
Department accepts or rejects requests or reformulates them.
11.         Eligible projects which include the IBIS "Request for Financing"
form correctly filled out are registered in the database with their
corresponding code and basic information. If an eligible project includes an
incorrectly-filled form, the staff in chacbe of receiving the projects
instructs the petitioner on how to fill in the necessary data. Requests for
financing vith no mS form are returned to the petitioner with a form to be
filled out.
12.         Once they are registered, projects are reviewed by the Projects



- 52 -
Page 3 of 7
Director or Deputy Director, and then filed according to their geographical
location. The classification of eligible projects is done by dofining road
routes so that project appraisers may plan their visits according to a
predetermined route and optimize their technical visits.
13.         Interinstitutional Coordination.  Once they are registered and
before being filed, projects for potable water or sewerage, roads,
infrastructure in education, infrastructure in health as well as cultural
projects are sent to SANMA, SECOPT, the Ministry of Sducation, the Ministry of
health and the Honduran Institute of Anthropology end History, respectively;
these institutions review the designs and reply on a non-objection basis in a
period no greater than aix days. If there are no technical or policy
objections, the Projects Department with the appraisal.
Apraisal of Proiects
14.         Technical Visits.  Through its filing and planning system, the
Projects Department ensures that all projects are adequately visited by
appraisers. During these technical visits the appraisors verify the
information contained in the "Request for Financing" form, and complete this
information when necessary. Given that infrastructure project appraisers are
civil engineers, they do provide valuable technical assistance to sponsor and
help them fill out the forms with the data for a project. Another important
responsibility of the appraisers during their technical visits is to inquire
about the price of materials and labor in the project location to prepare or
modify budgets based on this information.
15.         Cot   The Projects Department is preparing a cost database for
the entire country. This will apply mostly to small infrastructure projects
and vill be used principally to analyze offers others made by sponsors in the
case of direct contracting. It vill also be used to compare offers made in
the came of local shopping and LCB. Drawing on the experience of the
engineers working for this department, and with information from other sources
from the construction sector, unit cost tables have been prepared for tho most
zopreosentative types of infrastructure projects financed by the THIS. To date
uniit costs of materials and labor force for some 80 activities have already
been dofined.
16.         Concurrent to the inquiry of regional costs by the appraisers
during their technical visits to projects, a list vith the main inputs of
infrastructure projects has been sent to all municipalities for updating of
the uuit cost tables.
17.         The cost information collected by PHIS is being analyzed and
registered by a full-time engineer. Once the collection of regional costs has
been completed, the unit cost analyais systm will be computerized. Contracts
for large projects are awarded through public bidding, and therefore do not
need tn have a highly specialized cost database. Reforence budSets are used
since Lae final financing budget is defined in the bidding.



- 53 -
ANNX 3
Page 4 of 7
18.          ADoraisal.  The PHIS has designed report formats for each type of
project for the infrastructure program. These formats are easy to fill out
and include basic information necessary for the analysis of each project such
as labor force, target beneficiaries, cost per job generated, internal rate of
return, or operation and maintenance guarantees. The main objective of these
appraisal report forms is the collection of basic information in a systematic
way for each project to facilitate the approval process by the Operations
Committee.
Prosect Approval
19.         Projects are approved by the Operations Corittee which meets once
a week.  The Operations Committee is headed by the Executive Director and
composed of the six Operative Directors of the FHIS. The Operations Committee
approves, rejects, or requests the reformulation of a project. Until
October 2, 1990, the FHIS had approved 767 projects of a total 1,217
registered projects (708 infrastructure projects, 31 projects in support of
basic needs, 27 emergency employment projects, and l project in support of
production).
Contract Signing
20.         Once the projects are approved by the Operations Committee, they
are sent to the Projects Department which prepares a memorandum to the Legal
Adviser authorizing the signature of the contracts with the executing agency
who can be private contractors, NGOs and in some cases, municipalities. A
condition prior to all advance financing by the FHIS is the opening of a bank
account for the administration of the funds destinated to a subproject.
Disbursements
21.         According to the type of project and amount to be financed, the
FHIS disburses a percentage of the total sum as an advance to the contractor.
Subsequently, the contractor requests periodic disbursements in accordance
with the progress of the work being carried out. These disbursements are
requested through the FHIS' Department of Monitoring and Supervision which is
responsible to authorize the Administration Department to issue the respective
checks.
Supervision
22.         The FHIS Monitoring and Supervision Department, located in
Tegucigalpa, is implementing follow-up systems with the assistance of its
engineers who periodically visit the projects in execution. Each of these
engineers is responsible for a region of the country. In the case of "large"
projects, each one of them is assigned a resident supervisor, whose financing
is included as part of the cost of the project.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
C. Appraisal Criteria
23.          TVDes of SubDroiects.  A list of 26 categories of infrastructure
subprojects defines the types eligible for FHIS financing (Fig. 1). Through a
points system resulting from the weighting of several elements, this menu
gives priority to subprojects: (a) having a social impact; and (b) generating
significant employment.
24.         TarRet Po0ulation.  The first step to reach the neediest
population is through the programming of funds according to population
corrected by three main regional poverty indicators: indices of child
malnutrition, access to potable water, and access to sewerage as described in
paras. 2-8. To ensure that FHIS financing reaches the neediest population,
FHIS project officers also verify during their field visits that proposed
subprojects are located in these priority areas. As an additional
verification, they also enquire about the average income levels in the area.
25.          Salaries.  The salaries to be paid on FHIS-financed subprojects
have been defined according to heavy, unskilled blue-collar sectoral market
rates that screen out the non-poor.
26.          Labor Content.  The FHIS finances subprojects where labor
generally represents at least 60Z of the project cost.   This percentage will
be lower for projects such as water supply or sanitation which have a high
social impact, but usually a high materials content.
27.         Materials.  To help the country's balance of payments, the FHIS
will favor subprojects with a high local material content. Exceptions will be
made for projects with large social impact such as water supply.
28.         Limit on Administrative Expenses for SubDrolect Execution.  In the
case of direct contracting, the FHIS will constrain the amount of
administrative expenses and profit margins allowed under subprojects. These
will be lower than the usual private sector norms, but adequate enough to
interest contractors to bid on subprojects and ensure quality of works.
29.         Counterpart Financing.  Counterpart financing of at least 5  will
be required by the FHIS to ensure that: (a) good quality subprojects are
presented by sponsors; and (b) that projects will be sustainable beyond FHIS
financing.
30.         Cost Control.  A computerized cost control system as described; in
paras. 15-17 will safeguard that selection of subprojects is undertaken
according to transparent criteria.
31.         Cost Effectiveness.  The main parameters considered are cost per
man-month employed, unit cost per type of infrastructure project, and unit
cost per beneficiary. These unit costs will be used to establish standard
project profiles for each type of project and will help define maximum and
minimum parameters acceptable. Cost effectiveness will be controlled in all



- 55 -
AM 3
Page 6 of 7
cases through the elaboration of prototypes for each type of infrastructure
projects financed by the FBIS.
32.         Technical Viabilita.  Subprojecte vill be appraised according to
standard engineering and other technical specifications.
33.         Economic Rate of Retur.  The mS is developing a simple
methodology to evaluate the economic impact of each kind of subproject. For
water, sewerage, snd drainage subprojects,, n economic rate of return (EU) of
at least 12S will be required for urban subprojects where adequate tariffs
allow such ERR to be contemplated. For subprojects in rural or rurallurban
sonoe where tariffs are not sufficient to attain this ERR, subprojects will be
financed as long as their unit cost per capita does not exceed US$70. For
other subprojocts such as schools or health posts, other parameters vill be
used such as cost per beneficiary.
34.         Sustainabilitv and Cost Recovery.  The interinstitutional
agroments betwean the FBIS and ministries or line agencies ensures that
subprojects are within the sectoral priorities of the responsible institution
who agrees to undertake the operation and maintenance of the subprojects.
Furthermore, to ensure that these agreements are respected, the IHIS will, in
coordination with Government agencies such as SAWA, support or help create
local comittees in charge of maintaining and operating the infrastructure
financod by the IHIS and will provide technical assistance to them. This will
apply most importantly in the cases of water supply and basic sanitation
subprojects.



SOCIAL IJFRASTIUCTURE PROJECTS FIACEO OY TNE FiIS
Priority
Tye of Project                                                  Oescription                                           Speciel Ced1tins                   Rarikin
.... .... ........                                              -----------. -- - - - -- - - -                                                           -- -- -
Repair of Schools                             hultdin, plsyground, fene, or other infrastructur used in  Ony schools in opwration 
pWAic schools
Extension or Construction of Scdoole           Bulding, playround. fenc, or other infrastructure ued in  Only schootc In operstion                                      I
p*ltic schots
Repair of Hoelth Centew                       H"eth Cnters                                                   Only health center  In operation                           I
Extension or Canstruction ot Wetath Center    Hieath Center                                                  Equilnt *nd oepretion to be enurd br sponsor               1
Repair of Ok-cars Centers rd Sblters          Public Oy-cars Centers, Orphanages, g n  Shelters              onLy facl ities fn operatfon                               I
Extension or Conatruction of 0y-Cer  Centers Pblic Day-care Centers Orphuags. w d Shelters                   Equp nt end functioning mat be enured by pon,or            I
end Shelters
markets                                        Refurbfahing of roofs *d sanitation. Construction of *roit  Rents for use of spe  to be cherged by sponsor               3
_rets
Sanitation (Latrines?                          For rural nd aerginrt urban *reas                             Sponor _ -t undsrt b  to train benwficiarioe               I   c
Puiblic Laundies                                ILt infrastructure incLuding provision of water nd           Operation ad mintnnce to be enured by spwonr e
sanitary facilities
Rehabiitation of ruins to protect cultural   Repairs of historical ta cmuntsr  archeotogicat excavatons    Eactuds prifvetely-o    d emenunt  Wd theater               4
heritage
Sewerage                                      So_erage syston_  sptic ui Is, treatmnt ptnts                  Inclde  house cmenntnaw                                   I
Potabte Water                                 Repair or construction of toke, pipe  wnd outlets; public    Excluds hoeurr cmnct1aw                                      I
systens
Road leproven* Pawd with stones or bricks, sidealk bodedr                                                    Sidewalk poving earltudd                                   3
grids                                             tll urban or rural bridge, pedestrian passages                                                                        2
Rood loprovwunt                               loprov ent of Eabwduents and Stop                              Reod urfac  exctuded                                       2
Orainae                                       Drainpipes, cntas, ditches, and gutters                        Drfins ard cwvring of cnlse ditchwe  etc. exluded          3
Retention Wailt                                                                                              Ecno-ec justification required                             S
Irrigation                                    Small frrigstian ditches, _n aid secondery caenle              Piping  xcluded                                            2
Forestation                                                                                                  Spons r to *our m_intwne ; plnting _ternal                 4
exclud d 
Cotlection Centets                             Sileos  nd warehoues                                           ponsor to ensure operation a0  _1intonancess
-J



- 57 -                ANNEX 4
Page l of 5
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Social Sector Proiects
I.    Obiectives
1.   Honduras is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with per capita
GDP estimated at US$481 for 1990. It is in the midst uf a structural
adjustment process that has fundamental implications for the social sectors.
Adjustment will increase growth, employment and income, but in the near term,
it is likely to increase unemployment, reduce real wages, boost prices for
basic consumer goods, and cut into health and education services. Social
indicators in Honduras show that poor health, malnutrition, and continuing low
levels of educational attainment are fundamentally relatG! to the continuing
backwardness of poverty groups, especially those in rural areas of the
country. The GOH has devoted a quarter to a third of its spending to public
education and health each year over the past decade. Both sectors absorb
substantial proportion of resources from the public sector budget (28 percent
in 1988). Taken together, the ministries of Health and Education and
semiautonomous institutions are budgeted to spend about 14 percent of the GDP.
However, current programs accord few benefits to the poor. The sectoral
balance that currently exists is one of the causes of underserving the poorest
groups. Within the health and education sectors, resource allocation is
inefficient and inequitable, emphasizing curative care, technical and higher
education that serve middle income groups. The figures of Table 4.A present
selected social indicators for Honduras and other countries of the region.
2.   The Ministries of Health and Education recognize that today, programs
are not targeted to the poor, the young, the rural areas. They recognize a
potential role for the FHIS as a social safety net for the poor which could
complement existing service gaps at the local level through subprojects
carried out by OPDs, local comunities, private sector and their local level
personnel.
3.   In line with this concept, the target populations for the FHIS
subprojects in the social sectors have been defined as follows: (a) pregnant
and lactating mothers, and children aged 0-5 years for health and nutrition
subprojects, (b) children of pre-primar- and primary school age (5-12 years)
for education subprojects.
4.   In the health and nutrition sector, the objectives of the FHIS are to:
(i) contribute to the reduction of mortality, morbidity and malnutrition among
children aged 0 to 5 years, and (ii) contribute to the reduction of maternal
mortality through the increase in the provision of maternal and child primary
health care. In the education sector, the objectives of the FHIS are to: (i)
increase the coverage of targeted early childhood programs for children under
6 years including nutrition, health and hygiene, early stimulation and pre-
school education, and (ii) support MOE programs for primary education
(children aged 7-12 years).



- 58 -                   ANNn 4
Page 2 of 5
TIble 4.A: HONDURAS AND SELECTED COUNTRIES SOCIAL INDICATORS I/
I GDP   Z Enroll.  S in      Z malnourished
GNP per  S GDP  I  Educe-  primary   extreme   children
Country    Year  capita   Health    tion    school    poverty  (Grades 1& 2)
Honduras    80       550       1.4      3.5       89        61          35.0
El Salvador 88       940       0.7      1.        70        36          50.0 IL
Guatemala   80    1,050        1.5      2.0       70                    28.6
85                1.2                          63
Highlands  86                                                          59.2
Haiti       80       230       0.8      3.4       50        72          30.0
Costa Rica  82    1,810        1.1      8.4       93         159        13.7
Dominican
Republic   80    1,030       2.0       3.0       80        44          27.0
Jamaic4l    80    1,110        3.8      6.5       98        49           7.6
Ecuador     80    1,110        1.8      6.0       90        32          13.3
Colombia    88    1,320       0.8       4.0       90        28          21.0
1/  Selected countries belong to the Central America region and other Latin
American countries of similar GNP level.
2I It includes only central government expenditures.
3/ It includes all 3 grades of malnutrition.
Sources: World Bank, Education Comparative Indicators; LAC Technical
Department, T!uman Resources Division, Feedina Latin America'l
Children, ID? No.0049, 1989; and LAC Technical Department, Human
Resources Division, "Government Expenditures on Social Sectors in
Latin America and the Caribbean. Statistical Trends", September 1989.
II.   Proiect ComDonents
5.    The proposed FHIS would begin operations with a limited variety of
social sector projects vhich will be modified according to need and
experience. The PHIS would finance the following types of subprojects:
6.    Health and Nutrition Prolects: (a) support to lactarios (feeding centers
for mothers and pre-school children) including nutritional support, growth
monitoring, nutritional surveillance and nutrition education programs; (b)
support to food production in comunity farms (microaranias and huertag); (c)
development of primary health care training programs for community midvifes
(Rarteras emDiricas), health promotors and cimnunity health guardians,



-59 -NOM
Pag. S of 5
including provision of basic tools and wedicine;l (d) support to primry
helth care (PIC) facilities including furniture and equipment and maintenance
programs for the cold chlin (vaccines), and (e) support to con nity health
programs such as vector Aoantrol, envirormental and health education.
7     Iducation Proiects: (a) targeted school breakfast program via parent
associations provided that theyt (i) use local foods; and (it) transfer
monetary resources to executing agencies for food purchase and preparation at
the co munity levels (b) targeted provision of educational materials, a small
school library and teacher training on managemnt of class time, use of
materials, etc.; (c) provision and repair of school furniture (bipersonal
desks and chairs); and (d) targeted early stmulation and pre-primry non-
formal education programs consisting of training local personnel, and
providing teaching materials and furniture for pre-primry contero, and
nutritional assistance (growth onitoring and nutrition education).
III. Anproach and Tarmetina
5.    To target resources for social projects, the FRIS will identify the
poorest groups among potetial beneficiaries using the most illustrative
Indicators of extreme poverty in Honduras at the sunicipal levels child
malnutrition rates, access to clean vater and latrines. The IS has already
developed a ranking of dopartsnts and uunicipalities according to the above
mntioned indicators. As a first step, this ranking vill be used for the
selection of municipalities. In addition, as part of the criteria to select
beneficiaries, tho social sectors program will uce some of the following
eligibility indicators at the comunity levell Ci) infant mortality rates,
acute respirstory infections and diarrhea incidence among children under 5
years, (ii) malnutrition (severe) among children aged 0 to S years, (lCi)
availability of potable water and latrines, (iv) percentage of school age
children (7 to 12 years) attending school, and (v) existing social
infrastructuret CISAHO, CISAR, health promotor, lealth guardian, primry
school (grades, teachers).
IV.   Conditions and Reauirments for Subprolets
9.    Besides ensuring that geographical and eligibility criteria are not,
FRIS field staff (promotion people) will be responsible for ensuring that
social vector subprojects met the following conditioncs  (a)  psmunt1y
parti.iRotion through money, kind or labor. This is one of the essential
components of the social sector subprojects to be presented for FIS financing
because it: (i) mobilizso additional resources, (l) indicates effective
demand for health, nutrition and education services through willingness to
pay, and (iii) augments the oustainability of projectsl (b) contribution of
szonsorins aaencT because thi.: (i) would induce agencies to roveal their on
priorities for funding, (ii) would give executing agoncies more of a stake in
the project, and (iii) vould discourage the creation of non viable agencies
only to take advantage of the nhIS; and Cc) prolecto are sustainable, meaning
that a combination of local, third party, and/or public sector agencies are
com  tted to support recurrent costs of the project beyond 1RIS support.
10.    As a general principle for basic needs subprojects, the  IS will
require a mlinmum of 3 percent counterpart financing from beneficiaries (for
example in land, physical facilities, materials, money or time). Counterpart
financing of up to 10 percent will be also required from the other
participating institutions (municipalities, line ministries, OPDs). There
percentages will be reviewed upon experience.



- 60 -                      _IM  4
Page 4 of 5
V.    The Cyclg of Suboroiects
11.   Idntlification and Preparation.  The field staff (prootors) of the  MS18
will play an active role in the identification and assistance to preparation
of social sector subprojects. They inform conunities and potential executing
agencies about the alternative social sector subprojects PHIS might finance,
and provide advise and technical assistance. One of their duties vill be to
complete the coinunity profile filled up by tha requesting agency. They vill
be also responsible for ensuring coordination vith relevant public sector
agencies, including arrangements for the sustainability of the subprojects
beyond PHIS.
12.    ZAlusation.  In approving social sector aubprojects the FhIS vill comply
vith the following stepas (a) verification that targeting criteria are mt
including: (i) location in high priority department and municipality, (ii)
beneficiary groups to vhich assistance would be directed, (iii) expected
Impact on target population; and (b) that the project is sustainable by
obtaining written agreements by relevant public sector agencies,
municipalities or others to pick up recurrent costs beyond PHISI and (c)
evaluation of the prospective executing agency. The YBIS vill evaluate: (i)
how the subproject's purpose fits with the agreed subprojects types, (ii) the
implementation capacity of the agency submitting the application, (iii) the
agency's financial state, (iv) the cost of the subproject independently of the
estimates presented by the agency, and (v) the ratio of administrative costs
over total project cost.
13.   Ir.lemntatio . Social sector subprojects would be typically carried out
by an NGO. Supervision options are currently being analyzed by the FHIS. Each
subproject would be covered by a three or four party contract among FHIS (as
the funding agency), the beneficiary groups, the executing agency, and the
supervising agency (if it exists). Upon subproject approval, FHIS would
establish a project account and authorize the disbursement of an advance to
start up the subproject. Schedule end conditions for subsequent disbursements
would be established at subproject approval. Subproject contracts would
provide for suspension of disbursements if the purposes of the subprojects
vero not being achieved or funds were being diverted from the agreed
activities.
14.   Supervision and Monitoring. FHIS supervisors would visit subprojects in
the field regularly to verify that funds are being used for the purpose for
vhich they were intended. Visits would be more frequent if special problems
arose or were suspected. The supervision of social sector projects would go
beyond mere fiscalization containing a technical assistance component,
supporting and strengthening both community organizations and NCOs' executing
capacity. In addition, concurrent external auditing vould include on its
sample * number of social sector projects.
15.   Ex-gost Evaluation. The demonstration of PBIS's accomplishments requires
precise measurements ex-ante and ax-post. Evaluations of the results achieved
by completed subprojects vould be carried out. This evaluations vould use the
baseline information gathered at the time of project preparatl1n in the
appraisal form, a*d estimate the changes in rhe basic indicators once the
subproject is completed, such as the number of midwifes trained, the number of
school breakfasts provided and the increase in school attendance rates.



- 61 -                      ANnl 4
Page 5 of 5
VIl.          Social Sector. Proiects ffnu
16.   Below, the PHIS social sector projects menu and its preliminary
budgetary allocation.
Table 4.B: SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECTS MENU
TOTAL COST
COIPONENT                                                       UnLt Cost
Unit  * Units       Lps         LMs       US$
(millions)
Nutit&ion
Lactarios                              children       15000 650 1/        9.750    1.773
School Breakfasts                      children       45000 450 2/       20.250   3.682
Conunity Farms                             farms       3500 500 3/        1.750   0.318
Health
Primary Health Care Trng.
Traditional Birth Attendant            persons        1000 825 4/        0.825   0.150
Health Promotors                       persons         500 600 5/        0.300   0.055
Health Guardians                       persons        1500 800 6'!       1.200   0.218
Support to PHC ?acilities
Furniture & Equipment                  centers         760 800 7/        0.605   0.110
Community Programs                    programs          14 275000        3.85      0.704
Cold Chain                                                               0.275   0.050
Other (Pilots)                         centers         100     800       0.080   0.015
Special Groups                         centers          20  72050        1.441   0.262
Education
Pre-Primary Programs                    centers        28005800 8/       16.240   2.953
Primary Programs
Educational materials,                 schools        12807200 9/        9.216    1.676
libraries, teacher trng.)
School Furniture
New desks/chairs                  desk/chairs    108000100 !°/          10.800    1.964
Repair of desks/chairs            desk/chairs         6000       50      0.300   0.055
76.632  13.983
I/   Calculated at L 2.5 per day. 5 days per veek, 52 veeks per year (30 children per lactario).
2/   Calculated at L 2.5 per day, 5 days per week, 36 weeks per year (120 children per school).
3/   L 500 per comunity fare including training, seeds, fertilizers, tools.
4/   It includes 6 day training course, transportation, daily allowance and "maletinw vith basic
tool.
5/   It includer 6 day training course, transportation and daily allowanct.
6/   It includes 6 day training course, transportation and daily allowance and supply of basic
medicines.
7/  It includes 6 day furniture and equipment mnaufactured in Honduras.
I/  Each center serves an average of 30 children.  It includes furniture, teaching materials and
training.
9/   Each school has 120 children on average.  It includes school materials for each child (L
40). materials for teachers (L 500), sall library (L 1,500), and teacher training (T. 400).
L0/  Bipersonal desk and chairs.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
NGOS in Honduras
Overview of Honduras NGOs
1.        Honduras has a long tradition of NGOs active in organizing special
local interest groups such as trade unions, cooperatives and other entities
since the late thirties and early forties when legislation encouraged their
formation. Many of these NGOs are still active and have evolved from being
single issue organizations to becoming much more complex and far reaching
entities. The number of NGOs has continued to increase through the 1960s,
1970s, and early 1980. as funding from the U.S. Alliance for Progress, German,
Dutch and other bilateral programs provided opportunity and growth. The 1969
war with El Salvador and the subsequent protracted war in Nicaragua called for
the arrival of dozens of additional international NGOs to bring relief to
refugees and other local populations affected by civil strife and economic
stagnation.
2.        USAID has played a particularly important role in strengthening a
number of existing NGOs as well as stimulating the creation of a number of new
organizations. USAID contributions have made up more than 50X of NGO funding
in Honduras over the last 10 years. USAID and German Aid were responsible for
the support in making FOPRIDEH, an important Honduras NGO Consortium, develop
into an effective institution providing assistance to the NGO community. At
the same time, NGOs have experienced problems as objectives and allocations
for funding have varied substantially and caused several of them to experience
a boom and bust syndrome.
3.        Nevertheless, there is currently a sustained interest in funding
local NGO work as can be witnessed by recent increases in funding by groups
like CEBEMO, SNV, GTZ, Swiss Aid and CIDA. The international NGO community
made up of groups like Redd Barna, Plan International, Care International,
World Neighbors and others have also either kept up their annual contributions
or slightly increased them.
4.        Of particular interest in Honduras has been the concerted effort
between bilateral funding agencies, private international NGOs and local NGOs
in the introduction, development and continued support of numerous local
schemes in: community development, microenterprise, potable water, irrigation,
farmev agrict'ural extension, improvement and diversification of agricultural
production, using and upgrading traditional health capabilities, training of
women particularly in entrepreneurship development and more recently
exploration in environmental work such as soil conservation or community
forestry.
5.        The key element to NGO success in Honduras has been based in NGO
experience in becoming partners i.h local citizens in defining local needs
and jointly implementing a program .    #ill those needs.  NGOa have served
as facilitators of technical assiet .ncv   anagement skills and funds, while
their local counterpart groups have supplied comitted persons to undertake



- 63 -                         ANNX 5
Page 2 of 5
the training necessary in leadership, scheduling, accounting, coamunity
organizing, health, sanitation, agriculture, etc. These efforts have often
entailed making serious mistakes on a small scale, embracing these mistakes
and integrating lessons learned in subsequent work.
6.        Because of the way the early NGOc became established in the
thirties and forties as special interest groups outside of government,
Government/NGO collaboration in the design of development projects has been
relatively limited. The World Bank current concern over the development of
long-term poverty alleviation strategies, and its proposed financing of the
FHIS, creates a unique opportunity to bring VGOs and Government entities
together.
7.        NGOs in Honduras have made important impacts on the lives of small
groups of local poor to the extent that a majority of their beneficiaries have
graduated from levels of critical impoverished subsistence to levels of
subsistence and in some cases to higher income generating levels. These NGOc
are relatively advanced in their ability to negotiate funding from independent
sources and they have successfully increased donor willingness to make
substantial increases.  What is lacking is a reason for NGOs to look Wnre
closely and more broadly at what one another is doing to formulate longer-term
strategies based on this experience. A spot check on what these organizations
are doing in Honduras makes it clear that the different institutional
approaches are very effective in targeting specific populations. With the
increased success and expansion of NGO work it is clearly visible that NGOs
need to address specific policy areas to avoid undermining one another. A
clear example of this is in the treatment of credit to the poor. There are
already over 30 intermediation NGOs in Honduras providing some form of credit
to local communities. Their schemes vary from the provision of revolving
funds charging no interest with little or not technical assistance to the
provision of group loans at market rates with a comprehensive auto-financed
package of technical assistance.
Characteristics
S.        Today, NGOs in Honduras are more numerous and sop'isticated than
ever before. There are over 150 development NGOs nationwide of which 50
invest US$100,000 or more annually. These NGOs vork on graduated levels:
(a) International and national NGOs specialized in institution building
expertise by sector such as:
-    ACCION AITEC and PADF vhich provides training and funding to
national and regional NGOe working vith the poorest segments
of the population in microenterprise, small enterprise
development; and
-    Agua para el Pueblo vhich provides a model and training to
other national and regional NGOs to introduce gravity fed
potable vater systems partially financed and completely
maintained by beneficiaries.
(b) NcO Consortia and other types of umbrella organizations vhich
represent groups of NGOs having common development, ideological,
religious, and other affiliations, such as:



4-NEX 5
-64 -                           Page 3 of 5
-    FOPRIDEB, the largest consortium represents 37 diverse
development NGO including cooporatives and unions interested
in sharing technical expertiso and developing joint planning
strategies for longer-torim funding;
-    CEDEN, the socond largest consortium vhich is currently a
loosely organized Evangelical Committee for Development and
National Emorgency coordinating refugee assistance; and
-    FACACH, a specialized cooperative financial intermediation NGO
providing funding and technical assistance to 83 member local
credit unions and more recently specialized non-member housing
and microonterprise programs sponsored by Care and Cooperative
Housing Foundation.
(c) The Regional and National NCOo which serve as research centers,
think-tanks and policy training centers, some of which consider
their work in local development as only part of their overall
mandate such ass
-    INCAE, a Central American version of the Harvard Kennedy
School of Development and the Harvard Business School which
has done extensive research and training mostly in the areas
of small and medium-scale management of the private sector
including vork with larger cooperatives; and
-    PAAS, one of the most reputable agricultural schools in the
southern hemisphere (partly because of its original philosophy
of oxtensive field vork and cooperative education approach and
because of its specialized knowledge of South American
agricultural production) has played an important role by
graduating a substantial number of agricultural experts
currontly leaders and staff of NGOs and Government agencies
active in rtAral development.
(d) National NGO vith general mandates which work in anywhere from one
to soveral departmerts vith specific sectoral areas like
microonterprise development or the environment; or vhich have
special approaches like training of local people to become
extension workers, community leaders or teacher.; and others which
focus on areas like the safeguard of child wel. o through
cimunity development:
-    ASZPADE, FUNADEH, FUNDEMU, FEHCIL, ODEF and others have
several years of experience in the introduction of credit
schemes geared to identifying and supporting
microontreproneurship development among the poor;
-    Caritas Arquidiocesana which works closely through some of the
nations dioceses providing mother and child care, nutrition,
medicine, intensive hospital care, vocational training and
food for work couunity self-help programs; and
-    Children Christian Fund, Association Save the Children,
Project Hope, World Relief Services, World Vision, Mennonite
Central Comiittee vhich all have children, mothers or



- 65 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
religious target groups around which they create integrated
community development programs.
(e) Municipal and village development groups which are local
counterparts to the development NGOs. These groups are in
different stages of development. A few of them have recently
become formal registered NGOs, but most are still in development.
Ideally, there should be one or two local development groups per
local community.
Evolution of NGOs in Honduras
9.        NGOs in Honduras have made the distinction of refusing to call
themselves NGOs. They feel that to identify themselves as "non-governmental"
projects images of being in opposition to government or "other" than
government. They also feel that the term NGO covers a broad range of private
voluntary groups which are not involved in development. They call themselves
OPDs which translated means private development organizations and covers all
private non-profit organizations predominantly involved in development.
10.       Honduran NGOs consider themselves full legitimate actors in
development and want to be full partners with other institutions working
toward the same end. There are other distinctive aspects of NGOs in Honduras.
Cooperatives and some unions are very active members of the development N(O
community. In Honduras, cooperatives are actively generating neu membership
as well as supporting the formation of new cooperative groups. Highly
qualified women head or are members of management in about half of the NGOO.
This is particularly the case with NGOs working as financial intermediation
institutions.
11.       The qualitative and quantitative presence of NGOs in Honduras over
the last decades reflects the diverse needs of a population torn by social,
material, and political differences. NGOs have served initially to mitigate
these differences and eventually to facilitate local citizens to become full
partners in Honduras' development. The success of NGOs has been their ability
to experiment with local populations on a small scale, learn from mistakes
early on and reformulate their projects and programs taking into account
lessons learned. This learning formula has been refined and repeated bringing
in new constituencies and solutions to the development process.
12.       As NGOs have strengthened their grasp of local initiatives a number
of factors have arisen. Some NGOs have sought out other NGOs and government
agencies holding comparative advantage in financial, technical, material,
logistical and other types of assistance. NGOs have joined in partnerships
with othe- instituticns to compare experiences and methodologies, and
eventually provided better services to local communities. There is a growing
number of cases where a community development NGO like ALDEA GLOBAL will bring
in a financial analyst from FOPRIDEH, a potable water system expert from Agua
para el Pueblo, a health trainer from the Educsa, a microenterprise expert
from ASEPADE, and/or an agricultural training expert from PAAS, or Vecinos
Mundiales to bring precise expertise to bear on a local initiative. NGOs like
ALDEA GLOBAL also facilitate access to expertise from the various government
extension services in very much the same way.
13.       A number of NGOs are joining different consortia and affiliations
(mentioned above) through which they strengthen theil institutional capacity.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
FOPRIDEH, in particular, has involved its membership in long-range strategic
planning exercises. Institutions like FUHRIL have pooled their membership
resources to stage more effective fund raising campaigns. Altogether, these
group activities result in the streamlining of institutional operations to be
more competitive and to better target beneficiaries. This is sometimes a
painful experience in vhich individual NGOs restructure to incorporate new
criteria into their programs such as making sure that projects are targeted,
sustainable, accountable, replicable, and able to collaborate and where
appropriate, compete with other NGO programs.
14.       An average estimate of the sectoral investments made by 75 of the
larger intermediation NGOs per sector in any one of the last three years is as
follows in US$ millions:
Per Year
Agriculture and Forestry      8.1
Community Development         1.6
Education                     5.5
Institution Building           .9
Health                        2.7
Housing Infrastructure        7.9
Micro & Small Enterprise    11.0
Water & Sanitation            2.6
Estimated Total            40.3



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
..............................
TOTAL PROJECT COST
..................
(USSOOO)
..........................................................................................
Foreign           Percentage of
Exchane
DAount         X ..   oA t            totol  Cost
Cost      FHIS
1    SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
A. Irwe tm_nt
Infrastructure                         43,650         30       13 095      64.2      65.3
Saic ne ds                              13 439        15        2.016       19.8      20.1
Productive projects                      4,279        25        1,070       6.3        6.4
...................................................
Sutotat                             61,368         26       16,181      90.2      91.8
U. FNIS Invstme nt
Vehicle                                   300        s0          240       0.4       0.4
Computers                                 144        80          115       0.2       0.2
Office  quipmant                           40        80           32       0.1        0.1
Trainfng                                  214         5            11      0.3       0.3
Promotion *nd advertizing                 336         0             0      0.5       0.5
Technical assistance                       30       100           30       0.0       0.0
,...................................................
Sutotal                            1,064         40          428       1.6       1.6
C. Recurrent Costs
Saeries and trovel expanse             3,355         0            0       4.9       5.0
Vehicle   opersting cost                 200        80          160       0.3       0.3
Rent and services                        254        15           38       0.4       0.4
Other expense                            569        19          108       0.8       0.9
Sutotol                      4,378         7          306       6.4       6.5
D. Monitoring *nd Evaluation                50        15             8       0.1       0.1
S..btotal                       50        15            8       0.1       0.1
Subtotal FNIS              66.860         24       16,23       96.3    100.0
11.  PILOT NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM              420        11           46       0.6
111. SOCIAL SECTOR RESTRU CTURING STWDY              400        50          200       0.6
IV.  LIVING STANDARD STUDY                           320         5            16      0.5
PROJECT TOTAL COST                          68,000         24       17,185    100.0
*/ USS 1.- Lps 5.5



- 68 -                                            gXr 7
.......
Page  1 of  1
NOIDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
..............................
FINANING PLAN
..............
cUSSIo0O)
enef.      X    Govt.      X   Donors        X    Total       I
FNIS               *-.--...    ...    ....    ...    .... .                 ...    .....      .. ..
Socilo  Infratructure             4,365  10.0    4,365  10.0   34,920    80.0   43,650    64.2
Sasic Needs                       1,344  10.0    1.344  10.0   10,751    80.0   13,439    19.8
Inforuml Sector                     856  20.0    1,931  45.1    1,492    34.9    4,279        6.3
Vehicles                              0   0.0             0.0       300   100.0       300     0.4
Ca   ujters                           0   0.0             0.0       144   100.0       144     0.2
ice Equlpnnt                       0   0.0             0.0        40   100.0       40      0.1
Training                              0   0.0             0.0       214   10C.0       214     0.3
Promotion                             0   0.0             0.0       336   100.0       336     0.5
Technical Assistance                  0   0.0             0.0        30   100.0        30     0.0
galaries and Travel Expanses          0   0.0    3,020  90.0        336    10.0    3,355      4.9
Vehicles Operating Costs              0   0.0       180  90.0        20    10.0       200     0.3
Rent and Servicos                     0   0.0       229  90.0        25    10.0       254     0.4
Other Expense                         0   0.0       512  90.0        57    10.0       569     0.8
Monitoring and EvaLuation             0   0.0             0.0        50   100.0        50     0.1
Subtotal FNIS                  6,565   9.8   11,580  17.3   48,715    72.9   66,860    98.3
PILOT NUTRITION ASSIST. PROG.         0   0.0       220  52.4       200    47.6       420     0.6
SOCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCT. STUDY         0   0.0       200  50.0       200    50.0       400     0.6
LIVING STANDARD STUDY                 0   0.0         9   0.0       320   100.0      320      0.5
..............................................................
TOTAL                          6,56S   9.7   12,000  17.6   49,435    72.7   68.000   100.0



-  69  -                              ANNEX 8
Page 1 of I
PIONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Disbursement SchedJue
..................................... ...................................................... ............
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester              Smester               CumuAative                X                Semester
.. ..........................    . ........              .     ..............                      .       ..... ........  .......... . .. ... . ... ............... . ......
(USS miLLion)        (IS$ million)
1991
2nd (Jdnuary 1991-Jure 1991)                     4.0                  4.0                 20.0                      1
1992
1st (July 1991-Oecember 1991)                   3.5                   7.5                 37.5                      2
2nd (January 1992-June 1992)                     4.5                 12.0                 60.0                      3
1993
lst (JuLy 1992-December 1992)                    5.0                 17.0                 85.0                      4
2nd (January 1993-June 1993)                     2.8                 19.8                 99.0                      5
1994
1st (July 1993-December 1993)                   0.2                  20.0                100.0                      6
Closing Date: DecaTber 31, 1993



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page i of 7
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Pilot Nutrition Assistance Proftra
Background
1.   The incidence of moderate to severe malnutrition in children under age
five, as measured by deficient weight for age, has gone down from 26.2S in
1966 to 18.3Z in 1987. Nonetheless, nutrition in Honduras remains one of the
highest in Latin America and the Caribbean Region, with rates comparable to
those in Bolivia, Guatemala, and Haiti. This severe malnutrition needs to be
addressed with more effective government programs. This is specially
important as the situation is most likely to worsen as price liberalization
and exchange rate movements are resulting in price increases of basic foods.
If the food consumption of the poorest groups is not protected, their already
precarious nutrition status will worsen. A large group of the population
segment most likely to be affected are single mothers with children, children
under six years of age, pregnant and lactating mothers, the disabled and the
elderly. Currently, there is no efficient mechanism for income transfer to
these populations. A food supplementation and school feeding program exists
through the health and education systems, but their coverage is quite limited.
Poverty is concentrated in rural areas where the lack of social services is
very high.
The Food Counon Pilot Proaram
2.   The pilot food coupon program will introduce a new and innovative way to
transfer purchasing power to poor families during the economic adjustment
program and will be a testing ground for implementation of a longer term cost-
effective nutrition intervention program. The alternative would be to
increase food distribution through the existing programs, but this would be
very costly and probablv impossible given the logistical complexity of
physical distribution of food and the limited administrative capacity of
government agencies. Implementation of a good food coupon program is also
complex at the beginning and requires good administrative capacity, but once
basic logistic problems are solved, the program can be expanded and
administered mote easily and cheaply. This is a significant challenge for
PRAP who is the overall administration of the program.
Target Population
3.   The food coupons will be distributed to all mothers (pregnant and
lactating) and their children 0-6 years old attending health centers (CESAMO)
and health posts (CESAR) in specified poorest geographical areas. The coupon
will be handled out every month conditional on check-ups for the mothers and



- 71 -                            _EWJ 
Page 2 of 7
children in the health facilities. The number of people to be attended in the
pilot project will be 24,000 persons (16,000 children, 8,000 mothers). These
beneficiarios vill be attended in one health center in Tegucigalpa and 18
health posts in Vacae, Valle Department vhich is one of the poorest rural
areas of the country. The programming of beneficiaries is shown in Table 2.
The Amount of the Transfer
4. The amount of the transfer vill be L. 20 per mother and L. 10 per
eligible child per month. Food coupons vill be distributed by auxiliary
personnel in charge of growth monitoring and nutrition programs. According to
calculations of nutritional gap, the above amount of transfer would cover
about 30S of daily requirements estimated at 2,500 calories per day for
mothers and 1,475 per day for children.
Fodo Allowod
S. The coupon vill be good to buy oats, oil or butter, rice and milk at any
neighborhood store (pulperia) or at the state groceries (BANASUPRO).
Logistics
6.   The coupon will be issued by the Central Bank of Honduras on security
paper in L.5 denominations vith an expiration date of two months. This will
prevent coupons from remaining in tha system as another monetary unit and will
ensure expenditure of the budget allocation. The PRAF will be in charge of
distributing the coupon through selected banking institutions with branches in
the distribution aroas. Health workers from the health region vill take the
coupon from the banks and vill distribute them to the health centers and
posts. Each center and post will have a security box to keep the coupons
until distribution. The coupons vill be distributed all days of the vwek to
thoso mothers attending the monthly controls. This is to avoid overcrowding.
If distribution were made only on certain specified days there would be longer
lines because of the large demand compared to availability of health posts
employees time. To ensure adequate supply of the foods of the program, the
PRAF will establish agroments with private food distribution chains that
supply retailers at the local level. These retailers will receive training on
how to participate in tho program and about coupon redemption procedures.
Cost of the Pilot
7. The cost of the pilot program has been estimated at L. 2,300,000
(US$ 420,000) for a period of 6 months (Table 1). The three main components
of the cost are the coupons themselves (L. 1,300,000), setting up the PRAP
administrative structure, the logistics of the program, and support for the
Ministry of Health to implement the program and prepare for expansion of
coverage.
Cost of * National Proarm
8. The Government gives top priority co the food coupon assistance program
to be distributed through health centers and posts. The Government has
started the pilot program described above in December 1990.



- 72 -
Page 3 of 7
9. During the pilot project period, the Ministry of Health and PRAU, with
technical assistance from RUTA and other donors such as USAID, will make the
necessary studies for a gradual expansion of the pilot project, if successful,
to the national lovel. Preliminary estimates indicate that expansion to the
national level could cost L. 10 (US$1.8 million) million in 1991, L. 20
(US$3.6 million) million in 1992 and L. 30 to L. 40 million (US$5.4-7.2
silliou) in 1993 when the program is zxpected to cover most of the vulnerable
population living in the poorest areas of the country.
Roles of Ministryv of ILinace. Ministry of Health, and PRAY
10.  The NO0 has agreed to distribute the food coupon as part of preventive
masures in the growth monitoring progrm and pro-natal care.  The N0 vill
give spocial attention to ensure that the additional demand generated by the
program vill not affect the normal operation of program. (vaccination, growth
monitoring). A new model of health care delivery at the local level giving
more responsibility to the nurse and auxiliary nurse vill be introduced in the
pilot project.
11.  The MOB vill make sure that personnel will b& trained and that scales,
tallimetros, safety boxes and other material will be ready in all health post
of the project at least three wooks before the coupons are given to health
facilities for distribution.
12. The PRAY will be adequately staffed to ensure that logistic arrangements
are properly made and that the program can be impleomnted properly. The
Government intends to improve management of the PRAY substantially to ensure
that operating agencies, including the PRAY and the MOH vill carry out the
program efficiently.
13. Three months after the start of the pilot program, PRAY, the MOB and the
Association (through RUTA) vill review preliminary results and, if the program
appears successful, undertake preparation of gradual expansion to other
poorest areas of the country.
14. The Ministry of Finance (M07) vill provide strong support in terms of
personnel and financial resources to PRAY during the whole period of
impleomntation of the pilot program. The MOF has provided so far 4 full time
professionals and has agreed to maintain them at PRAY and increase its support
if de emed necessary.
Auditing
15. The Government vill enter in contact vith an external auditing firm to
implement a concurrent auditing systm of accounts and money disbursed to
ensure that coupons reach the intended beneficiaries. The coupon systm will
also be monitored by the evaluation component of the FBIS project.



- 73 -                       ANNEX 9
Piage 4 .o f 7
HONDUJRAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
PILOT NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Chart 1: LOGISTICS
M INISTRY Of                  PR
|f INANCE              - 
- BANASUPRO                          BN
-D WHPROLBETSA LNK    HEALTH
- PRODUCERS |.\
F  ' r                           ~~~~~~H EALT H
- DANASUPRO                                       CENTERS
- WHOLESALERS
- RETAILERS
_  MOTHER      r
~~Informaioton       -.Lornpiroo
DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS
Coupon                 food



HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Chart:    ACTIVITIES UNDER RESPONSIBLITY OF MINISTRY OF HEALTH
WEEKS
ACTIVITY                  1          2           3           4           5           6     |    7         Responsble
Ing. Raul Cardona
PRAF Office Organized                                                                                            Ing. Carlos Perez
Ministry of Health                                                                                               Dr. Carranza
Counterpart Organized                                                                                          Dr. Escoto
Presentation of Project                                                                                          Technical
to Health Region                                            _                                                  Group
-J
Presentation of Project to                                                                                       Technical Group
Operatiing Level - Health                                                                                       Local Authorities
Local Level
Identification and                                                                                               Health
Selection of Beneficiaries                                              _                _                      Assistants
PRAF
Validation of Instruments                                                                                        Technical Advisers
Education
Promotion and Education                                                                                          Division
i          I |    -    1------ -   -                                   Nutrition
Nutrition Education Plan                                                                                         Division
. __                                   __ Technical
Training  cf Local Staff       __    _      _   _  _  _   _   _     _   _  _  _    _   _  _  _   _                roup
Technical              I 
Monitoring and Supervision                                                                                       Group
_Technical 6iroup    c
Adjustments to Work Plan                      __F___                              i                   _chnical Ad% isers



HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Chart     UNDER RESPONSIBLITY OF PRAF
WEEKS
EVENTS                 1          2          3          4          5         6          7         Responsible
PRAF Office Organized                                             _ _                              _
Coupon Ready
Coupon Issued                                     _     -          -
Coupon Distributed          _                                 .                  _
Training Material Edited
Agreement with Food
Distributing Company                               _      _ I  E_t_1
Agreement with BANADESA                       _
Agreement with BANASUPRO
Training of Distribution                          _                                 .          _
Training of Wholesalers                                            _
Training of Retailers                                                                            -    f
Program Evaluation Contracted          _       _____                                   __ __        _



-76-                                   ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 7
PROGRAM FOR MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF COUPONS TO MOTHERS AND CHILDREN
HEALTH CENTER           MONTH 1  MONTH 2  MONTH 3  MONTH 4  MONTH 5  MONTH 6
3 DE MAYO        CM       11,390   22,780   34,170   45,560   45,560   45,560
NACAOME          CM        1,360    2,720    4,080    5,440    5,440    5,440
LANGUE           CM        1,798    3,596    5,398    7,190    7,190    7,190
JICARO GALAN    CR           836    1,676    2,512    3,346    3,346    3,346
ALIANZA          CR          9/U    1,940    2,910    3,872    3,872    3,872
EL ACEITUNO      CM                 1,070    2,140    3,214    4,272    4,272
CORAY            CM                 1136    2,276    3 412    4,546    4,546
EL CARRIZAL      CR                    638    1,280    1,918    2,558    2,558
CONCEPCION       CR                    730    1,460    2,186    2,922    2,922
PASO HONDO       CR                    738    1,476    2,214    2,936    2,936
EL CONCHAL       CR                    666    1,332    1,998    2,666    2,666
SAN ANTONIO      CR                    326      652       978    1,314    1,314
AGUA FRIA        CR                  1,244    2,488    3,736    4,968    4,968
MOROCOPAY        CR                    ,38    1,076    1,618    2,156    2,156
LA LIBERTAD      CR                    544    1,088    1,632    2,190    2,190
SAN MIGUELITO   CR                    826    1,652    2,478    3,314    3,314
LAS UVAS         CR                    836    1,676    2,512    3,346    3,346
EI. TRANSITO     CR                   836    1,676    2,512    3,346    3,346
LA ARADA         CR                    836    1,676    2,512    3,346    3,346
TOTAL                     16,354   43,676   71,018   98,328  109,288  109,288
CM - CESAMO
CR - CESAR
SOURCE - TABLES 1 AND 2



- 77 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedures          Total
Category of ExRenditure               ICB       LCB      Other     NA      Costs
Civil Works and Materials               1.0     29.6      19.9       -.-    50.5
(0.8)    (9.3)    (5.3)       _._   (15.4)
Furniture and Equipment                 -.-      3.9       0.7       -.-     4.6
(1.4)    (0.3)      -.-    (1.7)
Computers                                .       0.1       -.-       -.-     0.1
(0.0)     -     *- -* -    (0.0)
Vehicles                                 .       0.3       -.        -.-     0.3
(0.0)     -.-       -.      (0.0)
Consultant and Auditors Services        -.-      -.-       -.-       1.2     1.2
_ . _    _._       -. -     (0.9)   (0.9)
Training                                -.-      -.-       -.-      6.8      6.8
_ . _    _._-      - _.-    (2.0)   (2.0)
Salaries, Allowances                   -.-       -.-       .-       4.5      4.5
and Other Recurrent Costs              -.-       -.-       -.-     (0.0)   (0.0)
Total Project Costs                 1.0      33.9     20.6      12.5    68.0
(0.8)   (10.7)    (5.6)    (2.9)  (20.0)
Note:  Numbers in parentheses reflect IDA financing.



AnnexI I
- 78                            Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Informal Sector Proiects
1.    Credit is rarely available to the poor at reasonable rates of interest for
4 main reasons: (i) commercial banks require collateral which the poor cannot
provide, (ii) banks' procedures for filling in application forms and completing
other formalities for obtaining loans are too cumbersome for the illiterate poor,
(iii) banks prefer handling large loans rather than the petty loans that the poor
need, and (iv) the poor have a low repayment capacity because at their
subsistence level the compulsion to consume the additional income is great. The
poor, however, have access to informal sources of loans from professional money
lenders, but these rates are high (1 '-20 percent per month in Honduras) and
severely limit the production activities that can be undertaken. Consequently,
credit from noninstitutional sources basically finances consumption, for which
the poor are forced to take very short term loans when their physical existence
is at stake.
2.    One of the aims of the proposed Social Investment Fund in Honduras is to
make credit available to the poor for investments in the productive and service
sectors.   This will be done through trust funds operated by nongovernment
organizations (NGOs) who will lend to small entrepreneurs such as shoemakers,
handicraft makers, market or street vendors, operating in marginal urban zones
and rural areas with high unemployment rates. NGOO will do the actual appraisal,
disbursement and supervision of loans to the poor and their clients service their
debt through savings accounts in commercial banks.  This annex will discuss
lending to the poor and outline the modalities by which the FHIS will provide
financing to the informal sector.
A. Lending to the Poor
3.     Lending to the poor is a special business.  While it has the appearance
of traditional bank lending operations, it involves different typen of client
needs, methods of operation, and is considerably more costly to run. The major
difference with traditional commercial lending is the small size of the loans.
Lending to the poor means lending to people whose total annual income may be
$400-$800, i.e. close to the minimum wage. Target beneficiaries not only have
a meager annual income, they ara also frequently underemployed, often illiterate
and the nutrition and health level of their children may have reached critical
levels. If they are in rural areas, their village may lack infrastructure such
as rural roads or health posts and if they live in the outskirts of Tegucigalpa
they may be squatters without title to any property.   In several cases an
individual may start to be better off through a combination of hard labor and
ingenuity, but he may still have to support a large family or a relative who
needs help. The average loans currently made by NGOs operating in Honduras are
in the order of US$100-400 for small traders and microentrerreneurs. This is a
large sum of money for the client relative to his income but a very small amount
in traditional banking terms. The small size of loans is the first dilemma of



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
lending to the poor and has several consequences in terms of operating cost.
4.    Providing credit to the poor is very costly at least in an initial stage.
First, staff expenses are high. Because most clients are illiterate and are shy
about coming to banks, the banking services are often brought to their doorsteps.
NGO staff travel daily to maintain contact with their client groups. They not
only provide them training in credit discipline, but they also engage in social
development programs such as encouraging group members to produce fruits and
vegetables in kitchen gardens, investing for improvement of housing and education
of children, and use of latrines and safe drinking water for better health. In
many cases, because of underdeveloped roads and transport facilities, staff have
to walk. Weekly meetings are held where groups of borrowers meet with NGO staff.
In these meetings newly approved loar.s are disbursed and NGO staff collect
repayments and interest from members and write out the transactions themselves
in the client's  passbook.   Clients  receive deposit  slips from NGO staff
(representing monthly principal and interest) and use these to service their debt
by crediting the NGO's account every month. To provide these services, the staff
has to be trained, usually one to three months on the job. Second, lending to
the poor involves numorous very small transactions: a US$100 loan is a hundred
times smaller than a US$10,000 loan, itself considered a small transaction by a
commercial bank. Third, debt service payments are frequent because to achieve
high recuperation rates, the lender must relate small regular repayments to the
small regular income received by the poor. For example, some NGOs provide one-
year loans with the principal to be repaid in 50 equal weekly installments and
the interest during the last two weeks of the year.   Others require monthly
repayments.
5.    This high operating cost is reflected by the NGOs' actual experience.
Their operating cost in Honduras usually varies from 15.0 to 22.0 percent of the
total amount of loans. As a comparison, one of the most well-known institutions
lending to the informal sector, the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, had operating
costs of 18.1 percent in 1986. Therefore, to be able to lend at rates equivalent
to commercial bank market rates, NGOs need to receive low-cost or grant funds.
6.    The best NGOs lending to the informal sector have recovery rates of 95-100
percent. The main factors that contribute to the excellent recovery of loans
are:   (i) the genuine credit need of the poer for profitable income-earning
opportunities perceived by them, (ii) the provigion of loans for activities that
generate regular income, (iii) the collection of income in small amounts, (iv)
group pressure that keeps the individual borrower in line, (v) close supervision,
(vi) dedicated service of NGO staff who look at their job as an opportunity to
provide complete services to the poor.
7.    Commercial rates are well accepted by beneficiaries who either have no
access to credit or have to pay usuary rates of 120-240 percent p.a. Borrowing
of commercial rates also accustoms borrowers to work with commercial rates and
whenever they have built up a track record of good debt service, they may be able
to graduate to commercial banks.   For beneficiaries,  another advantage of
receiving credit from NGOs is that, in addition to the money itself, they usually
receive a complete package including technical assistance, not only in credit but
in basic accounting and marketing.   In some cases they also get training in
health, education and farming. NGOs either work through solidarity groups or



- 80 -                              Annox I11
Pago 3 cf 4
sometimes ask for a fiduciary guarantee (signature of friend or family member).
B. Financing of Informal Sector by the FHIS
8.    The FHIS would provide funds, to be administered by qualified NGOs who
would lend the funds at market rates to final beneficiaries.   When deemed
necessary, NGOs would provide technical assistance to final beneficiaries (to be
financed by the FHIS under the form of grants). Financing terms and conditions
are included in the Operational Manual of the FHIS and are summarized below.
Financial Arran,ements
9.    Arrangements whereby an NGO acts on behalf of FHIS to undertake lending to
informal sector beneficiaries according to terms and conditions spelled
out in the Operational Manual
Principal Financing Conditions
10.   Loan principal and interest to be repaid to FHIS (or successor of FHIS)
according to an amortization schedule to be specified
11.   NGO will be fully responsible for dEbt service and required to absorb any
loan losses
12.   Use of funds by NGO for purpose other than those agreed with the FHIS
results in automatic recall of funds by FHIS
Approval
13.   Financial  Arrangements  between  FHIS  and  NGO  approved  by  Operations
Committee of FHIS
14.   Individual subloans approved by management committee of NGO
Target Beneficiaries
15.   Microentrepreneurs in productive and service sectors located in marginal
urban zones and rural zones with high unemployment rates and low income
who do not have accesi to formal credit at present
16.   Examples of beneficiaries are shoemakers, handicraft makers, market or
street vendors of food, clothes, utensils, mechanics, hairdressers, small
tire repair shops, small farmers, etc.
17.   Operational  Manual   includes   other  parameters   to  define   target
beneficiaries including maximum number of employees, sales per month,
according to sectors
Requirements for Participating NGOs
18.   Must be properly registered legally
19.   At least three years experience in their field
20.   Adequate  administrative  and  financial  structure  to  undertake  loan
appraisal, recovery, and supervision
21.   Satisfactory recovery on existing portfolio (at least 95 percent)
22.   Adequate capacity to provide technical assistance to beneficiaries
23.   Quarterly financial reporting to FHIS



- 81 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
24.   Audit by external, private, independent auditors
Proiect Criteria
25.   Loans to final beneficiaries to be appraised according to technical and
financial criteria appropriate for this type of operation
26.   Projects to promote individual and group savings
Size of Loans
27.   Maximum size of loan: L10,000
Lendint Terms
28.   Repayment Period: in accordance with the type of activity being financed
(expected to vary between 3 months for working capital to 24 months for
equipment)
29.   Interest Rate: market rate to be applied by NGO, adequate to cover lending
and recovery costs and ensure reasonable net income, as agreed with PHIS
30.   Net income from lending operation to be shared between NGO and FHIS
according to a proportion established between FHIS and NGO
31.   Solidarity  group  guarantee,  (or  in some  cases  fiduciary  guarantee)
required from beneficiary
Grants for Technical Assistance
32.   Technical assistance to be provided by NGOs to final beneficiaries in
simple administrative, accounting, and technical aspects



- 82 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Documents included in the Proiect File
A.   Poverty
A.1. Identifying Poverty Groups in Honduras, Ralph Franklin, Mey 1990
B.   Social Investments
B.1. Social Investment in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras -
Workshop on Poverty Alleviation, Basic Social Services, and Social
Investment Funds within the Consultative Group Framework, Paris,
June 29 and 30, 1990, Report No. 8922-LAC
B.2. Honduras Social Sector Programs (Prepared for Consultative Group
Meeting in Paris, December 5, 1990), Report No. 9093-HO
C.   Health and Nutrition
C.1. Salud y Nutricion en Honduras, Fernando Vio, May 1990
C.2. The Participation of Private Development Organizations in the Basic
Needs Program of the Social Investment Fund, Anna Webb, July 26,
1990
C.3. Plan Piloto para el Proyecto de Bono Materno Infantil, Mario Ochoa,
August 1990
D.   Education
D.1. Back-to-Office Report, Alberto Zuniga, August 1990
E.   Water and Sewerage
E.1. Project Preparation Report on the Water and Sewerage Sector, Ana
Maria Sant'Ana, October 24, 1990
F.   Rural Roads
F.1. HONDURAS - Social Investment Fund - Rural Road Component, Back-to-
Office Report, July 27, 1990
G.   Informal Sector
G.1. Organizaciones Privadas de Desarollo que Atiendtn a la Microempresa
en Honduras: Su capacidad para llevar a cabo prayectos financiados
por el FHIS, Mirtha Olivares, July 24, 1990



- 83 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
H.   Procurement
H.1. HONDURAS: Country Procuro'ment Assessment Report, Carlos Mena,
September 1990
I.   Social Investment Fund: Documents and Manuals
I.1. Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Reglemento General de la Ley
del Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social
I.2. Descripcion y Situacion Actual del Fondo Hondureno de Inversion
Social, Taller Organizado por el Banco Mundial, June 1990
I.3. Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social, Consultative Group for
Honduras (Volumes I and II), Paris, France, December 5, 1990
I.4. Honduras - Proposed Social Investment Fund Project - Progress
Report on Project Preparation, Prepared by the World Bank for the
Honduras Consultative Group Meeting, Paris, December 5, 1990
T.5. Pondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Presupuesto de Inversion 1991
I.6. Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Sistema de Control de Costos,
1990
I.7. Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Manual de Promocion, 1990
1.8. Pondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Manual del Programa de
Necesidades Basicas, 1990
I.9. Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Manual de Control y
Seguimiento, 1990
1.10 Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social - Manual Operativo de
Contrataciones de Obras Publicas y Adquisiciones de Servicios,
October 26, 1990



is-                                                                    4-
110,b.,00
R..*-    1.6.d
BELIZE                                                                                         1.1-d ISLAS DE iA BAHIA
Uw. 1,6d
1 6                                                                                                           K.M C..hll.                                                                                                        16.
Ii-ii. C"                                                                         TRUJILIO
0                     1.6               1111AO
LA   T : J) A                                c   t O N
A.. Car---.
SAN KORO
SULA (e)
t:41
ci                                                                                                                                                               GRACiAS
YORO                                                                                                A        DIOS
lp
SANIA                                            0 YDR(                                                 -D.k. N-b-                                                       PUER 0
E
LEMPIRA
BARBARA              ')d.
COPAN'                                                                                                       L A N C
S  T  ARlBARA
SANTA ROSA
f           W-  cl. O'.                               JI-TICA&A
GRACIAS                       MAYAOij A
PEQ"                         -C                                                                                                                                     HONDURAS
NUEVA OCOTEPEOUE                                         CQMAYUA                                                                                                  ACCESS TO    BASIC
LEMPIPA            ,,PERAN
f                                                                                                                  SANITATION SERVICES
0                                                                                                               150 000   Population,
[A P47                        EGj0GAAPA                                                                                                              6y Departrnent
14'
14          E L                                                                                                                                                                              '00 30fj
SALVADOR                                                           2'
PARA'so
YUS         El P.                                                                                   000
Percentage of Populotion witkout
25%  7.5%      Basic Sanitation Services
VALLE                  S_ M__                0                                                                  0       National Capital
NA  01A                                            50%
CHOLUTVI-l'                                               50              1 00 K"LCMETERE           r-t    Deportment Cop-tals
A--6          0(:
vAD01                                                                         -0,U'ECA           G                                                                                Rivers
Depoorrent Ikou,,do,es
El Tiw.
Irte-ofiano: Boinclor-es
OD
CrI` 01                                                                                                                                                                                                      4



| BELIZE                                                                                 odn ISlASndELBAI
!                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~     ~     ~~~Utilo 1.6,.d  °)
L    t.C-^o                                                                  (3TR~~~~       ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UJIULO 
4t  ' /  <          _                   S'   1                                                                       (3 G  A c l1A 
j   _       /      v\                 \         (>        ,          ,                        C        )   ODueNomb-         >               A      DOS             rUFiTRO
[  4    A @ tBAR70  (   XCd7 _   \            >   t                                  /COLON
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                                                   A FJ l&IR0 5!-SEANA>.    PUZ %n,I ACS   O  OAL    AERT
SALVADOR   \<    -    >-t         R   Z            5    *,   PA~~~~~~~~~~~~~JTCALPA r  
H .°   ,   /                 y|         <              YUSS*t dFi oroso) ,  :                                                                 2 5I00
;Son  \11  >   >'       +         8 Percentoge OT Populotion W;ElLOUt0.0(   Popuation
W                                                            E TjG    |        ?        {P!OXF~ d        v; r ^bon  O-tON11_ F         iDoLAwn Bou byo Department
D   OSA IC  ENA*A.                                                                       o  ;S 1 n.~  O>O ~>ed     ~'sM° 0   Id nF0>BAZ                     t no00olBon000s  
0~ ~~~~~~~ ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A(Ol  8Y            8                                6                  ' 



j BELIZE                                                                                           ISLA  DE LA B>AHIA
Utilb la-d 
/; ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~                                                                           ~ ~             ~       ~~~~ I Ao  C 0_ L 0 N            
- i sb  ( 4    >   t3  7   t    d  Ct            <~~~~~~~~~~~~~J-  ci                    C
, t ,% 03 ) < < _Peq ~~~~~~~~~~~~~rAC RCIS!AS O^ >A CdoO   r >rgr  
s_  ,   ,  \   4    f                Z    O                                       \                         <                                       [50 000   Population A  Dio
SALVADOR~SA \                                                                                            A N C 0    AAs   
_-1   '4 NU),CTERPI                                          (       90(AAU    il__ e  (, I. .g
9t)AvE9Ai^/IDugAs                     <Sorl tosento°~~~~~~            ~ yCf 11; fE~       I | °_ 5                           O IO/EES(                      Deportmen  C Ptoputon
r;   :                                  . OA,no,osh    ;  8CHolUTECA ~~~~P   )    I                                                                        RL!er 
SAIVADO wICARAGUA                          \~~~~~~L PA                  PA            Sb."" Mo                                                                                 6y E_  taa rXWRdr.sn  (LI~i     oeo oDnr EBu deparI men
IA                                               =-1  EL                                                                               Xlu+e}+-=                                                                      1 -  =_P,_=  eD
SLAOR                                                                                       PsaRA76SO v r >Hnuo oe!Ivsmn vdYD 4 
¢_)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YICAA                                           l ...5,0



