Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4060-EGT
*                                   REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BAFK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$139 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officl duies. Its ctents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Egypt has multiple exchange rates:
US$ 1.00 = Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.70 (official rate)
LE 1.00 = US$1.428
USS 1.00 = LE 0.82 (official incentive rate)
LE 1.00 = US$1.22
Since January 1985, a floating rate has been introduced, which is
adjusted daily. This rate is currently as follows:
US$ 1.00 = LE 1.25
LE 1.00 = US$ 0.80
Weights and Measures
1 hectare          = 2.379 feddans
I feddan (fed.)    = 1.038 acres
. acre             = 0.963 feddan
1 square kilometer = 238 feddans
Egyptian Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC    =  Agricultural Research Center
BDAC      Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
EAO    =  Egyptian Agricultural Organization
ICB    =  International Competitive Bidding
LCB    =  Local Competitive Bidding
MFC    =  Mechanized Farming Center
MFTC   = Mechanized Farming and Testing Center
MOA    = Ministry of Agriculture
MOI    =  Ministry of Irrigation
PBDAC  =  Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:                 US$139 million
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:        The project objective is to improve farm productivity
and increase agricultural production through the
introduction of integrated farming packages in the
seven rice growing governorates, which represent about
50% of the cultivated area in the country. The project
would include: (i) provision of incremental farm
inputs; (ii) provision of agricultural machinery and
spare parts; (iii) establishment of machinery repair
and service facilities; (iv) a new seed cleaning plant
and two seed laboratories; (v) training in extension,
machine operation and agriculture credit; (vi)
establishment of mechanized centers for the testing and
demonstration of new machines; and (vii) technical
assistance to research staff to develop appropriate
mechanization systems and the preparation of a study on
the seed industry. Selective mechanization of farming
activities will be promoted by expanding the role of
private machinery hire services and by enlarging the
network of dealerships for agricultural machinery.
Benefits and Risks:    The project would directly benefit about 650,000
farmers. At full development the project will yield an
incremental annual production of about LE 280 million.
Even with low farmer response, the project net farm
profit of a small scale farm of 0.9 feddans to 2.7
feddans will increase by LE 61 and LE 179,
respectively.  Project risks pertain to farmers'
adoption rates, which are sensitive to such issues as
farmer responsiveness, extension effectiveness, and
coordination requirements among the different agencies
involved in implementation. The institutional
arrangements envisaged in the project should help
minimize the risks.
This document has a sticted distribubon and may be used by ripients only in the performance 
oftheirofficia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii,
Estimated Project
Costs:                                        Local       Foreign       Total
-  --(USf ilo)-
Incremental farm inputs              29.6        29.8         59.4
Farm machinery                       43.1        68.5        111.6
Workshops & spare parts              23.1        33.7         56.8
Seed processing                       1.7         1.6          3.3
Extension & training                 10.9         1.7         12.6
Testing & research                    2.9         3.1          6.0
Demonstration                        16.5         9.8         26.3
Technical Assistance                  1.2         5.4          6.6
Base Cost                        129.0       153.6        282.6
Physical Contingencies                  0.2         -            0.2
Price Contingencies                    50.8        25.4         76.2
Total Cost                       180.0       179.0        359.0
Less Taxes and duties                   6.8                      6.8
Total cost excluding
taxes and duties                    173.2       179.0        352.2
Financing Plan:
Bank                                    -          139.0       139.0
Cofinancier                             -          40.0         40.0
Covernment                             46.1         -           46.1
Beneficiaries                         133.9         -          133.9
Total                           180.0        179.0        a59.0
Estimated
Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990      1991
Annual                   6.9       22.1      32.0        36.0      32.0      10.0
Cumulative               6.9       29.0      61.0        97.0     129.0    139.0
Economic Rate of
Return (ERR):        30%
Appraisal Report: No. 5342-EGT, dated May 7, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of UStl39 million to help
finance a Second Agricultural Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-EGT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
An economic mission visited Egypt in October and November 1984; this section
is based on the findings of that mission. Country data sheets and
macroeconomic accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       Following an extended period of inward-looking and centralized
economic policies, the Government in 1974 began to gradually introduce an
"Open Door" policy with the aim of accelerating development by liberalizing
the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private investment.
Supported by large external capital inflows, the economy grew faster during
the next two years. Concomitantly, a rapid rise in foreign exchange earnings
helped narrow the current account deficit in spite of growing imports. During
the following five years, increased petroleum exports at favorable prices,
swelling remittances from Egyptian workers abroad, revenues from the reopening
of the Suez Canal, and rising tourist receipts facilitated this process.
Between 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew by 40% per annum in US
dollars, accounting for over 70Z of export earnings by 1980. The resulting
increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew by more than 9% per
annum during this period.
4.       The combination of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international or economic prices and domestic
prices for many of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy,
resulting in a severe duality in the economic system. Although the fixed
prices avoided stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with
access to controlled goods and services, they created major distortions and
inefficiencies in domestic production.
5.       Investment, production and employment in the private sector have
grown faster than in the public sector; however, the latter still accounts for



-2-
401 of total employment, 541 of value added, 601 of total expenditure and 701
of total investment. The public sector finances have generally been in the
red; the overall deficit has been around 201 of GDP. Although foreign
resources and private saving have financed a considerable portion of this,
between 30Z and 50X has been financed by borrowing from the banking system.
6.       Egypt's population, estimated at 45 million, is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.6Z per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area.  The family planning
programs have been weak, but a recent decree has strengthened the program's
structure within the Government. The rapid economic growth of recent years
has been stimulated by external circumstances and has had oDly limited impact              Q
on agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains are needed to meet the needs of the economy and provide the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 201 of GDP but only 11 of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their.levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
Recent Developments
7.       A reversal in Egypt's economy started in 1980, triggered by the fall
in the price of oil. In 1981/82, key macroeconomic variables took a turn for
the worse, with the reappearance of large deficits in the public budget and
the balance of payments and the rapid growth of both domestic borrowing from
the banking system and short-term borrowing from abroad. During 1982/83, the
Government took several important measures to redress the short-term
situation, even though it did not make much progress in tackling the more
fundamental items on Egypt's long agenda of pressing policy reforms. It
curbed imports and public expenditure, raised additional fiscal revenues,
reduced the growth of credit and retired some short-term debt. Both the
budget and balance of payments deficits were reduced. The one longer-term
issue addressed was export policy, which was greatly improved in ways that
will have quite favorable long-term consequences.
8.       During 1983/84, the deterioration continued.  The elections held in
May 1984 inhibited any further measures to curb domestic expenditure, raise
additional revenues or dampen imports, particularly of consumption goods.
Although the rise in domestic credit was a bit faster than in 1982/83 (20Z in
1983/84 versus 16% in 1982/83), the Government did restrain the growth of the
money supply, which fell from 28X to 201 in 1983/84, thus helping to reduce
inflation pressures somewhat. Petroleum exports rose 9%, in value terms, due
to a significant rise in volume; but they were still below their dollar value
in 1980/81.  Suez Canal revenues were constant at just below US$1 billion and
toucism receipts remained at the previous year's level of about US$0.5
billion. An unexpected rise in imports by 14% caused the current account
deficit to increase from $2.7 billion (11% of GDP) in 1982/83 to $3.3 billion
(12% of GDP) in 1983/84, despite a sharp jump in workers' remittances of
almost $800 million. Net longer-term capital inflows did not rise by as much
due to rising debt service obligations. The debt service ratio rose from



-3-
28.5% in 1982/83 to 30.1X in 1983184. As a result, short-term external debt
grew by about US$700 million and now constitutes 24% of overall civilian
debt. These are all well-known symptoms of an unsustainable external
situation pointing to the need for structural adjustments.
9.       The 1984/85 budget, delayed due to the May election, was presented to
the new People's Assembly only in September 1984. Several taxes have been
raised and, through the sale of a higher-priced loaf of bread, food subsidies
are expected to fall. Although opposition to this move in some quarters
caused its temporary roll-back, the higher-priced bread is slowly replacing
the lower-priced one and was about 80% implemented at the beginning of 1985.
The price of electricity was raised in November 1984--for the fifth time since
April 1982, and another rise is expected in the Spring of 1985. These rises
have kept the price of electricity from falling in real terms over the last
three years, arresting the steady fall over the previous decade. A subsidy on
cigarettes (about LE 170 million per annum) has been eliminated. Price
increases have also been authorized for some products manufactured by the
public sector. These measures are encouraging as first steps and are expected
to reduce the budget deficit from 222 of GDP in 1983/84 to an estimated 16% of
GDP in 1984/85, a level which is still much too large to be sustainable.
10.      The balance of payments deficit is likely to prove troublesome in
1984/85. The price of oil has fallen so that the large increase expected in
export volume is unlikely to result in higher dollar earnings. Reflecting
slower activity in the Gulf and turbulence in the foreign exchange markets,
workers' remittances are expected to decline. Non-oil commodity exports
(i.e., manufactured and agricultural products), which rose by over 50% in
volume terms from 1981/82 to 1983/84, are the one bright spot. Although these
are projected to increase substantially, they will not translate into major
increases in total dollar export earnings, as the base is small and commodity
prices in dollars have fallen sharply. The result of the above forces is that
foreign exchange is scarce. The Government has begun to cut overall imports
by raising prices and extending import controls. In January 1985, the
Government introduced a flexible and depreciated rate for use in the
commercial banks, initially set at LE 1.25/US$, while it abolished the own
exchange import system (on licensed imports financed by the sale of foreign
exchange deposits between private individuals). This means all imports now
require a license from the Import Rationalization Committee. As a result, all
commercial bank transactions which previously had occurred at LE 1.12/US$, and
those which had occurred in the free market at a rate which has fluctuated
between LE 1.30/USt and LE 1.40/US$, are now to be conducted at the flexible
commercial bank rate.
11.      While the introduction of a flexible, unified and more depreciated
rate for foreign exchange is to be welcomed, the extension of the import
control system is harmful to improving the competitive efficiency of an
already overly-protected, high-cost domestic productive structure. Egypt
needs to adopt policies (reduce subsidies further, raise publicly controlled
prices, cut the budget deficit, raise interest rates and rationalize
investment) to improve allocative efficiency and, in this way, manage more
effectively the demand for foreign exchange.



-4-
Development Potential and Constraints
12.      The external resource position facing Egypt during the 1980s
inevitably will be less favorable than in the l970s. Nevertheless, given
appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic growth
and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market, and the
Nile River provides ample and reliable irrigation to the country's
agricultural land. Favorable year-round growing conditions suggest that
considerably higher yrields are possible. Egypt has a key geographical
location, a relatively skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and
major reserves of energy; these would allow a substantial degree of
industrialization and trade in manufactured goods.
13.      Egypt has been making some of the needed policy adjustments, even if
at a slow pace. For the past three years the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund have been advising the Government to accelerate the process of
policy reform. Perhaps the most important of these is to increase energy
prices to international levels and to rationalize domestic energy
consumption. Curbing the growth of demand for energy and substituting natural
gas for petroleum fuels would encourage more efficient use of Egypt's energy
resources and would add to the exportable surplus of petroleum. There have
been some petroleum price rises to selected industries and, as stated, power
rate adjustments. But these have stopped short of the substantial and
comprehensive actions needed to rationalize energy use and reduce the high
implicit economic subsidy to users (on average, domestic energy prices are at
15% to 20% of internarional prices). The growth of consumer subsidies also
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targeting to low income
groups. This would ease the burden on the government budget, curb the
consequent inflationary pressure and reduce the growth of imports of basic
consumption goods.
14.      There is considerable scope to increase value added in agr:..ulture by
shifting to a more intensive pattern of higher value crop production and by
motivating farmers to raise yields. Farmgate prices have increased for most
crops over the past three years, and government procurement prices, except for
cotton, are close to world market prices. Loopholes and tax exemptions should
be drastically reduced to help improve Government finances. The foreign
exchange system should be further simplified and maintained flexible,
reflecting the value of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate
exports and ration funds for imports. Improvements in the structure and
operations of industrial production through export promotion, exchange rate
movements, more liberal pricing and production control policy, a carefully
designed investment program and greater autonomy in the management of public
sector enterprises would have a substantial impact on industrial productivity,
employment and foreign exchange availability. In addition to improving the
efficiency with which resources are used in the economy, most of these changes
would have a favorable impact on the mobilization of public savings and
foreign resources to help reduce the public budget deficit and restore
macroeconomic balance. Additions to the country's infrastructure would also
help reduce rising economic costs.



15.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of
essential policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lay the base for sustained growth
at rates close to those which can be achieved, given the resources available
to the economy. Assuming reasonable progress in the policy area, Egypt could
maintain growth of 5X to 6% per annum in the medium term. Although the public
sector budget and current account deficits will still remain high, both should
improve over the period; and savings and investment can grow at rates that
provide for longer-term growth on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal
revenues are not likely to rise as rapidly as in the past but non-oil exports
have the capacity to compensate for this. With sound policies, Egypt could
finanlce needed imports by additional export earnings and continued success in
attracting private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.      At mid-1984, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medium- and
long-term external debt was estimated at US$16 billion. Private
non-guaranteed debt has been assessed at about US$700 million. In addition,
other banking system obligations, including short-term debt, not reported in
the Debt Reporting System (DRS), are estimated to be US$7.4 billion; so that
Egypt's total identified civilian debt is about US$24.1 billion (82% of GDP).
Egypt's military debt is reported to be US$5.7 billion (excluding an estimated
US$3 billion military debt to the eastern block countries, which is not being
serviced). Total civilian debt service payments in 1983/84 are estimated to
be about US$3.4 billion, giving a debt service ratio of 30.1% as against 28.52
in 1982/83.
17.      The volume and structure of Egypt's medium- and long-term external
debt is dominated by large borrowing from official sources. Loans froL
bilateral sources comprised 60% of medium- and long-term non-bank debt
outstanding at June 30, 1984, and those from multilateral institutions 23%
(the Bank Group by itself is 1OX). The United States was Egypt's foremost
bilateral creditor (47% of outstanding bilateral loans) followed by Kuwait
(12%), Saudi Arabia (10%), Japan (9%) and Germany (6%).
18.      Given Egypt's immense development needs and growing resource gap,
gross erternal capital requirements are projected to remain sizeable. Even if
these were reduced to keep the debt service more manageable by curtailing the
growth of imports, appropriate macroeconomic policy adjustment would still
remain critical. Without this, external debt service could become
unsustainable in the medium term. The Government recognizes the urgency of
the matter and, as stated, has begun to take some measures. It is also
negotiating a possible standby arrangement with the International Monetary
Fund and is trying to obtain additional bilateral aid. This support, together
with appropriate policy actions, should enable Egypt to manage its medium-term
growth on a sustainable basis.



-6-
PART 7I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
19.      As of March 31, 1985 the World Bank Group had approved 41 loans and
31 credits to Egypt. Total commitments as of that date amounted to US42B44.1
million, of which USS1897.0 million had been disbursed.l/ About 34% of
approved operations finances projects in the industrial sector, while 18%
supports agriculture, 18X transport and telecommunications, 18% power and
energy, and 10% the social sectors (including education, population, urban
development and water supply and sewerage). Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1985.
20.      The strategy underlying Bank activities in Egypt during the 1970's
and early 1980's aimed at rehabilitating damaged capacity, improving
maintenance practices, eliminating critical deficiencies and bottlenecks to
development, and helping the setting up and strengthening of institutions. To
achieve these goals, the Bank supported development in a wide spectrum of
sectors and served not only as provider of direct financing but also as a
catalyst for bilateral and multilateral aid to Egypt.
21.      In support of this strategy, the Bank helped the Government
rehabilitate the Suez Canal, and assisted in maintaining the productive
capacity of the railways and of the agriculture sector. Bottlenecks in the
transportation sector (particularly ports) and in the power sector were also
addressed with Bank financing. Attention was also given to the provision of
productive inputs, with special emphasis on imported materials and energy.
Deficiencies in the areas of cement production, textiles, agricultural
productivity and skilled manpower were eased through projects in the
respective subsectors. Most projects included important technical assistance
components aimed at strengthening the implementing agencies and other sector
institutions. The Egyptian Electricity Authority, the Development Industrial
Bank and the Suez Canal Authority are good examples of Bank efforts to promote
institution building in Egypt.
22.      The Bank strategy for the future will focus on helping the country
restore macroeconomic balance through improved investment allocation, resource
mobilization, export promotion and employment policies. To do this, efforts
will concentrate on projects that raise output, exports and emplev-:nt in
agriculture and industry. Other projects planned to be financeo would support
economic development by providing the necessary transport and urban
infrastructure, as well as skilled manpower. The Bank's past experience in
these sectors is being supported by substantial economic and sector work to
enhance our policy advice to the Government.
23.      Continued dialogue is proceeding on macroeconomic and sector policy
issues, including energy pricing, agricultural incentives, and fiscal
disequilibria among others. The dialogue would hopefully lead to agreement on
some important policy actions that currently preclude Bank cooperation in
energy and related activities that would be good candidates for Bank
assistance. These include power generation, energy conservation, industrial
1/ These numbers exclude a 100 million loan for a Construction Industry
Project, a $170 million loan for a Small and Medium Scale Industry Project,
and a 8125 million loan for an Export Industries Development Project,
approved by the Board, but not yet signed, and a $59 million loan for a
Power III Project, which is not yet effective.



-7-
restructuring, fertilizer production, gas development and coal terminals.
Progress in this area would also facilitate the reactivation of cofinanciers
meetings to help finance an important share of Egypt's resource gap.
24.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY84 represented 11% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debt) were about 4% and 3Z,
respectively, as of June 30, 1984. These shares are expected to remain at the
same level in FY86 and FY87. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service
payments to the Bank and IDA will be about 5% and 0.2%, respectively, of
Egypt's external debt service payments. Disbursements have shown a rising
trend in the last three fiscal years, and reached US$347 in FY84, up from
US4252 million in FY83 and US4190 million in FY82. This trend is the result
of improvements in overall project implementation and of better knowledge of
the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures by the Egyptian
authorities.
IFC
25.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1985, totalled US$102.47 million. Most of the
Corporation's activities have been lending operations. The most important
projects financed are a project for an agricultural complex primarily for
sugar beet, a building materials project in Suez and a reinforcing bar project
at El Dikheila. IFC has provided technical assistance in the design of
incentives to private sector investments and in the development of the capital
market. IFC is considering several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
26.      Agriculture accounts for about 20% of GDP and 50% of total
employment. Historically, agriculture has been the dominant sector,
accounting for the bulk of employment and output, and crucial in providing
foreign exchange earnings and budgetary resources. Its role has been
underscored by the relatively strong growth performance during the 1950s and
60s, in the wake of agrarian reforms and the completion of the Aswau Dam which
brought about perennial irrigation and intensified farming. The continuing
and expanding use of Nile water for irrigation has been accompanied by a
gradual rise in the groundwater table, waterlogging and soil salinity.
27.      At the end of the 1960s the pace of progress in agriculture
decelerated, and agricultural growth averaged about 2% per annum through the
1970s. At the same time, demand for agricultural products grew rapidly,
reflecting both populatioa and income growth, declining real food prices due
to food subsidy policies, and the liberalization of imports due to the
emergence of several new sources of foreign exchange earnings. As a result,
imports of agricultural goods surged while the surplus of exportable crops was
steadily eroded. The overall trade balance for the agricultural sector, which
enjoyed a surplus of $300 million in 1970, showed a deficit of $800 million in
1977 and of $3.0 billion in 1983/84.



28.      With fertile alluvial soils, perennial irrigation, and maximum
sunlight conducive to plant growth, Egyptian agriculture enjoys high yields,
well above world averages, and cropping intensity of 190%. Wheat and clover
(berseeim) are grown in winter, and cotton, rice, maize and sorghum in summer;
and vegetable cultivation is increasing in importance, with three crop seasons
a year. Despite its inherent advantages, agriculture is beset with problems
which are partly physical and partly institutional. With only 3X of the total
land area (about 6.4 million feddans) being cultivable, the ratio of
population to arable land is one of the highest in the world, and rapidly
growing population and increasing urbanization have steadily taken over
agricultural land.  Arable land per capita has dropped from about 0.22 feddans
in 1960 to 0.14 feddans in 1984. The agrarian reform laws of the 1950s and
1960s, concentrated farming in the hands of smallholders, thus bringing the
average farm size down to about one feddan in 1979.  Inadequate drainage and
poor water management at the farm level have contributed to declining
production. Under these conditions, efficient, intensive, and high-yielding
agriculture is paramount to Egypt increasing its agricultural productivity and
production and to utilizing its comparative advantage in producing selected
commodities under improved farming systems.
29.      Past Government pricing policy has resulted in maintaining low
producer prices for such commodities as cotton, wheat and rice, combined with
crop area controls. Hlowever, at the same time, the Government has provided
fixed quantities of subsidized inputs such as chemical fertilizers,
insecticides, tractors and agricultural credit.  Despite these subsidies, the
net impact of this complex system of low procurement prices, area controls has
been a substantial net tax on the sector.  Moreover, the crop mix has been
distorted away from Egypt's efficient export crops cotton and rice to feed
crops required for the profitable livestock sector.
30.      The Government has increasingly recognized the magnitude and
complexity of the problem and has been seeking to ameliorate the si:-ation in
several ways; by not enforcing rigorously the crop area controls and by
raising producer prices periodically. For example, the Government has
increased in FY85 the procurement prices of cotton (282), wheat (20%), rice
(14.) and sugarcane (191). As a result, current procurement prices for most
major field crops, xcept cotton, are close to their internationally traded
values adjusted for transport and trade margins.
31.      The agricultural labor force, which peaked around 1972 with about 4.6
million persons, has declined in recent years. Increasing migration from
rural to urban communities and to neighboring countries seeking more
attractive employment opportunities and compulsory service in the armed forces
which tends to encourage the discharged servicemen to remain in the urban
areas have contributed to the problem. As a result, seasonal labor shortages
of adult males in agriculture have become pronounced, especially since labor
requirements at peak periods can be up to six times greater than during slack
periods in :he crop cycle.
Institutional Framework
32.      The institutional responsibility for the performance of the
agricultural sector rests with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The



- 9 -
Ministry of Irrigation (MOI), which is responsible for irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and services, including the allocation of water and operation
of the pumping stations, works in close coordination with MOA at both the
national and regional levels. The responsibility for preparing and
implementing all works for land reclamation is with the Ministry of Land
Reclamation (MLR). Among MA' s principal activities are agricultural research
and extension services, agricultural credit, crop area and production
controls, and farm mechanization.
33.      Agricultural research has a long tradition in rgypt.  The
Agricultural Research Center (ARC) is a large organization, with about 5,000
research staff. Most research is organized on a commodity basis; in addition,
there are separate research institutes for services such as soil and water,
plant protection, etc. Applied research has been constrained by an
insufficient focus on farming systems research, inadequate workshops and
libraries and antiquated laboratory facilities, a lack of transport
facilities, low levels of staff salaries and the shortage of funds. In 1983,
the Government adopted a fundamental reform to integrate research and
extension services, both at the ARC headquarters and at its seven regional
research stations. This action, together with the USAID's assistance through
the Egypt Major Cereals Improvement Project and the Egyptian Rice Research and
Training Project, has given a substantial boost to ARC's applied research
activities. Experience gained in pilot operations under the first
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT) indicates that a package of
inputs backed by a vigorous extension effort, particularly through field
demonstrations, would yield impressive results.
34.      Extension services has remained relatively ineffective because of
weak organization, poor motivation and inadequate training. The fundamental
reform of the service in 1983 and its merger with ARC to form a semiautonomous
Directorate General of Research and Extension has given the organization
adequate administrative and financial authority to carry out its
responsibilities. However, this did not result in an improved extension
service as expected. Consequently, with a view to strengthening the role of
extension in disseminating agricultural technology, the MOA took a direct role
in extension affairs and placed it under the Undersecretary for Mechanized
Farming and National Production Programs.
Farm Mechanization
35.      Mechanization of agriculture is widespread in Egypt where 90Z or more
of the farmers employ machinery to carry out at least some of their primary
tillage, threshing, water lifting and transport. The pattern of private
custom-hire operations is well established. The national stock of tractors
had almost quadrupled in the last 20 years, to about 48,000 in 1982. Other
operations such as planting, fertilizing, cultivating, harvesting, etc., are
mechanized to a negligible extent. Under the supervision of the MOA,
specialized cooperatives for mechanized farming have been established and a
national apex organization was established in 1984 to promote their
activities. There are at present 52 mechanized farming cooperatives.
36.      Manufacture and assembty of tractors is undertaken exclusively by
NASCO which is a public sector enterprise, licensed to assemble Yugoslav and



- 10 -
Rumanian tractors in the 60-70 hp. range. Other public sector companies, as
well as several private sector firms, manufacture diesel engines, agricultural
pumps, threshers and a range of agricultural implements. As a result of the
initiation of relaxation of import controls in 1973, agricultural machinery
imports increased significantly, such as implements, self-propelled units, etc.
37.      The laws regulating the import of farm machinery and equipment and
spare parts stipulate the markup allowed to dealers. Besides, there are
several committees and agencies regulating investments and imports, including
the Import Rationalization Committee (known as "Tarsheed") which approves the
issue of licenses for the import of items similar to those produced in Egypt;
and the Central Bank of Egypt must approve all letters of credit or other
foreign exchange transactions.
38.      In the past, the provision of foreign exchange for imports was at
widely different rates, which tended to give a competitive edge to public
sector importers over the private sector. Following the reforms introduced in
January 1985, the imports of seven strategic commodities (including chemical
inputs for agriculture) will continue at the official ("Central Bank Pool")
exchange rate of LE 0.70 = US$l, but other imports will be priced in
accordance with the rates sanctioned by the Central Bank of Egypt to
commercial banks for meeting foreign payments. A committee, headed by the
Governor of the Central Bank, sets the latter rate for commercial banks in a
flexible manner. The buying and selling rates were initially set at LE 1.24
and LE 1.25 per U.S. dollar respectively and are being reviewed regularly.
Agricultural Credit
39.      Specialized banks lending for agriculture and agro-industries consist
of 17 governorate-level Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC),
supervised by the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
CPBDAC); in addiLion, the Development Industrial Bank, Bank Misr and the
National Bank for Development also provide loans for agro-industries. At the
national level, PBDAC is responsible for overall planning, resource
mobilization and implementation of its programs through the BDACs. In
addition to its financial activities, it is also responsible for making
available all production inputs, imported as well as local, and for handling
the distribution of the various inputs, including fertilizer, pesticides,
spare parts, seed, feed and oil cakes, etc. The BDACs finance the production
credit programs and credit needs uf agricultural cooperatives and individuals,
including agricultural machinery hire service operators. The PBDAC group has
a network of 5,000 village banks and agencies and, as the principal source of
agricultural credit, its lending exceeded LE 600 million in 1982/83. The
PBDAC has been participating as a credit intermediary under various externally
financed agricultural and agro-industrial projects, including four projects
financed by the Bank Group. As a result of the efforts of the PBDAC and the
BDACs, locally collected savings and deposits have grown at an annual rate of
over 40%.  However, they are still insufficient to meet the rapidly growing
demand for agricultural credit which has been growing at over 25Z per annum.
Lending by comercial banks and other financial institutions for agricultural
purposes has been relatively small. The maximum rate of interest for
agricultural loans is set at 13%, which is negative in real terms when
compared with current inflation of 20% per annum. Given the controlled



- 11 -
agricultural prices, most agricultural loans of PBDAC enjoy low interest rates
of 8% for machinery loans, 5 to 6% for land reclamation loans, and 3.5% to
4.5% for short-tenm production. The difference between these rates and the
rate of 13% is paid by the Government to PBDAC to protect its financial
integrity. PBDAC's financial condition is satisfactory and its recovery rates
of loan installments and interest reached 96Z in 1982 and 1983. Under the
recently completed first Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT),
technical assistance and training in farm appraisal and lending procedure were
provided to the PBDAC staff to enable them to make medium and long-term loans
to farmers for machinery of their choice as well as for other farm
improvements.
Farm Inputs
40.      Egypt has sizable production capacity in both nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizers and, with marginal imports, the country is able to meet
its requirements of these inputs. Future demand for fertilizers is expected
to increase considerably with intensified farming. To meet its deficit in
fertilizer production, the Government plans to phase out old uneconomic plants
and replace them with modern plants of larger capacity.
41.      The seed industry has a structure and background which is substantial
and long standing. It is controlled in MOA by the Central Administration for
Seeds and has the structure for research, plant breeding, seed testing and
seed processing. However, because of ineffective testing, poorly managed
laboratories with outdated equipment and old processing plants, the seed
industry has not been functioning effectively. MOA is aware of these
shortcomings and is making efforts to reorganize the Central Administration
for Seeds, replace outdated processing plants, and re-equip obsolete
laboratories.
Constraints to Agricultural Growth
42.      In summary, the outlook for agricultural growth is affected
significantly by: (i) the extremely limited availability of arable land;
(ii) the worsening situation with respect to the water table and salinity
resulting from inadequate drainage and poor water management at the farm
level; (iii) the cumulative impact of the Government's price and production
policies, which have altered the cropping pattern and reduced farmer
incentives needed to increase productivity; (iv) labor shortages due to
increased outmigration from the sector; and (v) institutional weaknesses,
especially in applied research, extension and marketing. Besides, Government
investment in agriculture has been quite modest during the last decade. The
current Five Year Plan (1982/83 - 1986/87), which aims at a growth rate of
3.7% per annum, has allocated 13% of total public sector investment to
agriculture. However, more than half of this amount is for "new lands"
development--an activity which directly addresses the primary constraint of
land scarcity, but which has yielded disappointing results in the past. Of
the remainder, drainage is appropriately the largest single item.
Bank Group Activities in the Sector
43.      Bank Group operations over the past decade have sought to ameliorate
some of the physical constraints to agricultural production and provide direct



- 12 -
production support. As a major contribution towards the prevention of a
decline in land productivity resulting from rising water tables and salinity,
four drainage projects were financed, covering 2.8 million feddans of
irrigated area in the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt, and work on almost 2 million
feddans has been completed. As was pointed out by the post evaluation of the
First Upper Egypt Drainage Project (PPAR Report No. 5146 of June 27, 1984),
the limited capacity of the public sector construction companies has impeded
completion of projects on schedule; however, there has recently been an
improvement in their performance as well as in the capacity of the Drainage
Authority to supervise the works. The ongoing Irrigation and Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project is the first phase of a national program to prevent
crop losses due to drainage/irrigation pump failure and to strengthen the
concerned institutions. The Bank, in its role as the executing agency of the
UNDP, is also assisting with the preparation of a Water Master Plan for the
Ministry of Irrigation to determine the development and allocation priorities
for the Nile waters. In the area of land reclamation, the Bank Group has
financed the New Lands Development Project for reclamation and settlement of
24,000 feddans. The project is in its first stage of implementation. Through
a Technical Assistance Project, the Bank Group is also assisting the
Government to develop an institutional capacity in the MOI and MLR to
undertake planning, feasibility and engineering studies for project
preparation, and project units have now been established in these Ministries.
44.      The Bank Group has provided direct production support through its
loans to a Fruit and Vegetable Development Project, two Agroindustry Projects,
a Fish Farming Development Project, and the First Agricultural Development
Project. Several of these projects have suffered in varying degrees from
start-up delays, ineffective management, technical problems, lack of an
adequate number of experienced staff, and poor motivation resulting from low
salaries. However, with increasing Government efforts and intensive follow-up
by Bank staff, actions have been taken to relieve these constraints.
45.      The first Agricultural Development Project, which was launched as a
pilot operation for increasing crop and livestock productivity in the
Governorates of Sohag and Menufiya and sought to establish inter alia, the
feasibility of agricultural mechanization, is almost completed. This project,
which promoted project specific extension service and a package of
agricultural inputs, has shown encouraging results in terms of farmer
responsiveness, particularly when farm-level demonstration was provided.
Experience gained under the project indicates that the imported farm machinery
has to be adapted to Egyptian small-field conditions and its use demonstrated,
that the extension system should be relieved of regulatory functions and that
the system should be well-organized within Governorate levels as part of the
national agricultural extension service. The proposed project makes ample use
of these findings.
Rationale for Bank Lending to Agriculture
46.      On the basis of the experience gained so far, the Bank's future
lending would continue to support programs for (i) drainage and irrigation
improvements, (ii) land recLamation schemes of established viability, (iii)
provision of agricultural technological packages, including selective
mechanization and strengthened research and extension services as in the



- 13 -
proposed project, and (iv) agricultural storage and marketing services so as
to reduce post-harvest losses. A reform of the policies relating to input
distribution and controls on crop area, pricing, marketing of OULput and
onlending interest rates will continue to be sought in the Bank's dialogue
with the Egyptian authorities and will be supported through additional lending.
47.      The phenomenon of agricultural labor shortages and rising wage costs
in agriculture, as well as the need to quicken the turnaround time between
crops so as to increase cropping intensity and yields, suggests that Egyptian
agriculture would benefit from further mechanization of operations, especially
during the peak cropping seasons.  For the last few years, MOA has attempted
to promote agricultural productivity through mechanization, along with supply
of inputs and extension services. This strategy was initially based on a
proposal to organize a large network of government farm mechanization centers
that would provide machinery services required by farmers, through staff
working in parallel with the existing agricultural extension system. It did
not provide for the recovery of charges for such custom hire services. During
project preparation, which was actively assisted by Bank staff, the Government
took into account efficiency considerations and, as a result, the modified
proposal embodied in the project would facilitate and promote private sector
participation in the provision of custom hire services. The expected
institutional reforms and a carefully formulated approach to mechanization in
support of a technological package for increasing agricultural productivity
provide the justification for the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.      The proposed project, which was prepared with the assistance of the
Bank in early 1984, was appraised in May 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1985. Dr. Shafey, First Undersecretary for International
Finance, led the Egyptian delegation at negotiations. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Second Agricultural Development Project" (No. 5342-EGT) dated
May 7, 1985, is being distributed separately. The main features of the
project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and the special
conditions of the loan are summarized in Annex III. Map No. IBRD 18377
(attached) shows the se:en rice-growing governorates which constitute the
project area.
Project Objectives and Project Design
49.      The project would support the first phase of the Government's
national program to promote increased agricultural productivity through the
introduction of relevant farm technological packages, including farm machinery
services, to farmers in the seven rice-growing governorates principally in the
Nile Delta which cover about 50Z of the cultivated area of Egypt. To achieve
this, the project would make available to the farmers, through the existing
research and extension services, farming packages and practices which have
been tested and demonstrated as being efficient under Egyptian farming
conditions. To facilitate the adoption of improved practices, the project
would offer the farmer the option to mechanize certain operations, by making
farm machinery readily available through purchase from a network of private
machinery dealerships, or alternatively through hiring it from private
operators or specialized cooperatives. Agricultural credit and farm inputs



- 14 -
would also be provided under the project. The project would strengthen the
basic service delivery system in its various aspects, in particular research,
extension and seed supplies. The expanded role for the private sector in
providing machinery services, combined with a strengthened basic service
delivery system, as envisaged in the project, would provide a balanced
long-term institutional framework for Egypt's agricultural improvement program.
50.      The project would include the following:
ti) provision of incremental farm inputs;
(ii) provision of farm machinery with required credit facility;
(iii) establishment of about 35 new rural workshops and expansion
of some existing facilities to provide machinery servicing,
repairs and spare parts;
(iv) installation of a modern seed cleaning plant, refurbishing
two seed laboratories, and conducting a study of the national
seed industry;
(v) training of extension staff of MOA and of farmers in advanced
farming techniques, of machine operators and maintenance
personnel in the operation of farm machinery and its
maintenance, and of managers and officials of the PBDAC
system in farm credit operations;
(vi) establishment of one Mechanized Farming and Testing Center
(MFTC) in each governorate for testing of agricultural
machinery and demonstration of advanced farm operations (two
HFTCs already established);
(vii) setting up of small satellites for each MFTC (an average of
nine in each Governorate) to be known as Mechanized Farming
Centers (MFCs); and
(viii) technical assistance to support the operations and to
continue the testing and demonstration of technical packages
as well as to support the institution-building effort in the
agricultural credit sector.
51.       Farm Inputs:  The farm inputs to be financed under the project would
include seeds, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals. Funds would be
provided under the project to enable the procurement of the inputs by the
PBDAC, which has been engaged in their distribution through its own network of
centers, as well as through private dealers.  PBDAC's seasonal credit to
farmers for the incremental inputs would be provided at an interest rate of
13% per annum.
52.       Farm Machinery:  The project would provide foreign exchange needed
by machinery dealers and the government mechanization centers for the import
of farm machinery, and medium-term credit in local currency to farmers,
machinery operators and cooperatives, principally for "secondary



- 15 -
mechanization," (e.g., planting, crop cultivation, spraying and harvesting)
which has not yet gained general acceptance. In addition, foreign exchange
financing would be made available for the replacement of old tractors. Farm
machinery hire services are well established. There are at present about 15
farm machinery dealerships of varying sizes, and the number of dealerships
would be increased under the proposed project. It is expected that machinery
and implement prices and charges to farmers for hire services would find their
equilibrium as a result of competition, which the proposed project would
foster.
53.       Under the proposed project, lists of machinery and machinery
dealerships would be approved by the MOA. The machinery list would be based
on the results of tests conducted by the Government testing centers. The
criteria for approving dealerships would ensure, inter alia, that the dealer,
together with his agents, would operate a network of sales, repair and
maintenance facilities. An initial working stock up to a level of US$500,000
would be made available for each approved dealer and further provision of
foreign exchange would be made available on a replacement basis for machinery
sold. In order to facilitate prompt consideration of applications for
dealership and import licenses, MOA only would be required to approve
dealership applications and recommend to the Import Rationalization Committee
the issuance of license for the import of any tested machinery or implement.
MOA would ensure that import licenses under the project are issued
expeditiously, i.e., within 30 days of application in the case of machinery
already tested and approved, and within 60 days of application in the case of
items to be tested and approved for imports. Approvals or rejections by the
;10A would be sufficiently documented, and the documents would be made
available for review by Bank staff responsible for project supervision (Loan
Agreement, Sch. 5). The submission of lists of approved machiney and
equipment and dealers of machinery is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
54.       Dealers would obtain foreign exchange for import of machinery from
the Central Bank by payment of equivalent local currency. The amount payable
in Egyptian pounds will be determined for every dealer on the basis of the
higher rate of exchange of the US dollar in terms of Egyptian pounds that is
sanctioned by the Central Bank at the time of each payment and used by
commercial banks for foreign payments (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5). These local
currency deposits would be held by the Central Bank in a separate account in
favor of MOA. Out of this account, the MOA would onlend 75% of the deposits
(estimated at LE 100 million) to PBPAC in the form of a 10-year loan,
including a two-year grace period: at an interest rate of 9%. After allowing
a sufficient spread to meet its administrative costs, the PBDAC would charge
for its medium-term loans an interest rate of 13%, with a repayment period of
five years, including one-year grace period. For cooperatives, which enjoy
concessionary terms, the onlending rate would be at 10% initially, to be
raised gradually to 13% by July 1988.
55.       The proposed onlending rate of 13% corresponds to the rate of
interest paid by financial institutions for deposits and represents a
significant increase over the current rate of 8% which is well below the
current inflation rate of about 20Z (para. 39). While there would still be a
subsidy in the onlending, sharp increases in interest rates, especially in the



- 16 -
context of controlled agricultural output prices, might adversely affect
credit demand and impede the project's objectives. As the situation improves,
it is envisaged that further adjustments in onlending rates would be made to
unify the interest rates for all medium term loans and move them gradually to
positive real levels. In order to adapt its procedures to serve the needs of
the project, PBDAC would modify its security arrangements, accepting the
machinery as collateral without the need for land as security. As PBDAC is
prohibited by law from entering into commercial activities in machinery sales,
it would not permit any of its subsidiaries to charge dealers a commission on
machinery sales introduced through its offices (PBDAC Agreement, Section 2.04).
Workshops
56.       Financing for the establishment of 35 small rural workshops and the
expansion of existing ones would be provided through the PBDAC, which has
developed satisfactory lending procedures and appraisal capacity through
technical assistance furnished under the first Agricultural Development
Project. The procedures and systems developed by PBDAC would be extended to
the BDACs in the project area.
Seed Processing, Testing and Study of National Seed Industry
57.       The existing seed testing laboratories at Giza and Tanta would be
modernized under the proposed project. While staffing of the laboratories is
adequate in numbers as well as in quality, the proje_t would strengthen their
capabilities by providing for 48 man-months of training, both overseas and
local.
58.       The proposed 20-ton/hour seed processing plant at Tanta would
replace the existing smaller plant, which is operated by the Egyptian
Agricultural Organization (EAO). This new plant would be designed by a seed
processing specialist, financed under the project, who would be appointed not
later than January 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5). Necessary technical
assistance would be provided for startup and training of operators. The
project would also provide for 12 man-months of fellowships for the study of
processing facilities overseas and 12 man-months of local training.
59.       The proposed National Seed Industry Study would help determine
appropriate courses of action for reorganizing the seed industry and for
ensuring the supply of high quality seeds for all crops throughout the
country. The study wouLd be directed by the ARC and would utilize a team of
internationally recruited consultants (12 man-months) and local consultants
(12 man-months). The study would be completed not later than June 30, 1987,
and the Government would decide on appropriate actions to implement approved
recommendations in consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).
Extension Services and Demonstration Activities
60.       The project would operate through the existing extension system,
which would be strengthened, to enable it to undertake a key role in promoting
the project's technology package, including secondary mechanization.
Professional and technical guidance for the governorate level extension system
would be provided by MOA. The Directors of Extension in each of the seven



- 17 -
rice growing governorates would operate through District Extension Officers,
Village Extension Supervisors and Village Extension Workers. Under new
arrangements which will be initiated in July 1985, the regulatory functions
relating to crop land allocation, etc., would be separated and assigned to
other agricultural staff, while the promotional work of extension workers
would become the sole activity of the extension staff. These arrangements
would permit an increased ratio of one extension worker per 200 farmers. The
project would pay an incentive allowance to all extension staff under the
project (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).
61.       Support for extension staff would be provided by Subject Matter
Specialists and Demonstrators located in MFTCs and MFCs. The Specialists,
averaging one for about 650 farmers, would be drawn from the research
institutes and universities and would operate in close coordination with the
District Extension Officers. Besides providing technical expertise in
specific aspects of crop production or of specific crops, the Specialists
would, by involving themselves in the development of farm level demonstration
activities, get themselves better acquainted with farmers' problems needing
solution through improved research. The Specialists would be paid incentive
allowances (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5) and would be provided with motorcycles.
Existing agricultural services would be strengthened under the project,
principally through the provision of 706 Demonstrators. Each Demonstrator
would be responsible for three villages. They would be recruited primarily
from among the existing agricultural services and would be attached to the
MFCs/MFTCs.
62.       There would be one MFTC in each governorate.  The investment cost of
each MFTC is estimated at about LE 1 million, including LE 750,000 for
equipment and farm machinery. The demonstration program would commence with
MFTCs, which would carry out field days at central points within each
district. The dealers would be encouraged to participate in field days and
demonstrate their own equipment, besides those of the MFCs. At field days,
farmers would have the opportunity to view various new items of equipment and
to request farm-level demonstrations of particular equipment on their own
farms.
63.       In order to promote the demonstration program, there would
eventually be one MFC in each of the 60 districts in the project area. Ten
HFCs have been established already. The MFCs are essentially demonstration,
training and extension centers. They would be modest in scale, with the total
investment cost of each MFC estimated at LE 342,000, including LE 40,000 for
civil works and LE 225,000 for farm machinery. The project would finance the
phased establishment of 50 new MFCs (in addition to the 10 already
established) at the rate of 15 during each of the first two years, and the
remaining 20 during the third year of the project.
64.       While the cost of operating the MFTCs and conducting field days
would be borne by MOA, demonstrations carried out by MFCs at farm level would
be chargeable to the farmer. In order to ensure that the MFCs refrain from
competing unfairly with machinery hire service operators, assurances have been
obtained that the MFCs (i) would not undertake any activities that could be
construed as machinery hire service, but would restrict their activities to
the demonstration of tested machinery on farmers' fields, (ii) would carry out
r



- 18 -
demonstrations only once on any farmer's field, and (iii) would recover the
cost of such demonstrations from farmers at a level which would reflect the
full cost of operating the machinery (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).
65.       The role of the MFCs is envisaged as transitional.  As farm
mechanization gathers momentum, and the private sector assumes a major role in
testing, developing and promoting the use of machinery, the Government's role
would be confined to research and extension services. Recognizing the
transitional character of the HFCs, the project provides for a series of
performance evaluations of MFCs.  As two MFTCs and 10 MFCs have been
established already, the performance of the operating centers would be
evaluated initially and the plan for establishing new MFTCs and MFCs during
the first two years of the project would be reviewed by the Bank as a
condition of disbursement for this component of the project (Loan Agreement,
Sch. 5). An interim evaluation of the initial set of MFCs would be carried
out two years after loan effectiveness, before deciding on further
disbursement for the remaining 20 MFCs which are scheduled for construction in
the third year of the project. A final evaluation of the performance of the
MFCs would be made in the fourth year of the project. On the basis of the
results of the final evaluation of the MFC's performance and of the progress
made by private machinery dealers in carrying out demonstration activities and
instructing farmers about the operation of the machines, a determination would
be made on the phasing out of the MFCs and on their sale to cooperatives,
individuals or other organizations who might wish to use them as custom hire
service centers. The MFTCs are expected to continue their activities in
testing machinery and training operators. The project includes the provision
of service facilities in the MFCs and MFTCs for routine maintenance of the
center's equipment, and assurances have been obtained that all machinery and
equipment at all the project centers would be maintained in proper operating
condition (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Training
66.       The promotion and expansion of farm mechanization will significantly
increase the demand for training of demonstration teams, specialists,
mechanics, machinery operators, etc.. The HFTCs and MFCs would provide
required training to their own staff, as well as to farmers and cooperatives.
Provision has been made for 48 man-months of technical assistance to develop
specific training course materials, which would be utilized by the MFTCs and
MFCs. In addition, in order to extend appropriate medium-term lending
procedures by PBDAC in the project Governorates and to facilitate future
growth and effective monitoring and evaluation of agricultural credit, 48
man-months of consultant services have also been included in the project.
Testing and Research
67.       As part of the Government's strategy to encourage the use of farm
machinery and implements appropriate to Egyptian farming conditions, a
Principal Testing Center is already operating in the project area at Sakha.
The function of the PTC and the MFTCs under the project would be to (i) have
the manufacturers' machinery tested under field conditions in Egypt,
(ii) certify the appropriateness of such machinery and (iii) help introduce
the machinery to farmers at field days. Approval or rejection of any tested



- 19 -
machinery or delay in testing would be adequately documented, and such
documentation would be made available to Bank staff supervising project
implementation (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).
68.       In support of its efforts to strengthen research and development and
modification of farm machinery to suit local conditions, the MOA is engaged in
applied research for the development of mechanization systems for such
activities as tillage, sowing and planting, mechanical crop cultivation and
harvesting of small grain crops. The project would assist the MOA by
providing financing of a small amount of farm machinery items and components
for evaluation, modification and development. In addition, academic and
technical training of up to 60 man-months would be provided for study tours by
the concerned staff, and 36 man-months of technical assistarce would be
provided in the form of specialized engineers for applied research covering
tillage, planting, crop protection and harvesting.
69.       Technical Assistance:  The proposed project would continue the
technical assistance for machinery testing and studies that were begun under
the first Agricultural Development Project and would provide 210 man-months of
technical assistance personnel and 60 man-months of study tours for MFC
staff. Financing would be provided also to the PBDAC to implement the
recommendations resulting from consultant studies of its organization and
procedures. This would involve, inter alia, assistance in computerization and
development of management information systems, for which 48 man-months of
technical assistance have been provided.
Project Implementation
70.       MOA would assume primary responsibility for project execution,
through the Undersecretary for Mechanization and National Agricultural
Production Programs, who would be designated as the Project Director. He
would be assisted by a Project Executive Manager and five deputies responsible
for planning, procurement, finance and administration, monitoring and
evaluation, and extension coordination. The appointment of a Project
Executive Manager acceptable to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
71.       Coordination among the numerous agencies involved in executing
different project components would be the responsibility of the Project
Director. For this purpose, an advisory committee, presided over by the
Project Director and including the Project Executive Manager, a representative
of PBDAC, and two representatives of farmers would be established by October
31, 1985. aepresentatives of machinery dealers would be invited, as
appropriate, to participate in the committee's proceedings. Quarterly reports
on project implementation and project performance would be prepared by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which was established in the MOA under the
first Agricultural Development Project.
72.       The Principal Testing Center at Sakha would have supervisory
responsibility for all machinery centers and its managers would report
directly to the Project Director. The managers of the seven governorate-level
MFTCs would be responsible for the activities of their centers, and of the
district-level MFCs in their governorates. There would be close coordination
of activities between the MFTCs and the Directors of Extension at the



- 20 -
governorate level, and the MFCs and the District Extension Officers at the
district level. The project would operate through the existing extension
system, which would draw support from the Specialists and Demonstrators
attached to MFTCs/MFCs. Coordination between the extension staff and the MFTC
staff would be facilitated by the Extension Coordinator in the Project
Directorate.
73.       Credit activities under the project would be undertaken by the PBDAC
and its affiliates in the project area. PBDAC would be responsible for
monitoring the procurement of machinery and the granting of sub-loans, and for
reporting on them to the Project Director on a quarterly basis (Loan
Agreement, Sch. 5).
74.       Two years after loan effectiveness, a review of project
implementation would be carried out by the Government, in consultation with
the Bank, particularly with regard to (i) progress achieved in testing
machinery, (ii) the impact of the simplified import procedures on easing the
constraints on farm machinery imports, and (iii) an examination of MFC's
activities, records and charges to farmers, and an evaluation of their
effectiveness as an extension mechanism.
75.       The project is scheduled to be completed by June 1990.  Given the
significance attached to this project in shaping the Government's agricultural
mechanization program, the Agricultural Extension and Research Institute of
MOA would launch a long-term survey to evaluate the full impact of the project
components in relation to their contribution to agricultural production, and
the impact of farm mechanization on farm size, farm increases, labor
displacement and migration to urban areas, etc.
Project Costs
76.       Total project costs are estimated at US$359 million, of which US$179
million is foreign exchange cost. In view of the limited amount of civil
works involved in the project, physical contingencies are estimated at only
5%. Allowances for price contingencies have been applied at 16% for 1985, 14%
for 1986, and 12% thereafter for local costs, and at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for
1986 and 8% thereafter for foreign costs.
77.       The proposed Bank loan of US$139 million, together with two parallel
cofinancing loans amounting to US$40 million from the African Development Bank
and the African Development Fund, would meet the entire foreign exchange cost
of the project. The cofinanciers' loans would be utilized for financing the
foreign exchange costs of (i) incremental farm inputs, (ii) modernization and
expansion of seed production, and (iii) strengthening of extension and
training services. The signing of the cofinanciers' loan agreements is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01 (d)).
78.       The local currency resources raised by the sale of foreign exchange
provided under the project would be kept in a separate account of MOA at the
Central Bank. These funds wouLd be used by MOA for project purposes only and
would be allocated between PBDAC and MOA in the ratio of 3:1. The terms for
onlending would be as indicated in para. 54. The lending terms and conditions



- 21 -
would be included in a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PBDAC. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and PBDAC is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.01(b) and (c) and 6.01(d)).
Procurement and Disbursement
79.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(Ust Million)
Procurement Method
Direct
ICB   LCB   Purchase   Other    N.A.    Total
Civil Works                               5.0                                   5.0
Machinery                        142.2             8.0                        150.2
(83.2)           (8.0)                      (91.2)
Equipment                          5.2                                          5.2
(3.6)                                       (3.6)
Spare Parts                       68.3                                         68.3
(38.4)                                      (38.4)
Vehicles                           4.3                                          4.3
(1.0)                                       (1.0)
Office Equipment                                   0.2                          0.2
Incremental Farm Inputs           36.1            43.7                         79.8
Extension and Training                             2.5                          2.5
Consultants, etc.                                            4.8                4.8
(4.8)              (4.8)
Operating Costs                                                      38.7      38.7
Total                          256.1   5.0      54.4       4.8     38.7    359.0
(126.2)  (-)      (8.0)    (4.8)    (-)    (139.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan.
Machinery, equipment and spare parts imports under the project are subject to
international competition as follows: Manufacturers of farm machinery and
equipment from all Bank member countries (including Switzerland and Taiwan)
would be invited, through international advertising, to establish dealerships
in Egypt in accordance with Government regulations, which are easy to comply
with.
80.      Machinery, implements and equipment (other than tractors) required
for the testing and demonstration centers and for the research center would
be procured by MOA by direct purchase since these would be item-specific.



- 22 -
Tractors required for the testing, demonstration and research centers would
be procured from the machinery dealers in the same manner as any private
operator. Machinery and equipment for workshops and other items not
exce&1ing in the aggregate US*100,000 would be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are at present generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. Agreements were reached regarding the minor changes needed to make
the LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works for the testing and
demonstration centers would involve relatively small expenditure at any one
time as the construction cost of each center is estimated to be less than LE
50,000. These works would be widely dispersed over time (four years) and
area (seven governorates); therefore, bulking and ICB would not be
practicable. Consequently, LCB procedures, as amended, would apply.
Procurement of vehicles would be by ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for the provision of technical assistance would be in accordance
with Bank guidelines and subject to Bank approval.
81.      Disbursements out of the Bank loan for project components, which
would be fully documented, would be as follows:
(i) 1002 of foreign expenditures (US$124.5 million) for:
- machinery, equipment and spare parts, imported by
dealers;
- machinery and equipment for workshops;
- machinery for MFCs, MFTCs and for applied research;
- computer hardware and software for PBDAC; and
- fellowships and consultancies;
(ii)  100% of foreign expenditures, or 60% of local (US$1.0
million) for vehicles; and
(iii)  unallocated (US$13.5 million).
Where many small amount applications would otherwise result, statements of
expenditures would be used. A revolving fund in an amount of USt6 million may
be established initially in the Central Bank because of the expected large
number of orders and the consequent number of withdrawal applications.  It is
expected that final disbursements would be completed by June 1991. Because of
the pent-up demand for imported machinery in Egypt and the simplification of
procedures as agreed with the Government, and the experience gained by the
Egyptian institutions in implementing the first Agricultural Development
Project, disbursements under the proposed project are expected to be
expeditious-
Accounts and Audit
82.      Project accounts for each component, other than the credit component,
would be kept by the project office at MOA. Each MFC, MFTC and the Principal
Testing Center would maintain proper accounts and records and would employ the



- 23 -
necessary accounting staff for this purpose. These accounts would be
consolidated into the project accounts at MOA and would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Such accounts, together with the
audit report, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
83.      PBDAC and its affiliates and branches have been involved in other
Bank projects and found to maintain satisfactory records and accounts. They
would keep separate accounts for project activities, submit summary statements
for subloans, and maintain all the necessary records relating to subloans.
These records would be made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. PBDAC's annual accounts and statements of project accounts audited
by independent public accountants acceptable to the Bank, would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (PBDAC Agreement,
Section 4.01).
Environmental Impact
84.      The impact of intensified extension services would help increase the
farmers' awareness of conservation of farm land as well as of water usage.
Promotion of mechanized ditch cleaning would lead to improved drainage and
better use of irrigation. Assurances were obtained that agricultural
chemicals and herbicides to be imported would be determined by MOA pursuant to
appropriate technical standards (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).
Project Benefits and Risks
85.      Through the introduction of improved farming packages, and through a
specialized selective mechanization program which augments the technological
resources of farmers, the proposc' project would help improve the productivity
and incomes of about 650,000 farmers in the Nile Delta. Even in the case of a
smallholder with 0.9 feddans who would not be using hired labor, net farm
profit is expected to more than double by the seventh year of the project,
with no more than an average response to the new technology. On the basis of
conservative assumptions, incremental annual farm production at the project's
maturity in year 10 is estimated at US$224 million.
86.      The analysis of economic benefits shows that for an economic rate of
return of 18% to be achieved, the participation of about 30% of project area
farmers would be required. However, on the basis of more likely adoption
rates at different levels of response which will gradually rise to reach 50Z
of project farmers over a seven-year period, the economic rate of return (ERR)
is estimated at 30%. The sensitivity of this ERR was tested against changes
in costs and benefits. Tests for delays in farmer acceptance produce an ERR
of 11% for a two-year delay and 8% for a three-year delay. Thus the project
would be moderately sensitive to changes in costs but would be seriously
affected by an inordinate delay in farmers' adoption of greater cropping
intcnsification. Consequently, close monitoring of, and timely assistance to,
project implementation would be needed.
87.      At full de7elopment, which is expected in year 10, about 20% of all
Egyptian farmers cultivating about 25% of the total land would benefit from
the project. Furthermore, the project would also upgrade the processing of



- 24 -
seeds, improve the maintenance and repair facilities for agricultural
machinery and equipment, and build up a professional extension system. These
improvements, combined with the active involvement of the private sector in
supplying agricultural machinery services, should help easure the long-term
growth and stability of Egypt's agricultural sector. Apart from its
quantifiable benefits, the project would contr-bute to greater efficiency in
the economy through ti) promoting competition among farm machinery dealers;
(ii) rationalizing the pricing of imported agricultural machinery so as to
introduce uniformity in the pricing of imported equipment at rates which
reflect their true economic costs; (iii) improving the interest rate structure
for agricultural credit; and (iv) simplifying the import licensing system for
import of farm machinery.
88.      Lack of demand for farm machinery services is the major risk facing
the project. However, given the fact that the use of mechanized power is
already widespread for such activities as primary tillage, threshing and water
lifting, and based on the response by farmers to mechanization under pilot
schemes, the risk of a slackening of farmers' demand for machinery and
services would be minimal. The serious and growing shortage of adult fair.
labor and the rising level of wages for available labor are likely to
accentuate the demand for machinery services. Farmers' adoption rates are
sensitive to such issues as extension effectiveness. The reconstitution of
the extension system and the additional support to be provided to extension
workers by Specialists and Demonstrators provided under the project would help
increase farmers' adoption rates. Coordination of the activities among the
various agencies involved in project implementation is an area of risk. The
institutional arrangements envisaged in the project are designed to minimize
this risk by bringing about a better coordination of actions among the project
institutions at the nationaL level, as well as the governorate and local
levels1
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab RepLblic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the PBDAC and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of the project which are of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
90.      Special conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan are that (i) a
list of qualified dealers approved under the project should be submitted to
the Bank and the list should have a minimum of five qualified and approved
dealers representing at least five manufacturers; (ii) a list of machinery
already tested and approved for importation should be submitted to the Bank;
(iii) a Project Executive Manager should be appointed; and (iv) the
cofinanc-ng loan agreements should be signed and a subsidiary loan agreement
should be signed between the Borrower and the PBDAC, incorporating the terms
and conditions as indicated above (para. 54) (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Disbursements of loan funds for the MFC and MFTC component would be determined
on the basis of the results of initial and interim evaluations of the
functioning of the already established MFCs, as well as on the submission of a
two-year plan satisfactory to the Bank, for constructing, equipping and
staffing the MFTCs and MFCs (Loan Agreement, Sch. 5).



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMHENDATION
91.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1985



-26-                                                      Annex I
Page 1 of 6
oLA1 T A       .          H.S 3A
S    ~        ~~~ tll     COITH X=DU) U  is
(UtTM CINT S                       TqA
1 lWo ~~~~~~~~UTTL X, ,                           KIDDLZ  gbo IA 
TOTL.                              1001.4     1001.4      1001.4
ACSICtATAL                          24.6        26.4        21.4
am a  cux CM)                         300.0       170.0      69o.o  d/          1149.4                 2108.6
(KiuL1    oF OIL zU wIIY)           1980       213.0       44.0                22.1                  "5.5
mac  a1 n  suruz
P,IAZMND-              (TGLM     25a2.0    33053.0    44313.0*                            
llIl POSMA10U(1 CX G             a5 37.        42.2       44.7  d/            41.2                   665
POPU= III   DJICTt  
NPIA      Dl A  20M0 (MILL)                              62.8
TATAT POOT1I O CHULL)                                    114.2
POCUT201 IIQITUI                                           1.6
a   sqM.                          25.8        33.0       43.2                36.3                   35.7
PM SQ. M. IOtL LWND             1041.2      1162.6      1513.6              461.7                   92.4
POPlATIOI ACE SUIICWIJ (X)
0-14 VHS                         4L2         41.8        39.2               43.6                   39.9
15-64 TO                          54.7        54.9       57.1                53.1                   S6.0
65 MAD 1a5V                        3.1         3.2         3.6                3.3                    4.1
POPULATIS MOOIS I3A13 (X)
TOTIL                               LA         2.5        2.4  dI             2.8                    2.4
U03M                               4.1         3.5         2.9                4.5                    3.6
CDD  SuInI 341  (PR ITW)            44.3        38.3       14.5                40.4                   31.3
cR    DATH RSI (Pu TODUs            20.2        17.2        11.2               11.5                    8.1
amGSs _MznoucTu RAn                  3.0         2.9        2.3                 2.8                    2.0
FanLY P1.sIm
AcccWiB  ARAL (TWOUS)               ..       206.0       357.0
uSns (I oF wxm                      ..          ..       24.0                22.2                   40.3
FOOD ANFOD nOD. C.U
INDEX1 OF FOOD PMD. PIM CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       94.0        90         83.0                97.3                  114.3
PUR CAPI7A SUPPLY or
CAOIES r or  EQIHDWIIS)         109.0       105.0       116.0              110.4                  110.6
PuwDu MCEANS Pm  DAY)             76.0        73.0        78.0               70.1                   67.3
OF VHCH ANRIAL AD PULSE          19.0       17.0        19.0 tc            17.6                   34.1
CRILD (CCS 1-4) 05TR ATE            23.0        20.0        14.0               14.6                    5.7
LiFE EwrCr. AT RIM  (TUS)           *6.4        49.5       57.2                57.5                   64.7
'WUiT Mora. RATE (RU 1 TWA)        128.0       120.0      104.0               101.5                  60.6
ACCESS TO SAF WA15 (POP)
TrAL                                ..          ..        46.0 id            59.7                   65.4
11mAN                             39.5          ..       8t.0 8d S4.5                               78.1
UltAL                               ..          ..       50.07i              38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EUlET: DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATOI)
TOAL                                ..                      ..                 ..                   52.9
URN                                 ..          ..         ..                  ..                   67.0
11341.                              _.          ..          ..                 ..                   2A.5
FOPULATXIW1 P  PmSICIA            2550.0      1900.0      970.0 /a           6345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER UMSIlO PRSON             1930.0 /., 1620.0 /1  3500.0              1831.1                  615.8
POP. Pm  oSorPAL 1ED
Tam                               440.0      460.0       450.0 Ia           632.9                  367.2
RUJm                             510.0 if   360.0       680.0               5*3                    411.5
3111                            2190.0 if  2180.0      2410.0 Id           2513.5                 2636.3
AIISSIOE PM4U! OSPITL BED             ..          ..       30.8 Id             26.2                   27.3
*vnsm Wr Sor 1005111
TOTAL                               ..
UrsaN                              4.5          ..        5.Z0
ROAL                                                        .     
am-                                 ..               i .  ..
AVI     XL   r  aguglbom1.6                            /d '
ACCS TO RLICr. (R Or TNELL )
..                                              ..        45.7 Id            46.2
m--E                              37.8          ..       76.9  d             72.?
IAL..                                           ..        146 7;             16.11



-27 -                                                     Annex I
TABLE Z                                           Page 2 of 6
01?. AtUA REP. OF    - MA LDICS DATA S
EGP.AMA  EEl. OF             mHo M           m COC  (SCOUTE  WE3AZEI) La-
mmT                 ()8?T CINT  ESTIM) /b
BEI=          MImDZ  XICWu           mIDL  itam
1igtb    1970aLb    ESTIHATEb-   P. AntxA & mm EAT          LAT. AMERA 6c
ADnUmS EMO LLLET RATIOB
PUIKDALT   7TOAL                   66.0        72.0        76.0                88.3                   105.4
HALE                    60.0        ".0         69.0               102.5                   106.3
1601                   52.0        56.0        63.0                73.6                   104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   16.0        34.0        52.0                63.0                   43.2
HAIW                    23.0        46.0        64.0                52.3                    42.3
FEIALS                   9.0        22.0        39.0                33.0                    44.5
VOCATIONAL (Z 07 SECONMDARY)         22.0        19.0        21.6                10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TACNEI RATIO
PRIMAT                             39.0        3t.0        28.0                30.3                    30.1
SEcOlNDAR                          16.0        25.0        24.0                23.1                   16.6
ADLT LITXEACT DAEZ CZ)               Z5.8          ..        44.0                43.5                    79.5
PASSENGR CARS/7SOUSAND P0O            2.8         4.0        10.2                17.8                    46.0
RADIO  eaECEIvER/TnARD P1o           58.1       133.1       141.9               138.8                  225.6
TV  ECEIVERS/TElOUSAID Top            1.9        16.0        33.1                66.1                   107.2
N1PAPER C"DAUT GEERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLATI0
PER TtOUSAND POPLATION               ..        22.5        60.4 /b            31.2                     63.5
CINI AINUAL ATTEDACK/CAPI7A           2.6         2.0         I.J 7-1             1.7                     2.8
7OTAL lAlf FORC  (1T005)           7453.0      9Z4L.O    12332.0
FDoa   (PERCENT)                    7.3         7.2         6.1                10.8                   23.2
AGEICULTImE (PRCENT)               5.D         54.0        50.0                42.4                    31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0        19.o        30.0                27.9                   23.9
PATICIPATION RATEZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              28.9        28.0        27.8                26.2                    32.2
KALE                               53.2        51.5        50.7                46.4                    49.3
FEMALE                              4.2         4.1         4.5                 5.8                    15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDCr RATXO               1.6         1.6         1.5                 1.8                     1.4
INOnRnsmTIBno
RECEIVED BT
HICHEST 5 OF HOUSEHnLDS            17.5 j      17.4 / k   22.0 /1
GSBT wxor HOUSEHOLO9                6.6  1      7:0  A =k    5. 2R
IV     202 0F HOUSEWOLDS       44.4 7fl    428
LOWEST 4     HZ OF ROUSEUHLDB      17.5        18.7 k.1    14.6 7.
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IRONM
LEML (U$ M  CAPITA)
AN                                   ..          ..       131.0 fl            274.8                   263.2
RUIAL                                ..          ..        94.0 T             177.2                  184.0
LEL (MS nR CAPITA)
UBAN                                 ..          ..       10.0 A              402.6                   522.8.
RULA                                 ..          ..       118.0 7k            284.9                   372.4
ESTIMED POP. BELOW ASSOLUrE
POVELTY I N1E LEL (2)
USA                                  ..          ..        21.0 /
RURAL                                ..          ..        25.0
NOT AVAILAILE
NOT APIICALE
L    The grasp overage. for each Indtcacor era populaton-welgbtad arlcIatie mesa. Corag  oft eMerlo  _ag the  -
sodtcators impede oon m1aiabilty of data and la not undform.
/b   Unlarn otherutma noted. "Data for 1960r refer to any pear batme   1959 and 1961; "Dtca tar 1970" bet_mn 1969 ad
1971; ad data ftr  at laleet Estmalta ' bat_em 19f0 and 1982.
le  1977; f! -5?6; c6 eagiatared, sac aL1 practiciun In the country; /1 1962; I15978; lb 1979; /A 1975; L R ural
anpeodtur_a; JE1965; /I Natinal. for 1974-75.
/d Latest data (1985 World Bank Atlas):  1983 population 45364 thoudgh,
1983 GNP per capita $700, population growth rate 2.6Z.



- 28-                                                                  AnnexzI
-~~~~~~~  ~ ~   ~              ~              ~            ~               ~~Page 3 of 6
ttc catuee". .u-                                           -eh.a         -J.av   ad (32 a IIc   ie-ead-                                                        5  l
V. -1.  -w                                   -~~~~~~ge~ bi-   he-etl  luet)e  meeth  l.  .5   itt  t.eC  e"It.. _    I.-.. MScen . ..atceeumttcaa
*frllge.l.    .g,the ..Ie-.n&r.  dat ftt ga -a.             , a..  .Ie L"L.e   at Ith..elt gaea  -ly MAR. lgltee  .5  e        e.  an-1-   W ..j.ve.vath e ..e
grep  a. at fa  I..utt.eue,- al-l ch. ea .gea  pcuemEenta.se   uta% le         getati. tegad.-  the.R *eultHLle,  ci is. set. us aeltta. I-tie.  me ta
.e.,ea  I. lEat ug .......  en      ---eala   .......   .... ... a..utp  aItu  It -gee  uhc e"AIal... of   *htl.  keee     u tIln    egggete  lrt    a
ISA Ittaeleed at.h.l                                                     tr   .ftl9-  Mfltetbftiflfl -- kpgllfl  -lle  he t             t e-   pyaetll
- i-al etlte  ce-ut  .5 .uea .   atlas c.cra. IO.EwltiijLiflld1u- t aeIPIts  echlel at sleceelt  Lau-te.
iIYe  a  l.ge'gaae.                                              tWaeeie. pa.~~~~~~~~~~~HU! ttrPeeePceeaten    e tra   eute
I..  .eg.~g*.e.e  scag .   tleheeiced..    ta  la  aIl.. 1W.                5e1&gI-IlIts.
tl.s.d  ly   raupattl   ht..  .1. halE   I
mge*  4,. -   la UI (M)-Mg.a1    bit-.ehyu_el-e..   thlWO                                                                              eg  v-eldleg pa-elplI  -elel
"   -     -  -  __  -  ~'Id %-.  1- cleeti-aIs be.a.g-h"  a=s   -eldd    MWtal. ha                eta. ha., teets. he     a
"Lad   leth.l -le .ceeute  lea .c        .   l  qtellpt.l~mt.pel.*Ie tw .   la   altla
alt. ..' je.t t....                                          etelgalas -. tetlugI tat~r`.."`... -ITee " e  atd  e"leela., '. et dIaFIa
i.e.  h-la,u    Tli. (.he.a.d-'I--a'.1-m, et,  ecde.ggee?mud
taut.                                                                         Aengs gus -        eh.lt (peee-. -l.et.  .aIdIJI2- -u1aae. .P -diad. e..l
IltutEle.ul.t.a   'llI      al a   e.  .  aSuggla..-IheeI.  Is..eleal  Euseb                                                      dal     eI. Lge-uu-s,..
Pa  l.gls cc     M  _!.cr I Ie                                                                        men    TIegel Sn   a  - eegal ure. .g eele.vj   eec
esgt l   -  JIlI    avs.,te.lau-  ral-E...ateEaat     dl       Sp.ta.          e   I.Illarag.a  ple adelSaeegtP -
iiip~di~ia.u    caself  gilue.    e.lle                                         elee.v.aelev   teen  et                     s-tulle    Eetea   e
eguga.ecalaglee 1tsage. let  eregece vg.e taulIt I  steal..lleIsd -ale.1;
ee t tate  It  atilie-reed     e=en   be1   s  eugam
Plelu.  .rau.e.Pctt.e,uI  .ae.alud         t  Es  Ea IZU
raggta. a  .aelu.  etleellee  'adInpellel.  eree.                iu .slru.ehl.
telgel ..l.uu- ~e        tII  4l   etee-ed I   etleyte..   eeI aEea   g3   sl.gg     raaaal   El  Il1t
tIEs  eau ue ctIeat  e-f  l.ug  eti   sae ue-aeelte  gielte  geeggn I  Il  at. u  Et p1.1.  let -pe.eeee a  la.eE
tea.: laae ae-la.al   a.edI   cleu    es   .upEl   ee-d   .eele;eqel  sug   heteg tI
lettrll  eelI   t.tt.ppIEs   t  hn   ae      egs                 ea.hl  dag  I.dle.a   gstc.   elIt..aesmc
I.al.a.et   al  tlcluea  ev*ueeglaclg-euclag.eeaas  ceva    -latFetyee legale   rts,  .gtelu
vee.g getucg    ~  hele*.eel   tyle   s   eI   g aegIsul  dlltl.ta l.-                                              t  lttlgeuae  levagi4e.-e
tn.s  h  El  thI tpltese  u..lI.. Ileehe.a. tuIag~  ge.             Ileaeell  at:  -""I'aae   e   aegeae.  ee.
eaagl. la-   ecaee  e eu  hggargg  egy   heaelalyaeldd
see  -  C    peele jg I. ge  eerA g   aaee  -    eege.1   e       gealage  .reESa  tegaag  t e.-ea-tl- eelaUtuu-tl
allgIIuagt   c.ltgaec  teu.elV       l  Iageul  egae                            elt  elgcl.lgra.-atr  qa                         tt   gcc
utlca.e.-emsuhetl.eelt.e  cecgue  eteggreg.e.Icee  Ice vea  e  lgapgtaeup -- iggvt.gtg  t gaeset  ItelI-.gee
ageega ~      ~         a Igt*t.vet-eea   aue   le    e   lte       I.    ta                                                                   gEau
feegege Ic e.a.gc                                           pm-li  i ...eg.e   1.-g  tlclegIh    negett.ehreleth
Perea.he - ed--a  laelage  -eeeat  lIee  115 tectea   el..la_agtghheeta
lea  ae:  ul.  te.al   .   ee,sellleaa  a. seae     Lcegsaal.eat g   td  e -*.



- 29 -
eCT -  OIC INDICATOES
p-latioel 95.6 .iIli.. (mid 19833                                                                                                       8 8
CW per capita: Us t700 */ (INWdollsr2                                                                                                    *   6 of 6
Amut CaUll e
UlSIat crenmt                                 ANNUAL   CUOUTE   RATES   I'l
prica.)                       ACTUAL A 17.                                             a AiC  9   T 1  D
1982183      1978   1979  1980161    INI/82    1982/U3  7M            19123I  1iN/6    1WU07    1117185
NATOSAL ACCOUr5
Cross D_at`e trrduct b/         27034.0        8.0    9.7       8.7       6.7        3.9        5.3       5.0        5.4        5.2       4.1
-   riculture                 30657.0       5.9    4.2       3.5        3.0       3.0        2.1        2.4       2.6        2.7        2.7
Industry cl                   5359.0       11.0    7.9       r.9       7.3        7.5        5.2       5.9        5.9        5.3       4.9
Patrolem                      3163.0       22.0   10.3    18.9         6.1        7.1        9.9       6.2        9.5        9.9       4.7
svices                       11740.0        6.0   13.2    10.2         9.9        9.1        9.5        5.6       5.2        *.0       4.2
Coeaq_tion                      22434.0        4.4    9.3    10.7         7.6        5.5        3.0        3.6       5.G        6.2        5.3
Cross Ime.tut                    8296.0       10.5   10.6       Z.9       10.9       1.6       -0.6        .5        1.9        2.3        1.3
ECpota of CGS                    785.0         3.1    0.9       3.5      1U.1        4.8        9.1       5.6        7.7        8.1        5.3
Imports of GW                   11548.0        6.3   15.3       9.6       9.0        5.1       15.7      -2.1        3.2        3.6       3.6
Crvos Raticenl Savim             5551.0       23.6   -3.4    -6.6        -4.1        -          -         -          -          -
PRICES
G.r Datlator                                  57.6   70.5    65.1        92.2      100                                                    -
Rchanm  Rates *1                               1.85    1.43     1.35      1.23       1.164      -         -          -          -
Sharse of w  art Markt Prices (2)                   A9;ra. tmetesae (2) at Conatant Puices
(aL Current pricesl                         a11                2 Prices  1982113Pricas
1975  1979  1980/81  1912  19821,3  lW3/5U  I9MAM               195W1AY5        sfU7Y5-1     <FYhUF
Cros Domestic Product
- Agriculture               28.2  19.9      9.2    18.5    18.7   1U.9    17.9                   5.1           2.0            2.5
- linutry * Pattole_ c1   26.8  34.1    36.1    33.4    32.5    31.3    36.4                    2.9           11.8            6.3
- services d/               *2.7  61.Z    40.3    42.7    43.4    64.3    66.9                  4.4           11.1            4.9
Cen_mpUeio                  67.7  35.8    35.9    65.7    33.0    *7.5    36.6                  8.0            7.7            5.3
Cro-. Invemtmnt             33.4  32.3    29.5    30.4    30.7    28.2    23.6                  6.2            7.9             1.5
Export of CS                20.2  29.7    33.4    12.0    29.1    28.8    29.9                 22.8           10.2            7.1
import of CS                61.3  48.3    48.3    46.3    42.7    64.         40.1             13.5            3.9            5.0
Gros N.tioml Saving         13.2  21.8    19.2    16.3    20.5    17.0    15.4                  17.2          27.0             -
As 2 of CDr
1975   1979   1980/s81   I951/2   1982U    93/U   1987/88
PUSUC rI238C
Curr-nt Rev_n                22.Z   22.1      27.0      26.1      26.8     25.9      26.2
current Expeaditure         40.5   35.8       39.Z      60.6      41.9     62.0      37.8
Current Surplus (.) or
Deficit C-)               -11.3  -13.7    -12.2    -14.5    -15.1    -16.        -13.6
Investment  Empenitue        17.2   20.0      21.7      23.1      21.6     19.5      15.3
rareign Financing             5.9    3.9       6.4       6.0       5.9      5.6       3.7
1970-75  1975-80  1133418
0255 IMDWCAITRS
GM growth EAts (Z)              5.0    11.5      4.8
ClG per capita gro.th
rate (2S                      2.7     8.7      2.2
Enery cons_ tion growth
rate (2)                      5.3    13.6      5.5
L          toOK                            -       3.6      5.1
marginal Saviags Rate           -       0.A6    0.12
Import Elasticity               1.7     0.9      0.9
*1  Samed an Wortd Bk3a  Atlas mthodology (three year average e   rchan  rate).
brj GDp for 1962/83 at current prices is valued at market prices. Sectoral shares and rates of groutb conern GOP at factor coar.
rl NuEfacturing and Minin. Electricity sad Csnutruction.
dJ Distribrtion sod Service Sectors.
.1  Weighted average of all current account items including transactions. under the free arhket rate.
April 1985



- 30 -
Page1~f
SG   - EUIMAL TnA
Pepuletis        *i11  C L 1903)
GNP per capitat USS?If 3 dollarw)
Amount tilliou                   LAnial OCutbh 3.C 1.   * CXat Constact 1912703 Prices
11N at curwut
prie~~~~~~~~~~L13 e}_                           T.           P 9 O J F C T C D
prices)                                     ..UA        U. I=ECI
192/3    1971       N      W79  L    Jl/    *V85   I376 Il/S    65/86   86/87   87/33
lNrehandise burwt.            5251        6.0    19.2        7.6    12.2    -1.8    17.3         5.4     8.5      6.9      5.0
-  Prinary y                   473      -30.0   -17.7    -15.2    15.2   -16.7    37.0           1.0     3.3      3.2      3.9
-  N.ufacture oI               612       24.6   -40.3    -16.7        1.9    13.8    20.4        7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0
-  Petrol.m Si                4106       21.9    71.2       16.6    13.4   -10.4    14.6        5.7      9.4      9.9      4.9
Merchandise Import.           9651        7.1    14.o       10.6      5.2    -6.7    18.6    -2.9        3.1      3.5      3.2
- *eod                        2395       27.0      2.2      21.0      4.1   -10.4    23.1   -13.6        4.0      4.0      3.8
Petrolem                      493        0.6    43.7       13.7    58.0    -2.2    11.0        7.2      7.1      6.7      5.9
- nchimry and Squip_eet    3t32          -2.6    27.2        9.1   -12.1    -1.1    -4.1        3.0      1.7      1.3      1.2
-  Other3                     3631        5.5    10.4        5.2    19.5    -9.4    29.2    -0.4         3.0      4.1      3.1
Prices
Export Price Index                       66.4    86.8    109.5   100.4   100.0    96.4    91.e    94.3   103.6  I3.8
Impact Price Iedu                        81.4    92.4    105.0   100.3   100.0    90.7    95.9   102.1   110.0   11e.9
Tero  of Trade Index                     61.6    9U.9      104.3   100.1   100.0    ".7    95.8    92.9    94.3    95.7
Co.p_ itiOe   of Merchbadise Trade (2)   Average Lzmeal l7cresee (Z)
(at current prices)           at costat 1952/83 pri:ce
1979   80/01  a2183   83/84  671/U         783/tY3   M13/flU
Exports                                                                          7.1      8.9
Prim_r'  1/ 3.7                          9.6    9.0    11.2    9.4         -10.2       8.9
na_fecturesb/                   15.4    10.5   11.7   12.4   12.6           -13.7      9.6
Pstroleu/'                     70.9    79.9   79.3   76.5   78.0             19.1      8.8
lopwrt                                                                          6.2       4.9
Foed                           22.8    27.0   27.0   28.2   24.7              5.4       3.6
Petrolm                         3.1      3.2    5.1    4.6    5.3            24.6      7.6
Machinery                      37.4    36.6   32.4   26.2   26.8              5.3      0.6
Others                         36.7    34.1   37.6   41.0   43.2              5.3      7.4
Sbare of Trade with        Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
industrial Countries (S)   Deeloping CoLuntries (Z)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters CX)
1965  1970   1975  1961   1965  1970   1975  1981             1905    1970    1975    1981
DIRZLTO1 Or TRADE
Experts                  27.0  17.0  14.0  52.0   IB.0  Z2.0  10.0  36.0                 1.0     1.0       4.0   3.0
Primry                29.0  19.0  18.0    -       17.0  22.0  11.0      -             -       1.0       3.0     -
Manufactures           19.0  12.0   3.0    -    23.0  23.0   9.0    -                4.0      3.0       5.0     -
Imports                  55.0  42.0  60.0  75.0   13.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                 -        -        4.0    1.0
*1  lamed an Vorld BflLn Allan umthodology (three year average exchang  rate).
GI llot including oil nd oil products.
/ Includee forein oil compas"o, experts.
April 1985



- 31 -
Page 6 of 6
*PT - BALANCE  F PAOr     TS Umu    CAPITAL AND DEW
(million UES at current pricem)
ES?.                P R O J C C T E&D
1978   1979   1980/81  1981/82    1982/83    1983/o84    fl9ai        1985/56   198618      1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non-Factor
Service.                               4099    5401    7803       .62        7855        8487       S748        9788     11433       13052
- of which erchandi.e f.o.b.              2558    3987    5617      57:9        5251        5935       5961        6674      7958        9162
lmport of Coeod. nd Naon-Factor
Service,                              -6612   -8781  -11404   -11665        -11548     -13141      -12800      -14069    -1569      -17530
- of which  archandine cif.             -S99S   -7817  -10334   -1380          -9651      -11060     -10658      -11692    -13040      -14563
-  ;! factor Income                       1098    1376    1190       151         952        1329        855         727       7S6         902
Net Private Tranasfer                       54      89      63        5t          26          26         29          31        35          38
Current Account Balance                   -1361  -1915   -2348    -3501        -2715       -3Z99      -3168       -3523     -3445       -3537
Private Direct Investment                  387    1516    1036      1325         966         897       1014        1097      1182        1270
ILT Loan and Crant  (Net)                 1141    1011    1244       985         1546       2031       2091        2332      2347        2476
- official loan. and grants               1028     749    1020       945        1257        1762       1762        I"4       1802        1914
- private                                  113     262     224        45         289         269        329         488       545         562
Other MLT Financing  /                     305    -305     -82       "l6          63         -17        -80         -70      -250        -370
Overall Balance 2/                        -472    -307     150       615         140         389         143       I1A        164         IfI
lnternational lReerves 3'                 1504    1090    1697      2313        2381        2687        -           _
- of which gold                            104     104     103       775         578         757        -
Reeerves ea Months Import. 41             3.0      1.7     2.0       2.7         0.6         0.5        0.6         0.8       0.9        --
EXTENAI CAPITAL AID DET
Croes Disbureemente                       2758    2291    2595      3082        3299        4164       4354        5052      5313        5732
Official Crants 5/                      291      72     279       395         4W          9W        1000        1100      1150        1175
Concessional Loans                     1600     996    1301      1034         941         862        751         793       963        1091
- DAC                                   799     833    1103       900         785         697        621         641       779         871
- OPEC                                  93       43      69        28           0           0          7           0         0          0
- IA                                    45       55      73        U8         136         142         72          53        35         24
- Others                               663       65      56        i8          20          23         51          99       149         196
Non-Concecaional Loans                 867    1223    1015       1653        1958        2402       2603        3159      3200        3466
- official export credits               44       50      83       1S          146         162        144         135        89         63
- IDBD                                   57     118     154       111         120         204        196         248       286         330
- other multilateral                     18       5       4        is          19          17          16         10        14          19
- private                              748    1050      774      1339        1673        2037       2247        2766      2811       3054
External Debt 6/
Debt outstanding and diabursed           9995   11596   13389    14730         15612       16672
- official                            3507    9554   10927    11932         12383       13273
- privte                              1483    2042    2462       2797        3229       3399
lndisbursed Debt                         4390    4629    5951       5013        4612        4327
Debe Service
Total Service Payment                     1190    1246    2081      2371        2890        3414
- intereet (official MIr)              415     428      759       912        1080       1180
- payment as 2 export. "/             21.5    17.3    21.3      26.3         28.5       30.1
Average Intereet Rate on New Loan.        4.6      5.4     6.5       7.3         7.5         8.0
A-erage Hatunity of New Loan. (years)   27.9    24.5    19.5        16.9        14.4        14.7
I/  Including special balance of payments finaneing and unallocated item.
2/ Minus (-) indicates accumulation of foreign *acet.s
3/ Foreign aeseta of Centrsl Bank.
/ Merchandise only.
5/ Including apecial balace of paymenta grants.
6/  Excludes soe benking syatem Liabilicies.
7J Exports of goods and servicee (including worker s remittance.) but not foreign oil companiea exports.
April 1985



-32-                                 A= Et
iq tL a 2
IME 9IS1    WIll CMIWP GDTIE  tN WM
A. 97;iT OF SWIE E&A1 AND MA CUS 1/
th of Haich 3, 295
Amut in millicm U dOLava
LmiVCirdit     Ipprned       Bwlx.        pIurpoe                                 (Iw_ caallatitn)
32 Ioma Aar Credit ftully diabned 2/                                        603.4   351.0         -
In 1239           76          APA        Al eandria Part                      45.0       -         8.8
EA 1276-T  /      76          AME        Fruic an Vaptmble Dv.                50.0       -         10.1
Cr 637            76         ANl          Uper zpC kaini  Et                    -      40.0        0.7
in U85            76          ARE         Uppr FypC Dminqm rt                  10.0      -         6.1
La 1369           77           I          Alandria 1hter iply                 53.2       -         4.1
Cr 719            77          ARE         tale Deta kiaq  lt                    -      27.0        0.8
Ln 1'             77          AME         Nile Delta Danq  TX                 27.0        -        6.9
1-    -T 3/       77          AE          mile kLtai Dim    it                12.0       -         3.0
Cr 830            78          AE          Agricuitwal Dwm1qar                   -      32.0         1.3
Cr 831            78          AM          Urban Dwlqpnt                         -      14.0        2.5
Cr 850            79          AME         Papulahon E                           -      25.0        9.6
cr 868            79          AME          Astion tt                            -      '.0.0       7.8
In S-14           79         AUE           I.w Valley RtBaLite EOrgzering
aad Thunical Aaaiatane           ILO        -         3.2
Cr 909            79          AE          lburii                                -      32.5        17.9
Cr 935            79          AE          9Soumh El 1eim  bza.l Powo            -      37.0        2.1
In 1733           79          MA          Shoubzah El  eie   Term  P r 4t  102.0         -        27.7
Cr 988            d0          AME         Agmoidustries                         -      45.0        7.2
Ln IBM 5/        SO           DM3         04w1m   lndustrial  m*k IV          38.4       -         0.5
In I2 5/          80          ARE         1DB                                 28.9       -         17.3
In 159            80          AIE        Fulp and POWr                        50.0      -         13.2
Ln 186            80          ErA         PoMWr III                            7.0       -         3.4
Cr 1052           o0          EEA         Pouer lII                             -     120.0        9.2
Cr U69            Sl          AR          Education nI _1                       -      30.0        17.8
Cr 108            81          ARE         lNL Li1 DDev5elgpv-                   -      60.4       36.1
Cr U11            81          AME         Fish F&azming                       -        10.9        7.0
Ln 2C02           81          HAIISCA    Hadiuolb l.habilitsticn              64.0       -        58.0
Cr 1.56           S1          ARE        Bhheixa thc   Supply 5                 -     45.7        32.6
Cr 1162           81          AME        mIdical MA.iu;ace !'                   -       5.7        4.7
Lt 2%41           82          AE         Telecamauirations II                 6L.0       -        57.5
Lii 2074         82           DMD        DIe4wlnt Izatrial lki V             120.0       -        32.4
in 2103           82          am         Abu Qir Gas Ibwlqa.t                 90.0      -         26.4
Un 2176          82           ARE        Gteater Cairo Iktb Dkel t            59.0      -         52.2
Un 2183          83           ARE        El Dihtila Purt                     132.0      -        129.9
Li 2243          83           AE         Agroimbzatries 11                    61.2      -         69.8
La 226f.          83          ARE        Vocatinal Trahnu                     38.0      -         37.5
ln 2270          83           AME         trrigation Puiag SUMtion Kub.    41.5         -         39.4
LIn 2280          83          AE         El Dilduila heizixtiig  ar          165.3      -        151.8
tn 2330          83           AME        Pad Maiteunwe                        24.0      -         23.9
mi 2352           8t          AME        lIer Supply aid Seiuge DS.            4.0       -         4.0
U' 2458 6/       84           AME         Sa11Md. Scale rd.                  170.0       -
La 2459 Y/        84          AE          13qpt LzXhatieN DM.                125.0       -
La 2460;/        84           AME         cacruction  Diatry                 100.0      -
La   86 7/        84          EU         PoWr IlI                             59.0       -
Tols (exc4dieg 6/ & 7/1                                                    1.920.9   923.2       947-1
Of  idich ha. been repaid                                                    197.0      4.2
Total onu outstaadi,g                                                      1.723.9   919.0
Aut  sold                                       7.5
Of 'mchab been repaid                           7.5
Total now held by BDark an                                                  ,723.9   919.0
V/ Me status of die project. listed in Part A is deribed in a sepscte       an all BIWiWL finmxed pajects
in excution, which iG qupated cuice YClY amd ciEculared to the Eatiu   Dizuctas on April 30 and  rcrber 31.
21 Daccxis 3 cmedits fEr e%uaritEg woch wet  mme ly  efizmted. ad a US3 milliuo  PFY Amee grzed
for dte Gtaer Caim 1nm  lemlqnt Pruject.
31 7hird Wjitow To.
li Ibt irLc11- is EC Special Action Credit 20 of W=5.0 million eqdntla.
51 Crdit dawzuted in 91t.   Ro  dim  ts_ USS e*malent ac tmof zE octitm  for the MA mm .   *d W$
eqrivlet at Mardi 31. 198f for dte uzidisaed sat.
61 MIt siped as of 3131185.
7/ Ibt effecti,&.
April 29, V85



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page Z of 2
EGYPT
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                   Type of Business                 Loan     Equity    Total
C(Us M-illion)-
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company     Ceramic Industry                   6.63     1.11      7.74
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry        0.43     0.16      0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company      Agricultural Production,          20.00     3.51     23.51
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing          12.07     2.29     14.36
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish            Food and Food Processing           3.45     1.05      4.50
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company      Building Materials                30.00       -      30.00
84    El-Dikheila               Iron and Steel                   95.20     7.20    102.40
81    Luxor Hotel              Crocodile Tourist Project         4.41      0.72      5.13
Total gross commitments                                           172.19    16.04    188.23
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                             85.76       -       85.76
Total commitments now held by IFC                                  86.43    16.04    102.47
Total Undisbursed                                                  99.13     9.60    108.73
(including participants portion)



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 or 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DPTA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare project:  6 months (September 1983 to
February 1984).
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:        Ministry of Agriculture
(c) First presentation to World Bank:           September 1983
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:             May 1984
(e) Completion of Negotiations:                 April 12, 1985
(f) Planned Effectiveness:                      October 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) A special condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan is that a list of
five qualified and approved dealers representing at least five
manufacturers and a list of machinery already tested and approved for
importation should be submitted to the Bank (paras. 53 and 90).
(b) The procedure for the import of farm machinery, equipment and spare
parts would be simplified (para. 53).
(c)  The interest rate charged by PBDAC on all medium-term loans for the
purchase of agricultural machinery would be raised to 13% per annum,
except that, for cooperatives, the rate would be raised to 10% and
increased annually until it reaches parity with the rate on machinery
loans to other sub-borrowers within a three-year period (para. 54).
(d) MFCs would not undertake any activities that could be construed as
operating machinery hire service and would comply with the principles
governing their operations as envisaged in the project (para. 64).
(e) Counterpart funds would be deposited in a special account with the
Central Bank which would be utilized in accordance with the arrangements
envisaged in the project (para. 54).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f)  As an initial condition of disbursement of loan funds to MFTCs and MFCs,
an evaluation would be carried out of MFTCs and MFCs that are completed
and in operation to ensure, inter alia, that their activities are in
accordance with the functions and operational procedures as envisaged in
the proposed project. Two years after loan effectiveness, or upon the
establishment of 30 MFCs under the project, whichever is earlier, a
review of project implementation would be carried out to determine
further disbursement of loan funds for the establishment of additional
MFCs (para. 65).
;



:.:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
~~~~i                                 3 1-                        -  -                            r
EGYPT
:-r; Potqect Area             SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A   Universities
*   Research Stationm
O    Seed Processing Plants
-32.     OD   Seed Laborataries
-- -Govetnowole Boundaries
e   Govemorate Capitols
5   Nutmber of Disticts
Rivers
A                                                M AtL DrjFRR A NE A    SEA
1l 6 ) ~~~~~KAFR EL SHEIKH                             |t14 > Ps,to;di
BEHEIRA         4   OHARBIYAo4          . ,J         * YA
4w      0  G. 8g     1           HAKIA             t
GO   som                    o I   rz
-                                               A q
zve~ ~~BEER                      GH      GiYj    El^R SimioiJ
a0 
O..*        f          SHARKI A
---     >-, @  -   T   9-oi~~~~~~~~~~1
_~S__         b E,LFAY.OU  g         . t -ZVI_ 
e--_   !        '  -'0 --~J            1' J}|[t0|E7S ewo 7  Ze     se\  ;   t  *   l 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C. -'" -.



