Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.t ~ --      __-,    ,
Report No. 5342a-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
S^ECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1989
Eulrope, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
!Ihi% docunient ha% a restricted distribution and ma' be used bh recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma% not otherwise be disclosed w%ithout World Bank authorization.
l   ____________



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Egypt has multiple exchange rates:
USS1.00  =  Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.70 (official rate)
LE 1.00  =  CSSlA2-^S
US$1.00  =  LE 0.82 (official incentive rate)
LE 1.00  =  USS1.29
Sincc_ Jarnuary 1985, a flcating rate has been introduced, which
is adjusted daily.  This rate is currentIv as follows:
US$1.00  =  .E5 1.25
TE 1.00  =  `SsC. SO
--;%ECGETS AND MEASURES
I r.ectare            =  2.379 'eddan
l feddan              =  1-038 acres
! acre               =  0.963 feddan
s square Kiioneter  =  238 feddan
PRINCIP>AL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARC    =  Agricultural Research Center
r.DAGC   =  Bank for Lev-eLoDment and A_ricuItural _rec:-t
CGiS    =  Central Administration for  eer-
CBE    =  Cenerat  oan  of E7y2p
DE     -  L-D rector or zxtens:on
DEC    i'S~rct Ex-tensionOfie
DE     =   ee c:-en t Indus:rial Ban'-
EAO    =         an   Ian Aaricult. ra  Organizat:ori
EI P  =  7       X_t  hI'.cr  -_reals  rnmro'vee:mt_ ?rWe_C
METGC =  .r.t - z-*'> -a'2-r -,   1  est_;  e: 
MCA    -  :'n'str  c -
=BD          i;.0.-   ;
-,3DAC  =   rirc:I -' a k; c.r '        e;D-=s ;!-,  t  g!ncll  cMr 
PEG    -  ~r-:n-' a    --st..  .e-~ro~ao
S.-s
=  .'LLL.  .-.
.!!Iv   ' '  .;



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                        Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              i-ii
I.    THE SECTOR                                                               1
A.  Agriculture in the Economy                                           1
Land Reform and Farm Size                                            2
Agricultural Production                                              2
Land Resources                                                       3
Water Management                                                    3
Price System and Structure                                          4
Agricultural Labor                                                  4
B.  Agricultural Services                                                5
Research
Extension                                                           5
Farm Inputs                                                         6
(i)  Fertilizer                                                    6
(ii)  Seeds                                                         7
C.  Farm Mechanization                                                   8
Current Status of Mechanization                                     8
Regulation                                                          9
D.  Agricultural Credit                                                 10
E.  Cooperatives                                                        12
F.  Sector Strategy and Bank Involvement                                12
Agricultural Development Strategy                                  12
Bank Involvement in the Sector                                     1'4
[I.    PROJECT AREA                                                            16
General                                                                 16
Climate                                                                 17
Agricultural Production                                                 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May 1984
consisting of Messrs. T. Baddar, M. Pease, T. Turtiainen (Bank), S. Silbiger
and J. Robinson (consultants).
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                                         Page
III.   THE PROJECT                                                             18
A.  Project Rationale                                                   18
B.  General Description                                                 20
C.  Detailed Features                                                   21
(i)  Incremental Farm Inputs                                    21
(ii)  Farm Machinery                                             22
(iii)  Workshops and Spare Parts                                  24
(iv)  Seed Processing                                            25
(v)  Extension and Training Services                            26
(vi)  Testing and Research                                       28
(vii)  Demonstration                                              29
(viii)  Technical Assistance                                       32
D.  Project Costs                                                       32
E.  Project Financing                                                   34
F.  Procurement                                                         35
G.  Disbursements                                                       36
H.  Accounts and Audit                                                  37
I.  Environmental Impact                                               37
IV.   PROJECT IMPLaEIENTATION                                                 38
A.  Management and Organization                                         38
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                           39
V.   PRODUCTION, ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND RISKS                                 40
A.  Production                                                         40
B.  Economic Benefits                                                  43
Financial Analysis                                                 43
Economic Analysis                                                  45
C.  Risks                                                              46
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                   47
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File                        49
Tables
I    Consolidated Balance Sheet of PBDAC and Its Subsidiary
Governorate Banks                                                     50
2    Consolidated Revenues and Costs of PBDAC and BDAC Activities             51
3    Financial and Performance Ratios of PBDAC Group                          52
4- 9  Cost Tables                                                              53
10    Procurement Table                                                        59
11    Disbursement Schedule                                                    60
12-16  Financial and Economic Analysis                                          61
17    Indicative List of Machinery To Be Purchased under the Projqct           68
18    Incremental Usage of Farm Inputs                                         69



Page
Schedules
1      Terms of Reference for Evaluation of MFTCs and MFCs                  70
2      PBPAC - Terms and Conditions of Loans to Borrowers                   71
3      -mplementation Schedule                                              73
Chart    World Bar.k 27362 - Organizational Chart of Agricultural
Sxtension Services                                                   76
Map     IBRD 18377 - Egypt, Second Agricultural Development Project



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Government of Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:               US$139 million
Terms:                Twentv years including a five-year grace period
Project Objectives
and Description:      The project objective is to improve farm productivity
through introduction of integrated farming packages in
the seven rice growing governorates involving about 50%
of Egypt's cultivated area. The project would include:
(i) provision of incremental farm inputs; (ii) provision
of agricultural machinery and spare parts;
(iii) machinery repair and service facilities; (iv) a new
seed cleaning plant and two seed laboratories;
(v) training in extension, machine operation and
agricultural credit; (vi) mechanized farming centers for
testing and demonstration of new machines; and
(vii) technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would directly benefit about 650,000 farmers
with incremental annual production amounting to LE 280
million (US$224 million). Further, the project would
help ensure that selective mechanization is promoted as
part of a broader package of improved agricultural
practices and would facilitate expanded private sector
activity in the sale and servicing of farm machinery
through simplification of import procedures. No unusual
risks are involved in the project but, as with other
agricultural development projects, its success would
depend on farmer responsiveness to extension and
coordination among participating agencies.



- ii -
Estimated Project
Costs:                                          Local       Foreign       Total
------(US$ Million) -----
Incremental farm inputs                   29.6        29.8          59.4
Farm machinery                            43.1        68.5          111.6
Workshops & spare parts                   23.1         33.7          56.8
Seed processing                            1.7          1.6           3.3
Extension & training                      10.9         1.7           12.6
Testing & research                         2.9          3.1           6.0
Demonstration                             16.5          9.8          26.3
Technical Assistance                        1.2        5.4            6.6
Base Cost                              129.0       153.6         282.6
Physical & Price Contingencies            51.0        25.4           76.4
Total Cost                             180.0       179.0         359.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                                       -         139.0         139.0
Co-financier                               -          40.0          40.0
Government                                46.1         -            46.1
Beneficiaries                            133.9         -           133.9
Total                                  180.0       179.0         359.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                               Bank Fiscal Year
1986       1987      1988       1989       1990        1991
Annual              6.9       22.1       32.0       36.0        32.0        10.0
Cumulative          6.9       29.0       61.0       97.0       129.0       139.0
Economic Rate of
Return:               30%



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture is the largest sector of the Egyptian economy,
accounting for about 20% of GDP and about 40% of total employment. in
contrast to strong earlier performance, agricultural growth declined to about
2% per annum during the 1970s. There was, at the same time, a rapid increase
in the demand for agricultural products, reflecting population growth as well
as improved incomes, which led to sizable imports as well as an erosion of
exports. As a result, the agricultural trade balance, which had shown a
surplus of about $300 million in 1970, turned to deficits of US$800 million in
1977 and US$3.0 billion in 1983/84. Self-sufficiency in wheat and wheat flour
reached an all-time low of about 25% leading to the import of about 6 million
tons. Thus, Egypt which was essentially self-sufficient in food production as
late as 1960, has become increasingly dependent upon food imports in the last
two decades. During this period, Egyptian agriculture has been subject to
policy changes, particularly in the area of pricing and marketing, which
involved the diversion of a large share of agricultural surplus for investment
outside the sector, and subsidized urban consumption of major agricultural
crops. The repercussions of these policies emerged in the 1970s, being
reflected in the reduced agricultural growth rate accompanied by an exodus
from the rural areas. More recently, however, the Government has initiated
efforts to improve farmers' incentives, with a resulting improvement in
production (para. 1.06).
1.02      The implementation of several major irrigation projects for storage
and transfer of the Nile waters as well as for increasing the resources of the
Nile permitted a shift over the years, from basin irrigation to perennial
*rrigation which led, in turn, to an expanded cropped area and increased
cropping intensity. However, as drainage did not keep pace with irrigation,
there was an increase in the levels of underground water and salinity,
affecting soil productivity. Further, with the removal of top soil for use in
the production of bricks for construction, and the use of crop land for
industrial sites and housing, there was a significant shift of agricultural
land to nonfarm purposes during the 1970s. However, Government has undertaken
a s-ries of projects to improve drainage (para. 1.44) and. more recently,
begun measures against encroachment on agricultural land.



- 2 -
1.03      The total population of Egypt currently stands at about 45 million.
Egypt's annual population growth rate which had been only about 1.3% before
World War II, increased to 1.8% in the postwar period, to 2.3% between 1947
and 1960, and is currently about 2.6%. This trend is gaining momentum and
adds to the strains of the country's food security situation, while reduced
foreign remittances and increased foreign imports are leading to a
deterioration of the foreign exchange position.
Land Reform and Farm Size
1.04      Following the agrarian reform laws of the 1950s and 1960s, an area
of almost one million feddan was expropriated and distributed to those owning
little or no land. Maximum farm size was limited to 50 feddan for an
individual and 100 feddan for a family. In the period 1960-79, the number of
farms over 50 feddan decreased from about 11,000 to 8,000 and their area from
about 930,000 feddan to about 850,000 feddan. The average farm size in this
category increased in the same period from about 85 feddan to about 107 feddan
due to the fact that organizations and companies also started to farm and
these could own larger areas than 100 feddan. In 1979 about 95% of all
landowners owned only about 51% of the total cultivated area or an average of
about 0.9 feddan per farm, as compared with about 1.09 feddan in 1960. In
addition to the small size of farms there is excessive fragmentation of
holdings, a consequence of the right to inheritance of all family members.
Agricultural Production
1.05      Cotton production increased between 1977 and 1982 by about 18% due
to an increase in yields resulting mainly from the introduction of better
varieties, improved farmer incentives and more effective pest control, in
spite of a 25% decline in area. This record level of production coincided
with a period of depressed world market conditions, particularly for
extra-long staple cotton, and led to a buildup of stocks. In response, the
Government reduced the cotton area further so that, by 1982, the area devoted
to cotton was only 1.07 million feddan compared with 1.6 million feddan in the
early 1970s.
1.06      Cere?. production, which was affected by stagnating or declining
yields in the second half of the 1970s, has improved slightly in recent years,
reflecting the impact of Government's efforts to improve varieties as well as
to strengthen producer incentives. Wheat production, which declined
considerably in the late 1970s, almost reached 2 million tons in 1982, the
highest level since 1975. Incentives to rice producers have more or less kept
pace with increases in cost of production, and output has remained at about
2.4 million tons. Maize production, on the other hand, has shown an
increasing trend both in area and yields, reflecting its higher profitability
relative to other summer crops resulting from a farmgate price approaching
world market levels and the use of its by-products as livestock feed. Among
other crops, broadbeans recorded a 26% increase in output in 1982, compared
with the previous year, and soybeans about 13%, both reflecting some f armer
response to prices and incentives (para. 1.10).
1.07      The fruit, vegetable and livestock subsectors continue to be the
most dyrnamic because of their generally higher profitability. Among fruits,



- 3 -
there has been a shift away from citrus because of price controls. Despite
large areas devoted to feed crops, the growth of meat production has averaged
less than 2%, reflecting the high land intensiveness of this activity. While
increased red meat consumption began to push up domestic prices, the
Government's initial response was to set price controls.  More recently,
however, it has encouraged the production of meat substitutes (fish and
poultry) and has increased meat imports through official channels.
Land Resources
1.08      Only about 3% of Egypt's total land area is presently cultivable.
Though the additional water availability resulting from the Aswan High Dam
raised cropping intensity on the "old" lands and allowed the reclamation of
about one million feddan of "new" lands (about one-sixth of Egypt's total
arable land), average size of a holding is only 1.6 feddan with 95% of all
holdings averaging only 0.9 feddan (para. 1.04). The deteriorating balance
between population and arable land is a major constraint for agricultural
development in Egypt. While the population grew from about 10 million at the
beginning of this century, to about 28 million by 1960, and to about
45 million at present, the arable land area has grown at a much slower pace
and is now estimated at about 5.5 million feddan with a cropping intensity
close to 2.0. Out of about 0.9 million feddan of reclaimed land, only about
one-half is productive, partly due to deficiencies in technical design and
partly due to poor management. Prospects for viable land reclamation are
limited because of the marginal soil conditions of the areas still open for
such effort and because of the costs involved in providing the needed
irrigation and developing related infrastructure. On the other hand, as a
result of the loss of a significant area to nonfarm purposes, arable land per
capita has been dropping steadily since 1937 from about 0.33 feddan to
0.22 feddan in 1960, 0.16 feddan in 1975 and 0.14 feddan in 1984. Under these
conditions, Egypt can meet its domestic food and other requirements only
through highly productive, efficient and high-yielding agriculture: that is,
by producing under improved farming svstems, the commodities in which it has a
comparative advantage.
Water Management
1.09      Water management is another important constraint for Egyptian
agriculture. In accordance with the traditional practices, water has been
provided free of charge which, with the typical on-off pattern of
distributior., has led farmers to over-irrigate, resulting in a steadily rising
water table and increased salinity in some areas. Deterioration in soil
conditions has reduced crop production in both old and new lands. The
Government made a start in addressing this issue during the 1970s through a
large investment program in drainage.  This is beginning to have an impact,
despite weaknesses in maintenance, design and construction which the
Government is seeking to remedy with Bank assistance. Related to excessive
use of water are problems of operating and adequately maintaining the
country's extensive irrigation system.  Existing irrigation structure's and
equipment need to be rehabilitated and replaced; better water control' of the
on-farm distribution system s necessary for improving agricultural vields;



- 4 -
and production can be increased and costs reduced by modernizing water
delivery systems and improving water management at the farm level.
Price System and Structure
1.10      The Government's intervention in the sector through price and area
controls, and input distribution policies is extensive. This has led to low
producer prices for such major commodities as cotton, wheat and rice, and sonie
compulsory requisition of a few commodities. Despite the Government's
subsidization of the major agricultural inputs, the result has been a net
taxation of agriculture (para. 4.04). This in turn has encouraged farmers to
switch to producing alternative uncontrolled commodities, as is reflected in
the shift towards production of fruits and vegetables and towards livestock
feed crops at the expense of cereals and cotton. Another result of this
policy is that it sends conflicting signals to producers. The cotton falrmer,
for example, is subject to a melange of policy instruments, including heavy
export tax and domestic tax on output prices, a buffer stock price support,
input subsidies, physical controls over input usage and minimum area planted,
and incentive payments to expand acreage and plant early. The Government has
been seeking to ameliorate the situation by raising producer prices for
various crops in recent years. 1/ Moreover, although crop area controls have
been maintained in a few cases, they are now administered more liberally than
ir. earlier years.
Agricultural Labor
1.1l      The decline in agricultural employment is an important feature of
Egypt's agricultural situation. The agricultural labor force which appears to
have peaked around 1972 with a high of about 4.6 million persons declined by
1979 by about 0.6 million persons :.r 14%. This decline consists almost
exclusively of adult males. 2/ Further, the seasonal shortage of agricultural
adult male labor, mainly from May to July and September to November, which
became manifest in the mid-1970s, leads to delay in certain agricultural
operations or poor cultural practices, such as in land preparation, planting
and harvesting. These shortages are caused by: (i) migration from rural to
urban communities and to neighboring Arab countries; (ii) the compulsory
education system; ani (iii) compulsory service in the armed forces which telnds
to encourage those discharged to remain in the urban areas. This trend does
not appear to be reversing itself, as is witnessed by the continuing migration
out of the rural areas and the reluctance of the majority of those who left- to
return to rural life.
1/ Increases of Government set prices occurred in May 19S4 for beans
(17%), lentils (34%) and sesame (34%). Ir. late 1984, cotton price was
increased by 28% and wheat by 20%.
21  Based -. findings of the ILO study "Emloynment Opportunities and
Equity irn a Changing Economy:  Egypt in the 1980s," Geneva, 1982.



- 5 -
B. Agricultural Services
Research
1.12      the Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of MOA is a large research
organization with about 5,000 research staff, of which about 700 have Ph.D.
degrees, and includes the Plant Protection Research Institute, the Pesticide
Laboratory, and the Soil and Water Research Institute. Most research is
organized on a commodity basis with separate institutes for field crops,
horticulture, cottoni, sugar, livestock production and animal health. In
addition, there are separate institutes for services such as soil and water,
plant protection, plant pathology, insecticides, veterinary vaccines and
serums.
1.13      Most institutes have substantial professional and support staff,
many of whom are well qualified and trained. Their ability to conduct
meaningful research is limited by a number of constraints: (i) insufficient
focus on farming systems research; (ii) inadequate workshops and libraries;
(iii) antiquated laboratorv facilities; (iv) lack of transport facilities;
(v) low level of staff salaries and (vi) shortage of funds. However, with a
view to improving research and extension, in early 1983, the Government took
decisions (later modified as explained in para. 1.15.) (a) to reorganize ARC
under a Director General for Research and Extension with Deputy
Directors-General for Research, Extension and Production at the national
level; and (b) to create posts of Directors-General for Research and Extension
along with Deputy Directors-General each for Research, Extension and
Production at seven regional research stations in the country. Assistance
from USAID through EMCIP and the Egyptian Rice Research and Training Project
have helped in providing support for research on grains, rice, forages alid
legumes in terms of materials, vehicles, some operating expenditures and
supplementing salaries of research staff and some training abroad. There is
increasing evidence that, with adequate support, viable research programs can
help develop technological packages which can be transmitted by extension
agents to farmers.
Extension
1.14      Until recentl'v, the system of agricultural extension hIaS be-TI
inadequat  vy organized, with extension staff being poorly motivatted,
supervised and trained, performing varied tasks and devoting nuch oU thtir
time and efifort to regulatory work.  MOA at the national level w-is orrgalizted
into 1-1 departments tor aCt _V L I-S such as agricultural economics, pl:i:'t
protection ..ud seeds.  Since suparate departments were provided for almoSt all
activities r-u:icerned withF agricultural production, activities of the
deoartmeint uf "extension" were confined to the restricted role of providinig
communicaLtic,- support, while the varied technical functions were carried ouLt
by their cou;;t-rparts at the go-;erncrate. district and field levels.
i.15      The reorganization referred to in para 1.13 above did not result in
an inproved extension service as expected.  Therefore, in March 1985, NO.-
return.ed the directora.c A  extension affairs to the central ac!nmirstratiaon



- 6 -
within the Ministry under the Under Secretary for Mechanized Farming and
National Production Programs. MOA proposes to maintain and strengthen the
interrelationships between extension and research bv regular interaction
between extension and research officials at all levels. Furthermore, MOA has,
by decree, established the extension function as separate but coordinAted with
agricultural regulatory affairs at governorate level and below. Thes
non-extension activities include:  regulation of areas under different crops;
actiivities related to rrariceting and processing; and legal matters such as land
reform, etc. Such functions would be served by a separate stream of the
agrzculzura' crganization structure down to the village level. it is expected
that this reorganization wili provide the extension service with the specific
ouroose of dissemination of agricultural technology. Moreover, by placing the
e:tension service under an Under Secretary having specific responsibility for
extension affairs, the extension service will be in a much stronger position
to develop effectiveiv. unencumbered by regulatorv functions, and yet
maintaining close relationsship with the research service at all levels
(Chart - ';crld Bank 27362).
'16           92n /S2183 under a contract with Boston University, partly financed
uncer -he  -'rst Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT), a team of
exoerts ass-sted in the Dromction of a project-specific extension service
i4--ed to a pacckage of inputs for rice production.   The program first
-onducted -trils to determine the soundness of proposed improvements and then
composed a package of reccmmended improved cultural practices using a
combin--tion Of existing research packages and others developed under the Rice
Research and Training Project.  The package included:  application of zinc;
earIy plar.ting; improved weeding; im.Droved fertilizer placement and
a?? ica:-on; ar.d increased plant population per feddan. A team of 20 rice
e:xtension acdvsers was recruited, each responsible for a district covering 30
to A0 v-llages (about 30,000 to 60,000 farm families). Each extension adviser
was responsible for seven applied research trials under the supervision of the
30osto-  team.  in addition, the provision of 40 to 100 feddan demonstration
areas orovided an opportunity for the extension advisers to demonstrate their
s:.Tlis at growing rice.  The program, which was initiated in mid-1982, showed
ercoura-g-, results 'n terms of farmer responsiveness to a package of inputs
back ed  y :'viorous extension, particularly through the techniques of
demons-ra..on.  The demonstration concept underlying this successful effort
:orms a'n -_:ortaant -ngredient in the extension approach of the proposed
pro -ect
a s: .; z. . 
:.6 '-re are six fertilizer companies in Egypt which operate 10 plants
wi... a o -_       ; cbtainabie capacity of 72/,100 tons of nitrogenous fertilizer and
93,CQ0- -D-.S Of ohosDhatic fertii-zer.  xa 1981/82, these companies produced
635,00^. tons of nitrogenous fertilizer and 76,800 tons of Dhosphatic
Certi'izer, reflecting a capacity utilization of 87% and 83% respectively.
lae existing nitrogenous fertilizer caoacity is, however,  expected to czmit
down to anout 363,000 tons, following the phasing out of old, uneconomic



ammonia plants. As for phosphatic fertilizer, the capacity is expected to go
up to 176,000 tons as a result of the expansion already under way.
1.18      Nitrogenous fertilizer consumption in 1981182 reached 693,30C' tons,
and phosphatic fertilizer, 164,600 tons, while consumption of potash was
stationary at around 9,000 tons as most crops do not require additional potash
in Egyptian soils. Between 1970/71 and 1981/82, nitrogenous fertilizer
consumption grew at an annual rate of 6.2%, while phosphatic fertilizer
consumption grew (from a low base) at a higher rate of 13.7% as the
availability of the Nile silt, a rich source of phosphorous, has declined
sharply with the construction of the Aswan High Dam.  Domestic production of
fertilizers, together with imports, adequately meets current fertilizer
requirements.
1.19      Demand for fertilizer is expected to increase considerably in the
next two decades. To meet the deficit in fertilizer production, the
Government proposes to expand production at Suez after rationalizing the
existing facilities there. The Government has also decided to carry out a
feasibility study on the restructuring of the Kima Fertilizer Complex with a
view to phasing out uneconomic units.
1.20      The ex-factory and retail fertilizer prices are determined by the
Government.  The ex-factory prices continue to be low, and the companies snow
losses even under efficient operation. The Government covers these losses and
helps meet the annual investment needs of the companies from the budget
allocations.  Despite the increases in retail fertilizer prices in recent
years, the subsidy element is still high, ranging between 27% and 40% on urea
and CAN respectively, the two leading fertilizers used in Egypt. The policy
on the subsidy issue is linked with the production and price policies for
agriculture products (para. 1.10).
(-i) Seeds
1.21      Egypt's seed industry has a structure and a background which is more
substantial and longer standing than in most developing countries. It has a
legislative framework which is appropriate and adequate for the needs of
effective seed control. There is also a solid structure for research and
plant breeding and field and laboratory testing of seed, and an organization
exists with a plant to process seed. Nevertheless, the seed industry is not
functioning effectively, because testing is ineffective, laboratories are
poorly managed, equipment is outdated, and operating Eunds are inadecuate.
Processing plants are old, in poor repair and require replacement. While the
required quantities of seed may be reaching farmers, quality for the most part
is substandard for germination, purity and other control standards.
1.22      At present, the seed industry -s controlled in MOA by the Central
Administration for Seed (CAS) headed by an Under Secretary, assisted by
technical directors. Seed testing is carried out in three laboratories; at
Giza, Tanta and Minya.  Although the equipment is outdated or inoperative,
the quality of work is satisfactory within the limitations impcsed by such
equipment and the need for additional staff training. Seed processing is



- 8 -
carried out in 11 locations with seed cleaning units of varying capacities.
Once a variety is increased beyond the "basic" seed stage, it is the
responsibility of CAS to multiply it further on governoment lands or tunder
contract on farmers' fields. In some instances, as with maize and som'e
vegetables, initial seed multiplication is handed over to the national seed
companies which carry out production of "certified seed." Standards of field
inspection, roguing and general supervision of seed produced under CAS (or
under supervision of the companies) are unsatisfactory. Thus, deficiency irn
laboratory testing and processing results in seed of poor quality. MOA is
awate of these shortcomings and is making effcrts to reorganize CAS, replace
outdated processing plants, and reequip obsolete laboratories (para. 3.19).
C. Farm Mechanization
Current Status of Mechanization
1.23      The mechanization of Egyptian agriculture, begun early in this
century, has now reached a point where 90% or more of the farmers use
machinery to carry out at least some of their work. At this time, the use of
mechanized power is widespread for four major operations--primary tillage,
threshing, water lifting and transport (first stage or primary
mechanization). The national tractor stock has almost quadrupled from a level
of 13,000 in the early 1960s to about 48,000 in 1982. Other operations such
as planting, Fertilizing, cultivating, harvestinAg, etc., (secondary stage
mechanizat_nn), however, are mechanized to a much lower, almost negligible,
degree; for instance, the proportion of farmers using harvesting machinery
does not exceed 1% (para. 3.09).
1.24      The pattern of custom hire operations is now well established and
seems likely to continue to be the basis for progressive mechanization of
Egypt's smallhoidings. A survey of farmers and machinery owners completed by
the USAID-sup?orted Agricultural Mechanization Project in June 1982 found that
54% of tractor owTners and 25% of pump owners provide custom services. Whereas
90% of the farmers used tractors for plowing, fewer than 2% owned tractors,
implying a widespread reliance on custom hire.
1.25      Assembly and manufacture of tractors is undertaken in Egypt
exclusively by N-ASCO, a pu-blic sector company. The company assembled a total
of about 3,200 tractors in 1982/83.  Other public sector companies manufacture
diesel engines for trucks, agricultural pumps, threshers and a range of
implements suca as c.,isel plows, scrapers and certain other implements.
Several well-established private sector firms also manufacture and assemble
machinery that is essentially identical to that produced by the public sector
companies. Moreover, nearly every large village has one or more workshops
which repair and make simple agricultural equipment such as sagias (water
wheels), drum threshers (tractor or engine Dowered) and simple chisel plows.
1.26      Agricultural machinery imports have increased dramatically since
1973 when the pciicy of relaxation of import control was initiated; however,
many restrictions remain (para. 1.29). Between 1974 and 1981, the total
annual value of agricult-ural machinery imports in constant 1975 ter-ms grew



- 9 -
from LE 1 million to LE 25 million,the number of tractors imported annually
from fewer than 1,000 to nearly 12,000, and the number of other imported
agricultural machine, (implements, self-propelled units, etc.) from fewer than
300 units (a value of LE 200,000) in 1974 to over 15,600 units (a value of
LE 8.2 million) in 1981. Tne disaggregated data on tractor imports for the
1970-83 period show the predominance of tractors in the 60 to 70 hp range,
particularly with regard to tractors assembled in Egypt.
1.27      The laws regulating importation of farm machinery and equipment
limit the ma-ximum dealer markup to 30%, which, in principle, is applicable to
the cif price at the official exchange rate, after certain in-country charges
(such as customs) have been added.  Dealers offer a discount to their
subdealers to maintain a constant price to the farmers, but subdealer markups
are much less regulated. By law, spares can be marked up 45%, but the actual
markup depends on the rate of turnover and demand.
1.28      All dealers import spares for their equipment, and importers of
tractors and harvesting equipment, in particular, are required to import
spares equal to 20% of the value of the item imported.  Further spare parts
are imported at the discretion o'f the dealer and subject to the availability
of foreign exchange. Spare parts availability for the locally assembled
tractors is generally considered to be satisfactory.
Regulation
1.29      At the present time, a number of offices within MOA are actively
involved in regulating the promotion and importation of farm machinery such as
the Under Secreta iat for Engineering Affairs and the Directorate for
Agricultural Mechanizatior Projects.  In addition, there are various
comm-ttees and agencies regulating the industry, foreign investment ard
imports, which include the following: (a)"Tarsheed," the Import
Rationalization Comittee, which regulates the import of items similar to
zhose produced in Egypt; (b) the Investment Authority, which must approve
joint ventures involving expatriate firms or financing; and (c) the Central
Bank, which must approve all letters of credit or other foreign exchange
transactions.
1.30      Tmports of agricultural machinery, until recently, were financed by
fcreign exchange obtained at widely different rates, which gave public sector
importers an unfair competitive edge over private companies. The foreign
exchange market was divided into three submarkets--the Central Bank pool (with
an exchange rate of LE 0.70 = US$1), the commercial bank pool (with an
of.icial rate of LE 0.83 = US$1), and the free market (with a rate as of
December 1984 of about LE 1.35 = US$l). On January 5, 1985, the authorities
took steps to try to unify the commercial bank pool and the free market.  A
committee was created to determine the premium rate for commercial banks in a
ZIexible manner. The buying and selling rates were initially set at LE 1.245
and __ 1.2575 per US dollar, respectively, and have since remained at those
levels.  These higher rates, applied to farm machinery imports, would
contribute to a more realistic costing and minimize distortions.



- 10 -
1.31      Customs regulations are not a major problem for dealers as the
customs rules per se are simple and well known, rates of customs duty for
agricultural machinery are low, and delays are not usually onerous. On the
other hand, the approval procedure in Tarsheed is a serious constraint and
extremely time consuming, accounting in some cases for extensive delays of up
to six months, apart from randomness, unpredictability and constant change in
the regulations administered by this committee. The delays in this and
related government committees involve a hidden additional cost for the dealers
in the form of increased price and foreign exchange risks. Exporters are not
always willing to renew, at the original prices, pro forma invoices that have
lapsed due to excessive delays. The proposed project aims at the
simplification of import procedures to avoid costly delays and encourage
competition.
D. Agricultural Credit
1.32      Specialized banks in Egypt, lending in the field of agriculture and
agroindustries, consist of 17 governorate Banks for Development and
Agricultural Credit (BDACs) supervised by Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) in Cairo, the Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
and the newly established National Bank for Development (NBD). While the
BDACs finance production and investment credit needs of the agricultural
cooperatives, DIB finances the fixed and working capital requirements of
private and state-owned agroindustrial enterprises; its loans may be in local
or foreign currency and have terms of up to 15 years.
1.33      The PBDAC group, which at present encompasses 17 BDACs and an
extensive network of about 5,000 village banks and agencies, is the main
source of agricultural credit, especially for medium- and long-term purposes,
with an outstanding portfolio at the end of 1982/83 exceeding LE 600
million. 1/  Although the commercial banks provided LE 234 million to
agriculture, the bulk of this was in short-term funds for commercial
operations.  Lending by other financial institutions to agricultural sector
reached only LE 16 million or less than 2% of their total portfolio.
1.34      At the national level, PBDAC is responsible for overall credit
planning, raising the necessary funds, and implementing its programs through
BDACs and, in addition, for processing all production inputs, (through
importation or from local production), and planning, in conjunction with MOA,
their distribution for cash or on credit. In fact, the PBDAC group handles
nearly as much of input supply and marketing activities as of banking.
1.35      The PBDAC group offers a wide range of credit facilities.
Short-term loans, with a maximum maturity of 14 months, are extended to
farmers fcr the purchase of inputs and for the payment of hired labor; such
credit is provided in kind or in a combination of cash and kind in accordance
with the cropping Pattern and quantities of inputs allowed by MOA. Loan
amounts are calculated in accordance with detailed budgets of the agricultural
1/ PBDAC's consolidated financial statements are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.



- 11 -
operations for each crop, livestock variety or breed. Short-term loans are
granted only to farmers who are either owner-operators or tenants, and who
hold a passbook registered with the government agricultural cooperative and
containing information on the -ultivated area, cropping pattern and quantity
of inputs. Medium- and long-term loans are granted for capital investments,
such as building, equipment, machinery and operating capital.
1.36      Short-term loans constitute the bulk of loans granted, but the share
of longer-term loans has soared from 8.3% of loans and advances granted in
1979 to 26% in 1983. Crop production and livestock and poultry loans are the
predominant categories in short-term lending operations, accounting for 63%
and 34%, respectively, in 1983. The major share of longer-term lending has
been consistently for capital investments, livestock and poultry absorbing 61%
and mechanization 25% of of the total of such loans in 1983. The upward trend
in this type of lending has been made possible through additional long-term
funds provided by government and foreign financing institutions, notably IDA
and USAID.
1.37      Due to alleged government influence and loose regulations and
control, the loan recovery performance in the 1960s and early 1970s was
dismal. However, at the time of reorganization of the PBDAC group, new rigid
security requirements and stricter repayment regulations were instituted. The
penalty interest of 2% over the normal interest rate is charged on overdue
loans. Recovery rates of loan installments and interest falling due have
since steadily improved, reaching over 96% in 1982 and 1983. lu 1982/83,
overdue principal of more than two years amounted to only LE 431,000, while
total overdue interest was LE 450,000, compared to an average outstanding
portfolio during the year of about LE 560 million. Reserves for bad debts at
LE 19 million are adequate.
1.38      To finance the significant increase in its operations, PBDAC has
succeeded in mobilizing domestic resources and increasing its share of
deposits on current and savings accounts from LE 124 million in 1979/80 to
LE 376 million in 1982/83, representing approximately 30% to 35% of net assets
in each year. The other main source of finance is borrowing fro.n commercial
banks, which rose steadily from LE 193 million in 1979/80 to LE 454 million in
1981/82 but declined to LE 390 million in 1982/83 due, on the one hand, to
some stagnation of operations, and on the other, to PBDAC's increasing access
to other sources of finance. Tne remaining 25% to 30% of PBDAC's net assets
came from its own capital and surplus.
1.39      Interest Rates.  The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) regulates interest
rates for deposits and loans in local currency for all financial
institutions. In the face of rising international interest rates, the rates
on local currency loans were raised in January 1981 from 12-14% to 13-15% with
a simultaneous increase in the maximum rates on term deposits from 10.5% to
11.5%. In July 1982, further adjustments were made, and the new rates were
stipulated as follows: for commercial loans a minimum of 16% (no maximum);
for industry a minimum of 11% and a maximum of 13%; for services from 13% to
15%; and for agriculture, a maximum of 13%.  Maximum rates for term deposits
were raised to 13%. CBE's discount rate was also raised from 12% to 13% per
annum.



- 12 -
1.40      PBDAC's terms and conditions for loans for different purposes are
given in Schedule 2. Most agricultural loans enjoy concessional interest
rates. PBDAC charges 8% for machinery loans; 5% to 6% for land reclamation
loans and 3.5% to 4.5% for short-term production loans. The difference
between the above rates and 13%, which has been determined by CBE to be the
maximum rate chargeable on agricultural loans. is paid by the Government to
PBDAC to protect its financial integrity as a banking institution. Under the
proposed project, the interest rate on medium-term agricultural machinery
loans would be raised to 13% per arnum (paras. 3.15 and 4.04).
E. Cooperatives
1.41      Agricultural cooperatives in Egypt fall into three main categories:
(i) agrarian reform cooperatives covering lands broken up into smallholdings
since 1952 (750 with a mnembership of about 400,000); (ii) the new lands
cooperatives covering land which has been recently irrigated and distributed
to settlers (170 with, a membership of 70,000); and (iii) old or traditional
land cooperatives covering other agricultural land (4,000 primary societies
representing almost 3 million members). The multipurpose agricultural
cooperative structure was, until 1977, broadly similar among all the
three types with district and state level cooperatives providing services to
the village level societies. In addition, there are specialized primary
cooperatives dealing in such products as fruit and vegetables, and livestock.
1.42      in 1976, old land cooperatives received a severe setback when all
their functions relating to farm input supply and marketing of major crops
were transferred to the PBDAC group as a result of the alleged inefficiency of
cooperatives. Through active lobbying and i-provement of their operational
efficiency in the limited sohere left to them, the cooperatives have attempted
to reestablish themselves. The niew coooern-Live law (effective in early 1983)
has allowed them to reenter the field of marketing of government controlled
crops and, in general, to provide the important services needed by farmers on
the one hand and consumers on the other. Following on these new
opportunities, cooperatives have already started marketing of cotton, maize,
onions, garlic and rice in 12 gcvernorates and handle the bulk of these crops
in five governorates. mne potato trade is largely in their hands as is a
significant part of fruit and vegetable marketing.
L.43      The newest additicn to this sector is the category of mechanized
farming cooperatives. During 1982183, altogether 52 mechanized farming
cooperatives were established at the primary level. Most of them are in
Beheira Goverrnorate where a secondary level cooperative has also been
established to provide guidance and centralized services. in March 1984, the
national apex organization for mechanized farming cooperatives was established
to promote the operations of these societies, advise them, and provide
wholesale services.
F. Sector Strategv and Bank involvement
Agricultural DeveloDment Strategy
1.44      The country's strategy for agricultural development has to respond
to the increasing demacd for agricultural products resulting from population



- 13 -
growth and rising incomes, taking into account the characteristics of the
sector as described in the foregoing sections. On the supply side,
notwithstanding the high productivity levels already reached, there is proven
potential for further yield increases in view of the optimal climatic
conditions, reliable availability of high-quality irrigation water, and the
deep, rich, alluvial soils characteristic of the Nile River and Delta. On the
other hand, there are significant constraints to growth, in terms of the
availability of physical resources and the quality of the supporting
agricultural services. Firstly, arable land is limited, and being
increasingly lost to nonagricultural use, while reclamation of new lands has
failed to add significantly to the productive base. Secondly, inadequate
drainage, combined witT, perennial irrigation, has resulted in waterlogging and
soil salinity, thus f,._-her depleting the land resources.  Poor water
management exacerbates Lte (rainage problem, and increases the uncertainty
about the future land-water balance, especially as regards new land
development. Thirdly, and more recently, agriculture labor shortages are
being experienced, especially during peak seasons, mainly because of out
migration and urbanization. Fourthly, extension, research and marketing
services need to be strengthened in terms of quality, staffing and allocated
financial resources. Fifthly, the price and production policies, though
improving in terms of liberalization, provide inadequzate, and frequently
distorted, incentives to producers. Lastly, many practical problems of lack
of coordination result from the division of responsibility for the sector
among three ministries.
1.45      The basic aim of national strategy should be to maximize returns
from the existing arable lands and the "old new lands" in terms of yield
increases, intensive cropping, and shifts towards higher value crops. A major
element of this effort is to accelerate the pace of the drainage program and
improve its efficiency through better maintenance and construction standards,
site specific designs and priority to problem areas.  Complementary to this is
the need to raise the efficiency of the irrigation system through measures
such as better maintenance (including weed control and dredging of canals).
the rehabilitation of pumping stations, better water management and irrigation
system modernization. For direct aid to production, the strategy calls for
vigorous ection to expand and improve the basic agriculturai services, mainly
in the areas of research, extension, selective mechanization and marketing.
Alongside these efforts to increase production on existing Lands, effective
steps should be taken to check the steady loss of agricultural land through
urbanization. As for reclamation of new land, the disappointirg results of
past efforts and considerations relating to soil conditions and the cost and
availability of water suggest that most such projects outside the Nile Valley
may not be viable. Technical feasibility and economic justification should,
therefore, be carefully evaluated before any new projec. is unde-taken, with
due consideration, in particular, for the demand for water, from the existing
arable lands which have been found, in general, to be much nore productive.
There is also a need to review government intervention in the sector which has
tended to depress incentives and distorL resource allocation. However, crop
area controls are not be ng strictly enforced of late, some producer prices
have been gradually increased, and the farmers are, at this time, perhaps more
handicapped by other constraints such as the weaknesses in public agricultural
services.  Nevertheless, further liberalization of production/price policies



- 14 -
would be a logical element of the ongoing macro-economic adjustment process
involving increasing reliance on the role of the private sector and
responsiveness to market forces. Lastly, effective implementation of any
sectoral strategy would require an institutional arrangement for improved
coordination among the three agricultural ministries.
1.46      The Egyptian authorities have been actively engaged in the last few
years in formulating a national agricultural strategy. This is reflected in
two reports issued by them--one by a national team headed by the present
Minister for Agriculture and tne other representing a colli.orative effort by
the Ministry and the USAID assisted by several US experts. Whilst most of the
strategy issues summarized above are fully reflected in these reports, the
allocations in the current five year plan do not reflect the same priorities.
The gross allocation to the sector shows an increase (from 89 to 13%) in the
proportion of total investment provided to agriculture as compared to the late
1970s. However, more than half of this amount is for new lands
development--an activity which directly addresses the primary constraint of
land scarcity, but which has been markedly unsuccessful in the past. Of the
residual, drainage is, appropriately, the largest single item (about 30%).
Bank Group staff has also carried out a considerable amount of sector work on
Egyptian agriculture during the last few years and carried on a policy
dialogue with the authorities from time to time.
Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.47      Past Bank Group operations in the sector have sought to address
important major elements of the development strategy. As a major contribution
towards the prevention of a decline in land productivity resulting from rising
water tables and salinity, a series of four drainage projects 1/ were
financed, covering 2.8 million feddan of irrigated area. Only one of these
projects has been completed. 2/ Implementation of these drainage projects has
been improving steadily, with parallel progress in strengthening the Egyptian
Drainage Authority. Further progress, in related institution-building, is
expected under the proposed Fifth Drainage Project.  The ongoing Irrigation
and Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2270-ECT) aims at preventing
crop losses due to drainage/irrigation pump failure and to strengthen the
institution responsible for pumping stations. That project is considered to be
a first step in a nationwide program for rehabilitating the country's
irrigation systems. Government has thus expressed interest in a follow-up
operation. The Bank has also endeavored to focus attention on the important
problem of adequate maintenance of drainage and irrigation, and, as a result,
the Government is now engaged in the preparation of a detailed plan, which is
proposed to be partly financed by a future Bank operation. Another activity
of the Bank in this area of water resources, has been to serve as the
executing agency for a UNDP financed project for drawing up a master plan for
1/  Credit 181-EGT (1970), Credit 393-EGT (1973), Credit 637/Loan 1285-EGT
(1976) and Credit 719/Loans 1439-1440-EGT (1977).                          ;
2/  The PCR was issued July 16, 1981.  (The economic rate of return of thei
first drainage project, financed by IDA (Credit 181-EGT), was shown to
exceed 25%.)



- 15 -
water development and use, which would provide Government with a basis for
various water allocation and priority decisions. The only land reclamation
operation financed by the Bank Group up to now is the New Lands Development
Project--West Nubariya (Credit 1083-ECT). This project, which became
effective in October 1981, involves the reclamation of 24,000 feddan desert
land and settlement of 4,000 smallholders with provision of infrastructure,
social services and production and administration facilities. After a slow
start, early implementation actions are now in progress, including staffing,
site supervision of construction, etc.
1.48      The Bank Group has done some project identification work on
-ricultural research and extension although none of the ongoing
IDA/Bank-financed projects is exclusively devoted to this subsector.
Nevertheless, some of the Bank Group operations have incorporated elements of
direct production support, and in two IFAD Projects, 1/ for which the Bank
acts as the supervisory agency, improvement of extension services has received
major attention. The IDA-financed first Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 830-EGT) sought, as a pilot project, to raise productivity in two
governorates, by improving the standard of farm mechanization and
strengthening agricultural credit, cooperatives and extension services.
Despite initial difficulties, progress has been made with the project, leading
to the proposed second project. The Fruit and Vegetables Project
(Loan 1276-EGT) includes a variety of components, viz., a seed farm,
construction of the West Nubariya Drain, and credit to fruit and vegetable
processors and exporters.  By and large, this project has been satisfactorily
completed, except for the development of the seed farm.
1.49      The Agroindustries Projects (Credit 988-EGT and Loan 2243-EGT)
finance the credit requirements of small and medium-size agroindustries
(including livestock enterprises). While agricultural processing has received
support from these two projects (the first of which is advanced in
implementation) and from the Fruit and Vegetables Project, the entire
subsector of marketing, processing and storage is the subject of a study which
is being financed under Loan 2243-EGT and could provide the basis for a
broader operation. Given the importance of fish as a source of animal protein
and the foreign exchange spent on fish now being imported, fisheries
development is a goal of national policy. The Fish Farming Development
Project (Credit 1lll-EGT), the only Bank-financed operation in this subsector,
provides for establishing inland fish farm facilities (including production
ponds to be operated by individual farmers) on an area of over 3,000 feddan.
The project has suffered delays because of management and technical problems,
but efforts are now in progress to solve them and accelerate implementation.
Mention should also be made of the Technica'l Assistance Project
(Credit 1162-EGT), designed to help government develop an institutional
capacity to unidertake planning, feasibility and engineering studies for
agricultural projects; as a result, suitably equipped project preparation
units have now been established in the Ministries of Irrigation and Land
Reclamation.
3J Fayoum and Minya Agricultural Development Projects.



- 16 -
1.50      Several of these projects have suffered in varying degrees from
start-up delays, ineffective management, technical problems, and lack of an
adequate number of experienced staff. However, as a result of intensive and
continuous follow-up by Bank staff, several policy decisions and concrete
actions have been taken, with an impact extending beyond the particular
projects in terms of technical assistance, staff training and institution
building.
II. PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The proposed project would cover the area of the seven rice growing
governorates of the Nile Delta 1/, which has been chosen because of its
homogeneity as a cereal growing area and because the level of mechanization in
this area is expected to be higher than in the rest of the country.
Administratively, these seven governorates are divided into 67 districts. The
total arable land of the project area, which is fully irrigated, is estimated
at about 3.2 million feddan, and the total cultivated area of summer, winter
and Nili crops, based on an annual cropping intensity of 1.9 (i90%), is
estimated at about 5.6 million feddan. The great majority of the farms in the
area are very small. On average, the size of about 95% of all farms is only
0.9 feddan of arable land, representing 1.7 feddan of cultivated land.  The
average area under fruit crops and sugarcane on most farms is very small, and
estimated at only about 0.1 feddan or less. The following tables show the
particulars of the distribution of land ownership, and the arable land area
and the cropping intensity:
Distribution of Land Ownerships in Egypt /1
Bracket (feddan)       Land Owners     Area Owned       Land Owners    Area Owned
--('000)---    ('000 feddan)    ----(%)----    ----(%)---
Less than 5               3,223            2,834             95.0            51.3
5 to 10                      93              609              2.7            11.0
10 to 20                     44              569              l3             10.3
20 to 50                     23              663              0.7            12.0
50 to 100                     7              482              0.2             8.7
Over 100 /                    1              373              0.1             6.7
Total                   3,391            5,530            100             100
/i  State lands, desert prairie and land under distribution are not included.
/2 Includes organizations, companies and individuals.
Source: CAPMAS, Statistical Yearbook, 1982.
1/  Governorates:  Beheira, Gharbiya, Kafr-el-Sheikh, Dakahliya, Damietta,
Sharkiya and Fayoum.



- 17 -
Cu  i vaLe Lam _
Cropping    Summer.       Fruit
Rice Growing               Intensity   Winter &      Creps &
NCS  Governorates    rable Land  (rounded)  Nili Crops La  SuTiralne    Tctal
-(feddan)---edd-----------------
1   Beheira           680,000      1.9      1.161,000      69.000    1.230.000
2   Gharbiya          412.500      1.8       695,30C       26,200     721,500
3   Kafr el Sheikh    420,100      2.0       826,200        7.000     833.200
4   Dakahliya         609,300      1.8      1,063.600      18,300    1,082,100
5   Damietta          102.900      1.8       177.700        4,200      181,900
6   Sharkiya          612.800      2.0      1.121.800      51.900    1.i73.700
7   Fayoum            315_000      1.H       515  0        2o,  _0   __j47__00
Total Rice Growing
Governorates         3,152,600      1.9     5.561.700      205.000    5,766.700
Total Egypt          5.655,000      1.9     10.639,000     620.000   11,259.000
Rice Growing
Governorates AS
Percentage of
Total                      56       1.9            52          33           51
Ea Arable land less fruit crops and sugarcane times cropping intensity Factar.
Sourc: MOA.
Climate
2.02       General.  The entire country lies in the temperate zcne between 220
and 320 north latitude. It is part of the vast desert belt which extends in
North Africa from the AtlaLLtic Coast east-ward through Saudi Arabia. The
country as a whole is dry and arid with subtropical temperatures prevailing
throughout the land. The Nile, flowing from the southern region to the
Mediterranean Sea, forms the ribbon of life for the country. People and crops
are confined to the eastern and western side of this strip of water. The Nile
below Cairo travels on a northwesterly course and, at approximately 20 km
downstream, divides into two branches: the Rosetta Branch flows westward for
about 239 km and the Damietta Branch eastward for about 945 km before each
empties into the sea. Those areas west of the Rosetta Branch are in West
Delta, those east of the Damietta Branch are in East Delta, and the region
between the two branches is the Central Delta. The project site is located in
the East, Central and West Delta.
2.03       Temperatures and Rainfall.  Ir. the cold winter period, the monthly
maxirmum temperatures range from about 26C in November to 20C in February and
the monthly minimum temperatures range from about 12C in November to a 3ow of
65C in January and February. During the summer period, May through September,
the average monthly temperature seldom rises above 35C or falls below 14C.
The annual rainfall is about 190 mm at the coast (Alexandria), decreasing
rapidly towards the south (Tanta) about 46 mm, and Cairo about 26 mm.  Most of
the rain occurs in the winter, November to March; but its impact is negligible



- 18 -
nights favors plant growth when moisture in deficit or excess is not a
limiting factor. Crops such as potatoes, cabbage. wheat and beans thrive itl
the winter, while the hot summer period is favorable for cotton and rice, the
major export crops, and naize. The climate also promotes the growth
throughout the year of perennial and annual temperate and semitropical crops
such as oranges, grapes, bananas, nmangos and tomatoes.
2.04      Topography and Soils.  The topography of the area is flat with a
gentle slope from Cairo towards the seai.  rhe soils are primarily heavy
deltaic alluvium and somewhat lighter in the southern part of the area. When
supplied with irrigation water, anld drainage is satisfactory, scils in the
area provide excellent conditions for the production of all crops, but
particularly wheat, cotton, rice, corn, v'egetables, broadbeans, Egyptian
clover (berseem) and fruits.
Agricultural Production
2.05      The cropping patterns are well established throughout the area with
cotton, rice, wheat, maize, beans and berseem being the major crops. Cotton
controls the cropping pattern, and its acreage is determined by a decree
issued each year by MOA.  Rice production is also controlled by MOA and,
because of its water requirement (amouTit and frequency), is confined to the
northern portion of the delta. Cotton is usually grown on the same land every
third year and is preceded by a short crop of berseem. Wheat or clover
usually follows cotton in the winter. In the southern parts of the area, corn
follows wheat and clover in the summer, and in the northern regions, rice
and/or corn are the summer crops. In spite of the introduction of
high-yielding strains of cotton, rice, wheat and maize, the increase in
fertilizer application, together with improved disease and insect control and
expansion of the support services, the yields of rice, wheat and maize have
remained constant on average since 1965. The major reason for this situation
is the gradual deterioration of arable land due to water logging and
salinity. The Second Nile Delta Drainage Project (Loans 1439 and 1440-EGT,
and Credit 719-EGT), which was approved in 1977, was aimed at preventing
further deterioration and restoring full productivity in six governorates of
the Nile Delta through construction ot pumping stations and remodeling of the
surface drains and installation of subsurface drains. Although subsurface
drainage is about three years behind schedule, it is expected that, at
completion, which is now scheduled 'or December 31, 1985. the main objective
of the project will be achieved.
.11. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
3.01      The environmental setting for Egyptian agriculture is based on
irrigation of the total arable Land area of about 5.9 million feddan that is
capable of producing crops throughout the year.  Though the average production
per unit of area in Egypt is already among the highest in. the world, there is



- 19 -
potential to increase productivity by at least 50%, througik the introduction
of improved technological packages which have already been proven in field
trials (para. 1.16). IL is important, for this purpose, to develop, ani
eff:ctive techniical inform.ation transfer capability and the means to overcome
r:ie shortage of adult m.ale labor, through mechanization of soIIIe field
operations.
3.02      MOA has becn actively engaged, for the last few years, in efforts to
promote increased agricultural productivity through the provision of needed
farm inpuLs and extension, with special emphasis on selective mechanization as
part of the recommended technological packages.  It was initially proposed to
organize a large network nf government farm mechanization centers that would
provide the services required by farmers through staff operating in parallel
with the regular agricul Lural extension machinery, anid were not expected to
charge farmers for custom serviices rendered by them.  Thlese teatures were
modified during the preparation phase of the proposed project which has now
been so formulatted as Lo provide for active private sector participation.
Simplificationi of procedures For farm mwachiniery imports, and provisioni of
access to foreign exchange at a uniform cost for all such importers, are major
institutional features of the project (para 1.30). These should have a
significant impact in terns of promoting the activities of private malchillery
dealers and custom hire operators. The project aims to help in providing the
foreign exchange required by importers of farm machinery against cash payments
by them.  The local currency proceeds thus generated would be used for
provision of credit to the Drivate sector, mainly farmers and custom operator-s
of farm machinery. Thle number and function's of the government mechaniizatioi
centers would be limited to the minimum necessary, with provision for review
and evaluation at different stag2s.  While the centers would be actively
engaged in organizing demonstrations through field days in the villages, they
would also carry out demonstrations on farmners' fields, for which they wotuld
be required to charge a fee covering the cost and a profit margin
(para. 3.35).  Farmri mechanization would be placed in its appropriate coniitexL
as one elenment of a package of inputs and farming techniques, and the
promoLional activity under the project would be integrated with the
agricultural extension system.
3.03      As of June 1984, MOA had established ten Mechanized Farming Center-s
(MFC) and two Mechanizcd Farming and Testing Centers (.MFTC), of which se-veln
MFCs (para. 3.34) anl onr  MIFTC (para. 3.30) were operatlve.  MiA has behtnl  t ,
utilize the existing services to supply intensified agricultural exLension ;:id
to ensure the availability of the needed inputs.  The project is designed to
provide a balanced plan of operations ir. the project area emphalsizing th  r:l.-
of the pri-vate sector in promoting mechanization.  Uniform treatmeint ot al
machinery importers would be ensured through interniational advertisinLg
(para. 3.10), simplification of procurement procecures (para. 3.12), cquai
access to testing facilities (para. 3.30), anid ratior-alizing the pricing oi
foreign exchange for machinery imports (para. 3. 3) and raising interest rat s
on medium-term agricultural machinery loans (para. 3.15).  T:he project would
ensure the utilization and strer,gthening of existing e:xtension services rath-r
than the establishment cf a separate organization (para. 3.23).  Tre project
would also provide for some immediate assistance to the seed industry, and for



- 20 -
a comprehensive national seed study which would provide the basis for a
national seed policy (para. 3.22). The project concept embodies major changes
in the original proposals of the Egyptian authorities. These changes,
introduced through discussion between the Bank and the Government, have helped
improve the economic justification of the mechanization program and bring it
in line with the overall policy orientation which the Bank has been seeking to
promote.
B. General Description
3.04      The project would support the first phase of the Government's
national program to develop and introduce integrated farming packages over a
four-year peric-A in the seven rice growing governorates which represent about
50Z of the cultivated area of the country. To achieve this objective, the
project would make available to farmers, through the existing extension
service, packages of practices already tested and demonstrated in some areas.
To ensure their timely application, the project would offer the farmer the
option to mechanize certain farming operations by making farm machinery
readily available for purchase through a network of private machinery dealers
or, alternatively, on hire from private operators and specialized
cooperatives. Implementation of the project would require improved
agricultural services, particularly in the fields of research and extension
and introduction cf mechanized operations, and a machinery service and repair
network involving private individuals and cooperati-zes. Thus the project aims
at supporting long-term institutional development of a balanced agricultural
improvement program.
3.05      The project would include the following:
(i) Provision of incremental farm inputs required by the newly
introduced technological packages;
(ii)  provision of farm machinery to farmers and custom hire
operators, with a credit facility from PBDAC if needed;
(iii)  establishment of about 35 new rural workshops and expansion
of some existing facilities to provide machinery servicing,
revairs and spare parts;
(iv)  installation of a modern seed cleaning plant to replace
worn-out machinery, refurbishing two seed laboratories, and
conducting a study of the national seed industry;
(v) training of extension staff of MOA and farmers in advanced
farming techniques, of machine operators and maintenance
personnel in operation of farm machinery and its
maintenance, and of managers and officials of the BDAC
system in farm credit operations;
(vi)  establishment of one Mechanized Forming and Testing Center
(MFTC) in each governorate, under the supervisio.i of the



- 21 -
existing Principal Testing Center (PTC) at Sakha in the
Delta, for testing of agricultural machinery and
demonstration of advanced farm operations mainly through
rield days (two MFTCs already established);
(vii)  setting up of small satellites for each IFTC (an average of
nine in each Governorate) to be known as Mechanized Farming
Centers (MFCs). These small centers would serve as
demonstration, training and extension centers for machinery
that has been found through tests at the PTC or MFTCs to be
technically suitable and financially viable; and
(viii)  Technical assistance to support the operations and to
continue the testing and demonstration of technical packages
as well as to support institution building in agricultural
credit.
3.06      Overall project implementation would be the responsibility of an
Under Secretary in MOA assigned 'or this purpose by the Minister.  The Under
Secretary would have the responsibility af coordinating the activities Of all
institutions included under the project. Monitoring of project activities
with regard to the operations of 21FCs, the testing of machinery, and the
demonstration and extension activities would be concentrated in the Under
Secretary's office. P3DAC would be responsible for the provision of credit in
the project area to fairmers and operators for farm machinery and spare parts,
and for workshop machinery and equipment.
C. Detailed Features
i)  Incremental -arm InDuts
3.07      The project zoncept is based on the introduction of integrated
farming packrages.  In addition to the  application of farm inputs, ar.
important element of the packages would relate to the mechanization of certain
farming operations, particularly during the two seasonal peak periods which
occur irn May/July and September/November, to overcome the shortage of labor
and to ensure timelv planting and harvesting. As yields of the main field
crops in Egypt are particularly sensitive to the date of planting, the length
of time between harvesti g of one crop and planting of the next has a major
impact on farm productivity. The farm packages would apply to all farmers in
the project area, irrespective of the extent to which farmers utilize
machinery. Funds are Drovided under the project to meet the credit needs of
farmers for the purchase of incremental agricultural chemicals. These
chemicals would be procured bv PBDAC, which has been engaged in input
distribution with a large and countrywide network of centers (para. 3.46).
3.08      There is considerable potential for increasing crop yields,
especially from lands already under cultivation. Thorough and extensive trial
results on improving productivity have been carried out on cereals by the
Egypt Major Cereals improvement Project (EMCIP) and on rice by the Rice
Research and Training Project cf the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with USAID



- 22 -
support. The approach has been to adapt to Egyptian conditions simple
technological pac'-ages consisting of improved use of inputs and
internationally tested cultural practices, by testing them through
demonstrations involving large numbers of farmers.  The resujlts indicate
average vield increases of 81% for rice, 65% for wheat, 74% for maize and t3%
for sorghum, maxfimum yields being much higher. This is evidence of the
potential which can be realized through effective extension and other
supporting services- 1/
(ii) Farm Mlachinerv
3.09      The project would provide the foreign exchange needed by the private
sector for the import of farm machinery for secondary mechanization and for
the replacement of old tractors. Primary mechanization, i.e., for primary
cultivation, threshing, pumping and transport, has already reached a high
level of acceptance (para. 1.23), but "secondary mechanization," i.e., for
planting, fertilizing, crop cultivation, spraying and harvesting, is yet to
gain ground. There are, at present, about 15 farm machine2ry dealerships of
varyivn sizes established and operating throughout the country. However, the
Government would establish a list of approved dealers who would qualify under
the project by satisfying the following criteria and conditions:  (i) that the
dealer is the authorized representative of a farm machinery manufacturer or
his distri-butor; (ii) that the dealer, together with his agents, would operate
a network of repair and maintenance facilities with service stations and
traired staff in the project area where they sell their machinery; (iii) that
the dealer and his agents would provide after-sales service provided for under
the manufacturer's warranty; and (iv) that the dealer would maintain an
adequate siLock of spare parts determined on the basis of estimated demand for
tast and slow moving spares. Assurances were obtained that these criteria
would apply for qualifying approved machinery dealers and that in approving
dealers MOA would ensure that the entire project area is covered by an
adequate network of sale, repair and maintenance facilities.
3.10      Sufficient notice would be given internationally for those
manufacturers who wish to establish dealershiDs in Egypt or those who wish to
be included on the dealers' list (para. 3.44). In order to ensure that
repairs and service facilities are properly equipped, the project would also
make available to the approved dealers the foreign exchange necessary to
-moort anorooriate spare parts, tools and equipment. The reasons for approval
or rejection of any application to qualify as an approved dealer would be
docuimented. and such doc-imentation would be made available to Bank supervision
missicns.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procedures
for qualification of dealers would be followed. The Government would submit
to the Bank, as a condition of loan effectiveness, a list of approved dealers,
such list to contain not less than five authorized deal.ers representing not
less than five manufacturers of farm machinery and equipment.
I/  For examoie, average US yields for maize and sorghum grown under
irrigatior are 9.1 ton/ha and 6.5 ton/ha, respectively, compared with
Egyptian averages under comparable conditions of 4.0 ton/ha and
3.S ton/ha.



- 23 -
3.11      The mechanism by which foreign exchange would be made available
would be as follows. Essentially, a working-level stock would be established
for each approved dealler, and the foreign exchange would be made available for
the initial importation of that stock not exceeding US$500,000. Thereafter,
foreign exchange wouL.d be made available on a replacement basis for machinery
sold. For spare parts, however, due to the large number of items involved,
the wide difference in costs and the difficulty in monitoring the sale of
these items, cost of :replacement in foreign exchange would be provided on the
basis of 20% of the cc)st of the machinery and equipment. 1/
3.12      Farmers are .sensitive to differences betueen different models of
machinery and look for a high level of service. Prices and charges payable by
farmers will find their- own equilibrium level as a result of competition as
the number of dealers and their operations increase under the stimulus of the
proposed project. The mnajor constraint to the expansion of the Drivate
dealership system has, tiowever, been the approval procedure of the Import
Rationalization Committee (Tarsheed) (para. 1.29) which is used as a control
mechanism on the allocat:Kon of scarce foreign exchange among competing
demands. As foreign excL ange is allocated under the project specifically for
the import of farm machinery, equipment and spare parts, approval of the
Import Rationalization Covimittee becomes a mere formality.  MOA would be
entrusted with the test-ing- and approval of farm machinery (para 3.30). Once
MOA has approved the imp,ortation of any tested machine or implement, there
would be no need for furthetr individual departmental approvals or for approval
of individual applicaticons every time the machine is imported as at present.
Any machine or implement: wcould thus be subject only once to approval for
importation. Assurance!; were cbtained at negotiations that the authorization
of the import of any aplproved type of machinery under the project would be
made by MOA within 30 dzLys f rom the date of application by the dealer
concerned in the case o-: machinery already tested and approved, and within
60 days in the case of items to be tested and approved for import. Approvals
or rejections by MOA would also Lie sufficiently documented, and sucn
documentation would be made a-railable for review by Bank supervision missions.
3.13      Imports of ag-ricultural machinery by private dealers have until
recently been financed 13y fore::gn exchange purchased on the open market while
certain bilateral trade agreements provided for an exchange rate equivalent to
the official rate or be::ow it.  These policies gave public sector companies an
unfair competitive adva-atage over private importers and inhibited fair
competition. More recerntly, hou ever, most farm machinery imports, whether for
the public or private s -ctors, a re being priced at the new floating rate of
about US$1.00 = LE 1.2'..  In ordE-r to encourage competition and reduce price
distortions, assurances were obta ined from the Governmenc that foreign
exchange for machinery imports un.ler the project would be available to all
approved agricultural irachinery iniporters on the basis of a higher rate of
exchange of the US dollar in Egypt-ian pounds that is sanctioned by CBE at the
time of payment.
3.14      Private dealers would obtiiin foreign exchange for their machinery
imports by payment in cash in local currency (any credit 'arrangements needed
1/ Minimum orders in each case would not be less than US$20,000.



- 24 -
by them would be made through normal commercial channels outside the scope of
this project). Therefore, the funds provided in foreign '2xchange under the
project for the import of such machinery and equipment wo-'d revert to the
Government in local currency within a relatively short period. Such funds
would be deposited with CBE for account of MOA and would b)e utilized to
provide credit to farmers for the purchase of farm machinery through PBDAC and
to cover part of the local currency costs of other project ccmponents
(para 3.43).
3.15      The current interest rate on medium-term loans for agricultural
machinery is 8% per annum.  PBDAC would raise the interEst rate charged on all
its medium-term leans for purchase of farm machinery andl equipment, to an
annual rate of not less than 13%, which is the rate of interest paid by
financial institutions for deposits.  For cooperatives,  the rate would be
raised to 10% and increased gradually until it reaches parity with the rate on
machinery loans to other subborrowers by July 1, 1988.  These measures woAld
discourage the use of credit funds by persons who can afford to utilize tair
own resources and would eliminate bias towards capital intensive farming
techniques.  PBDAC would continue its practice of pro,riding medium-term loans
for purcnase of farm machinery and for workshops referred to in para. 3.17,
repayable over an average period of five years, inclu.ding a one-year grace
period, and would modify its security requirements, :o as to accept the
machine as collateral, without requiring the security of land. PBDAC is
prohibited by law from selling of machinery and woul.d therefore discourage in
future any o' its subsidiaries from charging dealers a commission on machinery
sales. Assurances were obtained that PBDAC would acdhere to the foregoing
conditions.
3.16      As a spread of 4% is estimated to be sufficient to cLver PBDAC's
administrative costs, it is proposed that gover-nenit wculd lend to PBDAC the
counterpart funds .or making farm machinery, equifment and spare parts loans
at 9% oer annum. These funds wouid be repayable over cl period of 10 years,
-including two years of grace.  Assurances were obtainedI to this effect at
negotiations.
fiii) Workshops and Spare Parts
3.17      Workshops.  Funds are provided under the Droject to meet the credit
needs oF individuals or companies who wish to e-stablisn workshops and service
facilities in the rural areas or to expand ex;':.ting faci:'iities, so as to
enable the Private sector to meet the likely demand fo;- repair and maintenance
of farm machinery.  About 35 small workshops z.re expec':ed to be established
during the four years o' the project.  PBDAC  s;taff are camiliar with
medium-term lending procedures started under Credit 83(J--EGT and are adequately
equipped to appraise applications from ProspE:ctive owners/operators of such
facilities.  This procedure would be extended to affiliated BDACs in the
project area ^ve-norates (para. 3.38).  Alt.hough these workshops may not be
established i-n smaller villages, it would b . sufficient for project purposes
that they be located in small towns or othe r areas 'awav  from the main urban
centers.  These funds would be made availalrie in 2art -n foreign exchange so
as to facili.ate the import of the necessa ry tools and equipment.



- 25 -
3.18      Spare Parts.  The project also provides for the import of spare
parts necessary for the repair and maintenance of imported farm machinery and
equipment (para. 3.11).
(iv) Seed Processing
3.19      At present, in general, adequate quantities of seed are reaching
farmers but, frequently, the quality does not meet satisfactory standards for
germination, purity and trueness to type. The factors underlying this
situation are complex and involve institutional issues associated with the
responsibilities and interactions of those producing breeder, foundation,
certified and registered seed; the role of the private sector; pricing and
subsidies; quality control, unsatisfactory field inspection, poorly equipped
testing laboratories and outdated processing machinery; inadequate storage and
marketing arrangements; and ineffective application of existing laws. Under
the project, improvement of seed quality would be brought about through the
modernization of two existing seed laboratories (at Tanta and Giza) and
through the construction of a new 20 ton/hour seed processing plant at Tanta
in Gharbiya Governorate. In addition, the project would include a study of
the national seed industry.
3.20      Seed Laboratories.  CAS operates three seed testing laboratories-at
Minya in middle Egypt, Giza near Cairo, and Tanta in the Delta. All three
laboratories are in similar circumstances having been constructed in 1952;
they now have outdated or inoperative equipment or lack certain essential
facilities. However, staff numbers are adequate and the quality of work
carried out under the existing equipment limitations is relatively good. The
Minya laboratory will be reequipped under the Minya Agricultural Development
Project (IFAD Loan 114-EG). Under the proposed project, both the Giza and
Tanta laboratories would be fully reequipped and brought up to a more
efficient standard so as to be able, for instance, to increase the number of
samples tested annually by about 25X. Significant improvement would also
occur in reliability of testing performance with consequent benefits in seed
quality. The project also provides for 24 man-months of overseas training,
12 man-months of short-course overseas training and 12 man-months of local
training.
3.21      Seed Processing.  The Tanta Seed Processing Plant is operated by the
Egyptian Agricultural Organization (EAO). EAO is an adequately managed
parastatal which operates the plant to a satisfactory standard, given the age
constraint. The plant was constructed in 1955 and consists of nine separate
seed cleaning units having a total capacity of 15 tons/hour. At present, its
annual throughput is about 8,000 tons wheat, 12,000 tons rice and 1,000 tons
soybeans. The building and storage facilities are also dated and require
replacement. The project would provide a replacement 20 ton/hour processing
plant together with a new building and appropriate equipment and facilities
including silo storage. The construction of buildings and installation and
start-up of machinery together with technical assistance for start-up and
training of operators would be provided under p.n internationally advertised
turnkey contract. In addition, provision has been made for 12 man-months of
fellowships to permit study of processing facilities overseas and



- 26 -
12 man-months local training. The benefit of this training is expected to
accrue not only to the Tanta plant, but to the seed processing industry as a
whole. A seed processing specialist would be engaged under the project, not
later than January 31, 1986, to prepare tender specifications and design
management and control systems for pl3nt operations. The Tanta plant is
located in the project area and, combined with the improved seed testing
facilities, is expected to result in substantial improvements in seed quality
and consequently farmers' yields. Benefits from use of improved quality of
seed are difficult to quantify but may result in an increase of crop yield of
10% to 15%. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that modernization of
the two seed-testing laboratories would be cempleted by December 31, 1986, and
that construction and equipping of the seed plant would be completed by
December 31, 1987.
3.22      Study of the Seed Industry.  There is a need to carry out a study
into the various interrelated aspects of the national seeds industry, in order
to determine appropriate courses of action Eor reorganizing it and ensuring
high quality seeds for all crops, and promoting the role of the private sector
in the industry. The study would be directed by the Agricutltural Research
Center. Provision has been made for the use of a team of internationally
recruited consultants (12 man-months) and for local consultants
(12 man-months). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would carry out the proposed study and complete it not later than June 30,
1987 and decide on appropriate actiens to implement approved recommendations
in consultation with the Bank.
(v) Extension and Training Services
3.23      Extension services under the project would operate through the
existing system, which would be utilized for promoting the project's package
of inputs (Chart World Bank 27362). Thus, the Directors of Extension (DE) in
the seven Governorates in the project area would be responsible for
implementing the project's extension program. The DEs are responsible to the
Undersecretary of Extension. The DEs operate through District Extension
Officers (DEO) to Village Extension Supervisors (VES) to Village Extension
Workers (VEW). One of the seven Governorates--Fayoum is proposing to
reorganize its agricultural services under a project being financed by
IFAD/Federal Republic of Germany. Under this project, governorate
agricultural staff would be bifurcated into those for regulatory and service
functions and for extension. The newly structured extension service would
permit a ratio of one extension worker per 200 farmers, while still leaving
adequate numbers for regulatory duties. This identification and
intensification of numbers of extension workers will be followed by the other
Governorates in the proposed project. Numbers of agricultural staff in each
Governorate are adequate to permit this arrangement. The project would pay an
incentive allowance to all project extension staff, including subject matter
specialists (SMS), at an average rate of 100% oF current salary.  This would
ensure commitment to project objectives a..d is in line with existing practice
for most on-going projects.  At negotiati_ons, assurances were obtained that
incentive payments would be paid on a regular basis to staff involved in
project implementation, especially extension workers, at rates commensurate



- 27 -
with their responsibilities and in line with incentive payments made to MOA
staff working in other agricultural projects.
3.24      Existing agricultural services would be strengthened under the
project principally through the provision of 706 demonstrators located at
67 MFCs in the 7 rice growing Governorates. The demonstrators would function
as SMSs in support of field extension staff. Each demonstrator would be
responsible for 3 villages populated on the average by about
650 farmers/village. As the existing extension service becomes better
identified and reorganized, it is 1;kely that each VEW would be responsible
for I village of 650 farm families, instead of two villages as at present.
3.25      Demonstrators would be of B.S. standard and would be recruited from
among the large numbers of agriculturally trained staff in the country,
primarily from within the existing agricultural services. About
10 demonstrators on the average would be located at each MFC. They would be
trained at the MFCs by MFC staff and SMSs in carrying out demonstrations and
training VEWs and farmers in innovative agricultural practices including the
use, where appropriate, of mechanization. Each demonstrator would establish a
number of demonstration plots on farmers' fields in the three village areas
for which he is responsible. These demonstration plots would serve as focal
points for the dissemination of improved cropping practices to farmers.
Demonstrations would be rotated annually so that they are located on different
farmers' plots each year. A package of improved farming practices including
appropriate mechanization would be promoted, especially by demonstrators, ShSs
and existing extension staff. Thus, benefits would accrue, not only to
farmers wishing to use a greater degree of mechanization in their operations
but also to those who wish to improve their production without increased
mechanization inputs.
3.26      SMSs would provide technical expertise in specific aspects of crop
production or of specific crops. They would be drawn from the research
institutes and universities and would operate through the MFCs in conjunction
with the DEO. Their functions would be to assist in training demonstrators at
MFCs, and in developing effective use of demonstration plots as training
grounds, providing technical advice to farmers and, becoming better acquainted
with improved research. Every two districts would be served by a group of
about five SMSs. Thus, under the project, there would be about 165 SMSs whose
specialties would range across a broad spectrum and include crop agronomists
and specialists in plant protection, farm mechanization, and soil and water
management.
3.27      The expansion of mechanization will significantly increase the
demand for trained staff from both public and private sectors. At present,
availability of competent management, supervisory, operator and mechanic
personnel with experience in this field is limited; future requirements can be
satisfied only with the implementation of an extensive mechanization training



- 28 -
program. 1/ The immediate objective of the program would be to organize
practically oriented training of MFTC demonstration teams and of SMSs. This
would be carried out by two internationally experienced agricultural
engineers. Four man-years of technical assistance are provided under the
project for this purpose. Specific training course materials would be
developed by the two engineers who would also provide training for the staff
of the seven MFTCs, and the mechanic SMSs. The MFTC engineers and SMSs would
in turn have the responsibility of training MFC staff.  Training of private
operators and farmers would te the responsibility of the MFC serving the area,
usually at farm-level demonstrations.
3.28      Project objectives with regard to training and technical assistance
requirements of PBDAC and its affiliated credit institutions would be to
extend the new medium-term lending procedures implemented in Sohag and Menufia
by PBDAC under the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT) to the
sever. governorates under this project and to implement the organizational and
procedural improvements proposed by the consultant under that project to
facilitate future growth and effective monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural credit. For this purpose, 48 man-months of consultant services
have been provided for under the project (para. 3.38).
(vi) Testing and Research
3.29      Machinery testing is part of Government strategy to develop and
support the type of machinery most appropriate to Egyptian needs. It aims at
protecting the farmer from purchasing equipment unsuitable for his purposes
and accelerates the acceptance of adopted machinery. These measures should
help farmers avoid a costly process of trial and error. In view of the
weakness of the private sector at the present time, government testing centers
ha-e to play this role.
3.30      Testing would be carried out in one or more of the testing centers
for identifying a range of machines from which the farmer or contractor could
select the best for his farming conditions. The PTC in the Delta is at Sakha
and would require no equipment funding under the project. The Governmient is
in the process of establishing an MFTC in each governorate, a total of
seven centers in the project area; two have been already established and the
remaining five would be constructed during the first three years of the
project. The objectives of the PTC and MFTCs are to: (i) introduce, test and
certify a wide range of machinery under farm conditions; (ii) demonstrate new
mechanized farming systems and promote technological packages at a series of
field days; (iii) train staff within the MFTCs and MFCs on the effective
operation and maintenance techniques of the farm machinery; and (iv) provide
the opportunity to foreign manufacturers to have their machinery tested under
field conditions in Egypt. In general, testing should be considered as a
1/ The project would benefit from the farm machinery training carried out
under the ongoing !DA-assisted Third Educatio' Project (Credit 1069-EGT)
by utilizing trained staff for manning MFCs a.d in trairing of farmers and
machinery operators.



- 29 -
field evaluation of tractor-drawn implements and self-propelled units.
Approval, rejection or delay in the testing of any machine would be adequately
documented, and such documentation would be made available for examination by
Bank supervision missions. The Government would submit to the Bank, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, a list of all agricultural machinery that
have been tested and approved for importation up to that date. It is
understood that machinery that has already been successfully operating
commercially in the country (particularly tractors) and has undergone tests at
internationally recognized institutions would be approved for importation
without further testing.
3.31      Applied research, as distinct from testing, is a long-term process
for the development or modification of machinery to render it suitable for
particular operations under Egyptian conditions. A five-year applied research
plan defines the objectives of this program as covering the following main
aspects of the development of appropriate mechanization systems:
(i) mechanical power; (ii) comparative tillage methods; (iii) sowing and
planting; (iv) mechanical croD cultivation; (v) mowing, removal of cotton
stalks; and (vi) harvesting of small grain crops. Therefore, funding under
the project would be limited to a number of farm machinery items and
components for evaluation, modification and development, academic and
technical training of staff up to a total of 60 man-months and the provision
of technical assistance in the form of the services of research and
development engineers for a total of 36 man-months.
(vii) Demonstration
3.32      A farmer or a custom hire service operator does not feel comfortabLe
about purchasing equipment with which he is unfamiliar unless he has seen a
field demonstration.  In view of the relatively limited role plaved by the
private sector in this field in Egypt at present, and the need to promote such
farm mechanization rapidlv, government-operated MFCs, which would provide
demonstration and advice on mechanization as part of a package of agricultural
practices, are seen, for the time being, as the oniv practicable means of
initiating the farmer into the use of newly introduced farm machinery.
However, it is anticipated that, as mechanization in farming gathers monentum,
the role of the orivate ,ector in testing, developing and proinoting use of
machinery will become dominant, and the Government's role will be confined to
research and service through extension.  Recognizing the transitional and
limited nature of this role, the project orovides for a series of evalluations
of the Derrormance of MF.Cs (para. 3.36).
3.33      the demonstration program would commence with MFTCs.  Each M.F?C
would have 3 demonstrat4on teams: one for cultivation ard planting; a secendi
for crop prctection, crop cultivation and ditching; and the third for
harvesting.  The main medium for demonstrations would be field davs held a,
central points wit;hin each district.  Or. the basis of 3-month cultivation and
planting periods Per year, i.e., 90 days, one team would complete an average
of 30 field days/year, i.e., 3 field days/district, each field day with an
average catchment area of 16,000 feddan representing about 6,500 farmers.
Other teams would carry out a similar number of field days each year.  Cereal



- 30 -
harvesting extends over 60 days/year; therefore, the harvesting team would
complete 20 field days, i.e., two field days/district, each field day with an
average catchment of 10,000 farmers (25,000 feddan). A total of 8 field
days/year/district is, therefore, planned. Within the 4-year project period,
each MFTC, serving an average of 9 districts, would arrange a total of
288 field days, serving 175,000 farmers. Assuming an attendance level of 70%,
of the farmers in an area participating in at least I field day, the coverage
would approach 120,000 farmers/governorate or about 900,000 farmers of about
1,370,000 total farmers in the project area. The dealers would be encouraged
to participate in the field days and demonstrate their own equipment with the
objective of the private sector eventually taking over responsibility for
field days.
3.34      At the field days, farmers would have the opportunity to view new
items of equipment, and where any farmer sees an application for a machine on
his own farm, he can request a farm-level demonstration.  These demonstrations
would be the responsibility of the MFCs. Demonstrators would be drawn, in the
first instance, from existing district agricultural staff, and under the
project. they would maintain their responsibilities to the DEO and upwards to
the governorate DE. However, since the facilities of MFCs would be provided
as a specialist support to extension workers by the office of Undersecretary
for Mechanized Farming, demonstrators and mechanized farming SMSs would
maintain a close relationship with the heads of MFCs and upwards Lo the Under
Secretary for Mechanized Farming. An MFC would be establishLd in each
district, each center serving, on the average, an area of
50,000 feddan/20,0CO farmers. The need for this number is dictated by the
area each is expected to cover and the condition of rural roads, which
inhibits mobility. The MFCs are essentially demonstration, training and
extension centers that would provide farm-level demonstrations of operations
of machines that have been found, through tests at the PTCs and MFTCS, to be
technically suit2ble and financially viable and also have been successfully
demonstrated at the field days. Funds are provided under the project for the
establishment of 50 such centers (10 have already been established); 15 during
each of the first two years, and the remaining 20 during the third year. The
NFC module is simple to construct, covering an area of about 260 m2
including office, store, workshop and machinery storage area at a total cost
of about LE 342,000 each, including LE 40,000 for civil works and LE 225,000
for farm machinery.
3.35      The cost of operating the NFTCs and the field days would be borne by
MOA within the context of its existing extension ser-ices.  Demonstrations
carried out by L'1FCs at farm level would be chargeable to the farmer at a fully
economic rate compatible with what a custom hire ser:ice operator needs to
charge including a reasonable margin of profit. Apart from ensuring that the
private sector would suffer no unfair competition, these charges should help
the MFCs in becoming self-supporting and enable the farmer to make a rational
decision on the financial viability, as well as the technical suitability, of
a particular mechanized operation on his farm. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that~ (i) MFCs would not undertake any activities that could be
construed as opetating a machinery hire service in competition with private
operators and would restrict such activities to the demonstration of tested



- 31 --
machinery on farmers' fields; (ii) the cost of such demonstrations would he
recovered from farmers on a basis to be applied by MOA, provided that such
charges would not be less than the full cost of operating such machinery; and
(iii) such demonstration would be carried out only once on any farmer's field
to enable the largest possible number of farmers to benefit from such
demonstration activities. Assurances were also obtained that each center
would maintain proper inventory records and accounts, would employ the
necessary accounting staff for this purpose, and that these accouTits wotuld be
audited annualLy by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
3.36      As two MFTCs and LO MFCs have already been established, an
evaluation would be carried out of those which are completed and operational
to determine whether proper records are maintained and such activities, as
have taken place. are in conformity with the above principles.  Completion of
this evaluation by MOA and the recommendation of a two-year phased plan for
constructing, equipping and staffing MFCs in a manner satisfactory to the Batnk
would be a condition of disbursement for this component of the project. in
addition, an evaluation would be carried out by MOA at the end of the second
year or upon the establishment of 30 MFCs under the project, whichever occurs
earlier, and a plan submitted for the following two years. This would help
determine tae need for any change in policy direction with regard to these
centers Ljosed on an examination of their records, an evaluation of their
financial performance and of their impact on farm mechanization.  Fuirther Bank
lsan disbursement for additional MFCs would be determined by the Bank on the
basis of this evaluation (para 4.08). A final evaluation would be carried cut
at project completion at the end of the fourth year. The objectives,
arrangements and terms of reference for these evaluations were agreed at
negotiations (Schedule 1). Since the role of MFCs in demonstration of farm
machinerv and implements is transitional in nature, it is expected that these
will be phased out by sale to cooperatives, individuals or other organizations
who may wish to use the facilities as custom hire service centers.  NFTCs, on
the other hand, are expected to continue their activities in testing of
machinery and training of operators.  The timing of such phasing out of MFCs
would be determrined on the basis of the results of the final evaluatiorn in
agreement with the Bank. Assurances were obtained on the evaluations as
indicated above.
3.37      Each center would be pro-v-ided with service facilities which wou>d be
limited in siz; to carrv out routine maintenance of its cwn machinery; it is
intended that major repairs would be undertaken by the dealers.  Assuranc"s
were cobtained at negotiations that a'l mnzchinery and equipmenL .it .il pro J'ct
centers woulld te kept in proper operating condition.
fv ii) Technical Assistance
3.38      Four areas of research coveriag tillage, planting, crop protection
and harvesting have been identified as req(uiring further investig -i-ln.  A
total of 36 man-months of external technical assistance is prov'id1c  or this
purpose under the project (para. 3.31). in addition, funds are provided .or
50'man-miron_hs of study tours for appiied research staff.  Funds are also
proviced under the project to continue the farm machinery testing and studies



- 32 -
that were begun under Credit 830-EGT. Overall, provision is made for
210 man-months of internationally qualified technical assistance personnel and
60 man-months of foreign study tours for MFC staff.
3.39      In the past few years, PBDAC has expanded its operations at an
unprecedented rate, and a further increase is expected in the coming years.
Funds would be provided under the project for implementing the recommendations
made by the consultants under Credit 830-EGT on PBDAC's organization and
procedures.  This would take the form of formal training sessions, and
follow-up assistance and direct support by consultants to their counterparts
and staff of the PBDAC group. Their areas of specialization would include
organizational development, accounting and budgeting, computerization and
management information syscems. Altogether, 48 man-months of technical
assistance would be provided for this purpose (para. 3.28).
D. Project Costs
3.40      Project costs are estimated at LE 448.7 million (US$359.0 million)
of which foreign exchange cost is LE 223.4 million (US$179.0 million) or 50%
of total cost. [U Project costs include taxes and duties of abaut
LE 8.5 million (US$6.8 million). Total costs excluding taxes and duties would
amount to LE 440.2 million (US$352.2 million). All project costs are
calculated as at April 1985. Physical contingencies have been provided only
for civil works at a rate of 5%. Allowances for price contingencies have been
applied to loca; costs at 16% for 1985, 14% for 1986 and 12% thereafter, and
to foreign exchange costs at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 8% thereafter.
1/  2roject costs are based on an e-:c[hange rate of US$1.00 = i 1.2'5   As a
s.rateg_c commodity. incremental ,arm inputs would be valuted by the
Government at the official exchanige rate of US$1.00 = LE 0.70.  This would
give a total cost in Egyptian pounds of LE 417.9 million and in US dollars
oL $377.5 million.



% Foreign      Z Total
Local   Forei n   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange    Base Costs
    (LE Million)           -----(US$ Million)----
Incremental Farmn Inputs                 37.0      37.2      74.2    29.6       29.8      59.4       50              21
Farm Machinery                           53.8      85.7     139.5    43.1       68.5    111.6        61              40
Workshops & Spare Parts                  28.8      42.1      70.9    23.1       33.7      56.8       59              21
Seed lProcessing                          2.1       2.0       4.1      1.7       1.6       3.3       49               1
Extensioni & Training                    13.7       2.1      15.8    10.9        1.7      12.6       14               4
Testinig & Researchi                      3.6       3.8       7.4      2.9       3.1       6.0       51               2
Demonstrationi                           20.7      12.2      32.9    16.5        9.8      26.3       37               9
Technical Assistanice                     1.6       6.7       8.3      1.2       5.4       6.6       81               2
Total Baseline Costs                    161.3    191.8    353.1   129.0    153.6    282.6            54             100
Plhysical & Price Cunltingencies         h3.9      31.7      95.6    51.0       25.14    76.4        33              27
Total Project Costs                     225.2    223.5    448.7   180.0    179.0    359.0            50             127



- 34 -
E. Proiect Financing
3.41      Project costs would be financed as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total   Bank    Co-financiers   Govt   Seneftciaries
-----------------------------(USs Million)----------------------------
Incremental farm inputs    43.7        36-1      79.8      -          36.1                      43.7
Farm machinery               59.1      79.6    138.7    79.6            -            -          59.1
Workshops & spare parts    21.1        39.0      70.1    39-0           -            -          31.1
Seed processing               2.1       1.9       4.0      -           1.9          2.1          -
Extension & training         15.4       2.0      17.4      -           2.0         15.4          -
Testing & research            3.7       3.3       7-0      3.3          -           3-7          -
Demonstration                23.2      11.0      34.2    11.0           -          23.2          -
Technical assistance          1.7       6.1       7.8g     6-1                      1.7        _
Total                     180.0    179.0    359.0   139.0          40.0         46.1         133.9
The breakdown of investments according to category of goods would be as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total
----(USS Million)-----
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                    4.0       1.0       S.0
Machinery                     58.5      91.7    150.2
Equipment                      1.6       3.6       5.2
Spare Parts                   29.9      38.4      68.3
Vehicles                       1.3       3.0       4.3
Office Equipment               0.2       -         0.2
Incremental Farm Inputs       43.7      36.1     79.8
Extension & Training           1.7       0.8       2.5
Consultants & Studies          0.4       4.4       4.8
Total In.estment Costs   141.3    179.0    320.3
RECURRENT COSTS               38.7                38.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          180.0    179.0    359.0



- 35 -
3.42      Foreign exchange costs (US$179.0 million) would be financed as
follows: US$139 million by the proposed Bank loan and US$40 million by two
proposed loans of the African Development Bank and the African Development
Fund. Local costs would be financed by the Government (US$46.1 million) and
by the beneficiaries including dealers and farmers (US$133.9 million). Funds
provided under the project to cover local costs to be financed by the
Government would be passed on to MOA.
3.43      A separate project account would be established by MOA at CBE which
would be fed in local currency by amounts paid by machinery dealers upon
receipt of shipping documents (para. 3.14). Because the foreign exchange
needed for the import of machinery and equipment would revert in local
currency to the Government within a very short period, such funds would be
utilized to provide the financing of the credit needs of farmers and custom
hire service operators to purchase farm machinery and equipment. It is
estimated that payments into the account would approximate LE 130.0 million of
-which only about LE 100.0 million would be required to satisfy the credit
needs of machinery subborrowers. The remaining LE 30.0 million would be used
by MOA to cover part of the local project costs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that funds in the project special account with CBE would be
allocated between PBDAC and MOA in the ratio of 3:1, and would be utilized bv
them for project purposes only. Bank supervision missions would, in addition,
closely monitor the utilization of the funds in the special account.  The
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PBDAC would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The subsidiary loar, agreement would
stipulate that the following funds would be allocated to PBDAC:   (i) to meet
the credit needs of farm machinery and for subborrowers' workshops which would
be nn-lent to subborrowers on the terms and conditions indicated in
para. 3.15; and (ii) technical assistance funds to cover the institution
building of PBDAC. Both funds under (i) and (ii) above would be provided to
PBDAC at an interest rate of 9% per annum for a period of 10 years including a
two-year grace period. Similarly, the signing of the co-financing agreeme:'ts
providing the funds from the African Development Bank and the African
Development Fund referred to in Dara. 3.42 would be a condition of loan
elfectiveness.
F. Procurement
3.44      The Droject concept is based orn the principle of opening the
agricultural machinery market to all Bank member countries so as to stimulate
competition and provide the farmer or the custom hire service operator with
free choice. Accordingly, provision would be made for sufficient notice to be
given internationally so that manufacturers from all Bank member countries
would have an equal opportunity to establish an agency in Egypt in accordance
with government regulations (which are easy to comply with) and qualify for
financing under the project.  In addition, the procedure for machinerv
importation into the country -would be significantly simplified, thereby
eliminating the necessity for individual permits (para. 3.12).
3.45      The Govern-ment would ettablish a list of approved dealers who
qualify under the project (para. 3.09) and a list of approved machinery and



- 36 -
implements by model and specification (para. 3.30). Payment would be made
directly to the supplier's bank upon proof of shipment of goods (para. 3.49).
Each approved dealer would represent one or more machinery manufacturers.
Procurement would be open to all who qualify and wish to compete.
3.46      Machinery, implements and equipment (other than tractors) required
for the testing and demonstration centers and for the research center would be
procured by MOA by direct purchase since these would be item-specific.
Tractors required for the testing, demonstration and research centers would be
procured from the machinery dealers in the same manner as any private
operator. Machinery and equipment for workshops and other items not exceeding
in the aggregate US$100,000 would be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures, which are at present generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. During
negotiations, agreements were reached regarding the changes needed to make the
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works for
the testing and demonstration centers would involve relatively small
expenditure at any one time as each center is estimated to cost less than
LE 50,000. These works would be widely dispersed over time (four years) and
area (seven governorates); therefore, bulking and ICB would not be
practicable. Consequently, local competitive bidding procedures, as amended,
would apply. Vehicles would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts for the provision of technical assistan-e would be in
accordance witb Bank guidelines and subject to Bank approval. Details are
given in Table 10.
G. Disbursements
3.47      The proposed Bank loan of US$139.0 million would cover about 7S8  of
the foreign exchange cost of the project. Because of the shortage of farm
machinery on the market to satisfy the pent-up demand and the simplification
of the elaborate procedures for importation of machinery, it is expected that
disbursements would be rather swift. Comparison with other disbursement
profiles is not fully appropriate, but their structure has nevertheless been
used as the basis for the disbursement schedule (Table 11). The disbursements
are expected to be completed in six years instead of eight years as indicated
by EMENA disbursement profiles for agricultural projects.
3.48      Disbursements out of the Bank loan for project components, which
would be fully documented, would be as follows:
(i) 100X of foreign expenditures (US$124.5 million) for:
- machinery, equipment and spare parts, imported by
dealers by payment to suppliers' banks;
- machinery and equipment for workshops;
- machinery for MFCs, MFTCs and for applied research;



- 37 -
- computer hardware and software for PBDAC; and
- fellowships and consultancies;
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures, or 60% of local (US$1.0
million) for vehicles; and
(iii) unallocated (US$13.5 million).
3.49      Disbursements for import of machinery and spare parts would be made
by using any of IBRD disbursement procedures, including direct payment to the
suppliers or opening of letters of credit by the importers' banks, and
reimbursement by IBRD of payments made by the correspondent banks where
appropriate. Use of a revolving fund would be particularly suitable for this
project because of the expected large number of orders and the consequent
number of withdrawal applications. Details of disbursement procedures to be
followed were agreed at negotiations.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.50      Project accounts for each component, other than the credit
component, would be kept by the project office at MOA. Each MFC, MFTC and the
PTC would maintain proper accounts and records and would employ the necessary
accounting staff for this purpose (para. 3.35). These accounts would be
consolidated into the project accounts at MOA and would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Such accounts, together with the
audit report, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year.
3.51      PBDAC and its affiliates and branches have been involved in other
Bank projects and found to maintain satisfactory records and accounts. They
would keeD separate accounts for project activities, submit summary statements
for subloans, and maintain all the necessary records relating to subloans.
These records would be made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. PBDAC's annual accounts and statements of project accounts audited
by independent public accountants acceptable to the Bank, would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
i. Environmental ImDact
3.52      The impact of intensified extension services through the mechanized
farming centers and on-farm demonstrations would raise the level of farmers'
technical ability and lead to better care and conservation of existing farm
land. Promotion of irrigation pumps and mechanized leveling, and emphasis by
extension workers on impri-ved irrigation practices would encourage better
water usage, fuller utilization of chemical nutrients, and result in improved
crop yields. Plant deficiencies, for instance, in iron, zinc and manganese
would be rectified through foliar sprays. Promotion of mechanized ditch
cleaning would lead to imoroved drainage and better use of irrigation water.



- 38 -
While the increased agricultural mechanization would result in an increase in
fuel consuription in the project rural areas, the resulting impact on the
environment would be insignificant.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that onlv agricultural chemicals and herbicides conforming to appropriate
technical standards would be used in the project area.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management and Organization
4.01      The Government oL Egypt would be the Borrower under the project.
Project implementation would involve MOA, PBDAC, some commercial banks and
privaze seccor machinery importers. MOA would assume primary responsibility
for the project through the Under Secretary for Mechanization and National
Agricultural Production Programs who would be the Project Director and would
be assisted in his task of day-to-day management of the project by the Project
Executive Z1anager and five deputies responsible for planning, procurement,
finance and administration, monitoring and evaluation, and extension
coordination. These deputies would have the responsibility for overall
supervision of project activities in their fields of specialization and
reporting to the Executive MYanager. The appointment of the Executive Manager
of the rank of Director General acceptable to the Bank is a condition of loan
effectI,iveness.
4.02      The FTC at Sakha would have general supervisory responsibility for
all machinery centers in the project area, and its manager would report
direcziy to the Project Director. The managers of the seven MFTCs would
operaze under the unmbrella of the PTC; each would be responsible for the
activities of his MFTC at governorate level and the MFCs at the district level
within his governorate. Thus, orn average, each manager of a MFTC would
suoervise the activi ties of about nine MFCs.  This organizational network
would ensure the smooth operation of the testing, demonstration and extension
activities s- the project and would establish the responsibility for approval
of qualified dealers and the certification of tested machinery and equipment.
The resDonsibilities oF demonstrators and mechanized farming SMSs, and the
relationshi-  between the existing extension service and MFCs, are discussed in
paras.
;_03      The pro-oc- --iouid operate through the existing agricultural
extensicn system;  hnart - World Bank 27362 depicts the functional organization
c'F  :e extension ser-v:ce.  The countrv is divided into seven regions for
research coordination. At governorate level, agricultural affairs are
coorcinated bD an `rndersecretary for Agriculture, through a Director General
of Agricultural Af.fairs, dealing with the regulatory and supply aspects of
production. Extension Affairs are managed by a Director of Extension who is
resocnsiD_e c:rectlv to the Undersecretarv for Mechanized Farming and
Product-on Programs. Furtherm.ore, strong iinks would be forged between
e::xtenslon and research at ail levels, Darticularly through the senior
officials and SNISs at each of the seven regional centers.



- 39 -
4.04      Credit activities under the project would be undertaken by PBDAC and
its affiliated banks in the project area (para. 3.14). PBDAC would also be
responsible for monitoring the procurement of machinery and the granting of
subloans to farmers and other custom hire service operators. Details of
PBDAC's terms and conditions on loans to borrowers are given in Schedule 2.
Though the rate on medium-term loans is being raised from 8% to 13% ulder the
project (para. 3.15), the rates charged by PBDAC and its affiliates are
negative in real terms with inflation currently estimated at about 20%.
Interest rates, however, should not be viewed in isolation from crop prices
which are also controlled by the Government. Farmers are required by law to
deliver a given quota of certain commodities, such as rice and wheat, at less
than the domestic market prices which are also below the average import
prices. The Egyptian authorities are aware of the need for policy reform in
this area and have begun to act accordingly. The movement in this direction
has however, been cautious, in view of the political sensitivity to likely
repercussions. As a result, procurement quotas have been declining, and
official prices have been increased for a few major crops (para. 1.10).
Nevertheless, it has been roughly estimated that, for 11 major crops, farmers
receive only about 60% of the economic price or, if allowance is made for
subsidized inputs, a little over 70%. An adjustment in the interest rates is
therefore unlikely without a comparable improvement in crop prices. The
Government has stressed that movement in the direction of reducing subsidies
and lifting controls on prices has begun but that such movement will have to
be gradual. Therefore, the Government is not proposing any increase -n
interest rates on seasonal loans for the time being.
4.05      In order to set policy direction and planning and ensure
coordination between the different sectors and organizations involved in
project implementation, an Advisory committee would be set up not later than
October 31, 1985 which would be chaired by the Project Director and would meet
at least once every quarter. Membership of the committee would consist of the
Executive Manager, a representative of PBDAC and two representatives of the
farmers in the project area. The Project Director would invite, as
appropriate, representatives of machinery dealers to participate in the
Committee's proceedings. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these
arrangements would be made.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.06      Overall monitoring and its coordination under the project would be
undertaken by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in MOA established under
Credit 830-EGT. Ilts task would be to collect, collate and analyze project
data for the use of the Project Director. Each participating organization
(the concerned departments in MOA and PBDAC) would be responsible for
providing regularly primary data on their operations which would result in
gathering information on utilization of project inputs, on starting of project
activities, on timely completion of physical and institut onal targets and on
circumstances that are critical to the effective implementation of the project
so as to give an early warning about implementation problems requiring
corrective action. Each participating organizaeion would therefore prepare
for the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit quarterly monitoring reports that would



- 40 -
measure the project performance in achieving the physical and financial
targets as well as compliance with the agreed parameters and other conditions
set at appraisal. The detailed contents of monitoring reports of the
participating organizations would be agreed with the Bank. For this purpose,
each of the participating organizations would need to recruit or assign
qualified persons for the monitoring tasks at different levels. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would provide the necessary advisory assistance
to the relevarit departments of MOA.
4.07      The Project Director would be responsible for submitting quarterly
and annual reports to the Advisory Committee. The report formats would be
agreed upon between MOA and the Bank. A copy of each report would be
submitted to the Bank within 10 weeks from the end of the reporting period.
4.08      At the end of two years from loan effectiveness, or the
establishment of 30 MFCs under the project, whichever is earlier, a review of
project implementation would be carried out by the Government, in consultatior,
with the Bank, particularly with regard to: (i) progress achieved in testing
of machinery; (ii) the impact of the new import procedures on the easing of
import constraints; and (iii) an examination of MFCs' activities, records and
charges to farmers and an evaluation of their effectiveness as an extension
mechanism (para. 3.36). Further loan disbursement under the project for the
establishment of additional MFCs would be determined by a Bank decision on the
basis of its examination of this review and evaluation.
4.09      The Agricultural Extension and Research Institute of MOA would
launch a long-term survey to evaluate the full impact of project components on
agricultural production. Special emphasis would be placed on the impact of
farm mechanization on farm size, labor displacement, migration from rural to
urban areas, changes in farming and cropping patterns, and farm incomes.
V. PRODUCTION, ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Production
5.01      Crop budgets and farm models have been developed for the principal
crops grown in the project area and for typical farm sizes. For this purpose,
farms of two sizes have been chosen: (i) a farm of 0.9 feddan which was the
average size holding under 5 feddan in 1979 and represented 95% of all farm
holdings (para. 2.01); and (ii) a farm three times larger (2.7 feddan) which
should help identify the labor problems of widely representative but larger
units.  Farmer participation, in terms of adoption of the technological
packages under the project, has been estimated on conservative assumptions,
though actual performance is expected to exceed these modest expectations.
Firstly, it is assumed that the proportion of farmers adopting any part of the
package at all will be only at the low level of 6% o. the total number of
farmers in the project area in the first year, and will gradually rise to only
50% over a seven-year period. Secondly, it is assumed that the levels of
response will vary among the participants. The proportion of high-response



- 41 -
farmers will increase from 0.36% of the total number of project area farmers
in the first year to 7.08% in the tenth year; the proportion of
average-response farmers from 2.04% to 20.44%; and that of Low-response
farmers from 3.63% to 22.45%. It is further assumed that some farmers will
hire appropriate machinery from private operators and cooperatives at
commercial hire rates. With only modest usage of mecilanization, the models
show that on a 2.7 feddan farm 49 man-days of hired labor are required costing
LE 171.50 before development, whereas this would be reduced to only 13 and 15
man-days costing LE 45.50 and LE 52.50 respectively for an average- or
high-response farmer. Furthermore, the labor saving effect of mechanization
in the peak season would permit the farmer to increase his cropping intensity
which, in the case of the average and high-response farmers, is conservatively
assumed to rise from 1.90 to 1.95.
5.02      Projected crop yield levels under the project before development and
for the three levels of adoption would be as follows:
Before          Low      Average      High
Development   Response   Response   Response
---      (tons/feddan)-----
Catch Crop Berseem           7.50          8.00       9.CN)      10.00
Full-term Berseem           18.00         20.00      22.00       27.00
Broadbeans                   0.95          1.00       1.10        1.20
Wheat                        1.40          1.60       1.80        2.00
Tomatoes                    15.00         18.00      21.00       25.00
Cotton /a                    6.50          7.00       7.50        8.00
Rice                         2.30          2.50       3.00        3.50
Maize                        1.70          2.20       2.56        2.75
Vegetables                   3.00          3.60       4.20        5.00
Maize - nili                 1.10          1.60       1.80        2.00
/a Tn kentars (157.5 kg).
Yields before development reflect national and governorate average yield
levels and results from intensive farmer surveys, e.g., those conducted by the
Egyptian Water Use and Management Project (EWP). High-response yields are
justified by practical experience of various projects including the Rice
Research and Training Project and EMCIP. h summary of farm model indicators
is given below:



- 42 -
Before          Low      Average       High
Developmenli   Response   Response   Response
---------------------(0.9 feddan farm)---                   - -------
Gross Income from Crops         (LE)       592           664       773           873
Net Farm Profit /a              (LE)        90           151       198           284
Hired Labor               (man-days)       -             -         -             -
Net Farm Income /b              (LE)       478           543       569           662
Return on net farm income
per family man-day equivalent          4.31           4.85     5.37          6.13
Index                                      100           113      125           142
Increase in gross income
from crops                              -             12%      31%           47Z
--------------------------(2.7 feddan farm)-----------------------------
Gross Income from Crops         (LE)    1,775          1,991    2,311          2,611
Net Farm Profit /a              (LE)       534           713      864          1,124
Hired Labor               (man-days)        49            48        13            15
Net Farm Income /b              (LE)    1,151          1,357    1,459          1,729
Return on net farm income
per family man-day equivalent          6.50           7.37     8.58         10.00
Index                                     100            113      132           154
Increase in gross income
from crops                              -            12%       30%           47%
/a  Net farm profit = Income from crops, byproducts and livestock, less
variable and fixed costs, hired labor and value of family labor.
/b  Net farm income = Net farm profit + value of family labor.
5.03      The adoption of improved practices has been assumed at quite modest
levels. By Project Year 7, about 50% of the farmers in the project area are
assumed to be following the improved practices at various levels of adoption,
while the remaining 50% will not adopt any of the recommended practices (para.
5.01).  However, it is not until Project Year 10 that stability is achieved
with an assumed 7% of project area farmers adopting them at high response, 20%
at average response and 23% at low response. Actual experience of farmer
response to intensified dissemination of improved practices under previous or
ongoing projects, e.g., under the Rice Research and Training Project and EMCIP
programs, indicates that the levels of adoption assumed under the project are
realistically attainable. The assumed rates of adoption of improved practices
by project farmers are given in the following table:



- 43 -
Adoption of Improved Practices by Farmers
(numbers of farmers '000)
Years
1     2     3      4     5      6     7      8     9    10
Adoption Standards
High Response          5    10    21    31    52    55    68    75    82    97
Average Response      28    71   113   169   229   262   295   288   288   280
Low Response          49    77   119   184   239   293   322   322   315   308
Total              82   158   253   384   520   610   685   685   685   685
Farmers included
in Project as X
of farmers in
Area /a                6    11    18    28    38    h4    50    50    50    50
/a  Total number of farmers in seven rice growing governorates:  1,370,000.
5.04      On the above assumptions at maturity in Year 10, incremental annual
production would amount to LE 280 million (US$224 million). The principal
crops contributing to production increases are maize (20%); berseem (17%);
rice (16%); tomatoes (13%); crop by-products (12%); wheat (8%); and cotton
(7%). Broadbeans and vegetables account for the balance of 7%. In terms of
physical output, incremental production at maturity would be berseem (catch
crop and full term) 3,167,000 tons; tomatoes 734,000 tons; cotton 53,000 tons;
maize (summer and nili) 329,000 tons; rice (paddy) 342,000 tons: wheat
204,000 tons; vegetables (summer and nili) 84,000 tons; and broadbeans
19,000 tons. Given the increasing size of the domestic market, no problems
are foreseen in marketing the additional production.
B. Economic Benefits
Financial Analysis
5.05      Project investments are made by several types of individual units
including farmers, custom hire service operators, and demonstration centers.
Analysis of the financial benefits of project components has been carried out
for a small custom hire service operator, another with a 10 feddan farm of his
own, for a cooperative, for a mechanized farming center and for the two types
of individual farm models mentioned above, i.e., 0.9 feddan and 2.7 feddan at
different levels of response (para. 5.01).
5.06      Farmers' benefits are based on savings restilting from mechanization
(in seeds and labor) and on estimates of increased production (para. 5.02).
The benefits of private cuotom hire service operators are derived from service
charges, while revenue earhed by the MFCs are the charges paid by farmers for
services carried out on their farms for demonstration purposes.  The current



- 44 -
charge levels have been used for the services by machinery already used (e.g.,
tractors and plows) and cost plus profit for services by new types of
machinery (e.g., rice transplanters and harvesters). The costs of operations
are based on recent actuial data from the units already in operation in Egypt.
5.07      The financial rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated
at 35%. A typical custom hire service operator would have a 20% return on his
investment. A mechanized farming center, on the other hand, would break even
in its demonstration activities, given a 30% markup on the cost of its
operations (excludinig extension and training). Separate cash flow analyses
prepared for custom hire service operators show that their operations would
generate sufficient funds to meet their debt service requirements and working
capital needs. Sensitivity analyses carried out indicate that moderate
changes in estimated income (-10%) or one year's lag in benefits would still
give a rate of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital (details are
given in Tables 12-1S). In the case of the individual farm models, the
returns to the outlays are estimated to range between 70% to 90%, depending on
the level of response and size of farm.  Details are given in Tables 12-15.
5.08      The benefits to the farmer are based, basicaill, on estimates of
increased production arising from (i) timeliness in farming operations,
particularly for the following crop, and (ii) the farmers' adoption of the
improved technological packages. The technological packages proposed under
the project include the following farm inputs: improved seed, increased use
of herbicides, increased use of pesticide, increased use of fertilizer and
increased use of farm machinery.  The farm models referred to earlier
(para. 5.03) do not identify the impact of any one component of the production
package as such relativ-e to another (e.g., mechanization and fertilizer)
since, to a great extent, these components are interrelated and, while
individually, their introduction would have some benefit (e.g., manually
applied fertilizer), their full benefit could only be realized when each is
used in conjunction with another component (e.g., mechanical placement of
fertilizer). SimiLarly, one component may not be feasible unless combined
with another; for example, mechanical harvesting cannot be successfully
carried out unless the land is suitably prepared.
5.09      While it -s not easy to determine the cost/benefits of the use of
farm machinery in isclation, an estimate of Its financial impact can be
indirectly inferred bv comparing the relative benefits attained by the "low
response" farmer and ttie "high response" farmer.  The low-response farmer does
not increase the level of mechanization over the "before development"
situation, but does accept an increase in fertilizer, herbicide and pesticide
use as well as improved seed. The high-response farmer increases the level of
all inputs including mechanization, operates machinery to a high management
intensity, and reduces the labor input.  In the case o' rice and `erseem,
there is a significant difference in benefits between. the low- and
high-response farmer, and, while this cainnot totally be attributed tc
mechanization, this factor may be estimated to account for at ieast 30% of the
dif'erence.  Though most operations seem more expensive when carriec cut by
mAchinery and equipment compared to the manua'l or other "old" metheds, the
fact remains that the overall benefits of the technological package cannot be



- 45 -
reached without mechanization. Furthermore, increased demand for labor,
resulting from more intensive farming and higher crop yields, cannot be met
with the existing labor force. However, in combination with the other
elements of the package, mechanization results in a significant increase in
output of labor. In the case of a 2.7 feddan farm, for example, the return to
family labor on a whole-farm basis increases under the project from LE 6.5 to
LE 10.0/man-day for the high-response farmers.
Economic Analysis
5.10      The analysis of economic benefits due to the project shows that, for
an economic rate of return of 18% to be achieved for the entire project, it
would only require the participation of about 30% of project area farmers by
year 7 at different levels of response, i.e., 4.5% at high response, 12% at
average response and 13.5% at low response. Account is taken of all costs
including those related to demonstration and extension. However, on the basis
of more likely adoption rates and incremental benefits given in
paras. 5.01-5.04, the overall economic rate of returr, of the project in this
case was estimated at 30%. Details are given in Table 16.
5.11      The following assumptions underlie the ERR calculations:
(i) Costs 1/ and benefits were calculated using mid-1984 constant
prices which were adjusted to represent costs and benefits at
the farm level.
(ii) Financial prices were converted into economic prices on the
basis of a combination of (i) standard conversion factors
(SCF); (ii) accounting ratios explicitly calculated for
agricultural outputs and inputs in Egypt; and (iii) suitably
adjusted f.o.b. prices for major agricultural crops.
Adjustments which were made to obtain economic prices are
given in Annex 9.
(iii)  Investment costs were estimated net of taxes and transfer
payments and were adjusted to reflect the economic values of
agricultural chemicals (fertilizers, herbicides, etc.), fuel
and labor, both skilled and unskilled.
(iv) Incremental production and input utilization were phased in
at the rate at which the farmers represer.ted by the two
models are expected to adopt the offered packages at various
levels of technology adoption.
(v) A life of 20 years was assumed in the analysis of the
project. Tractors and vehicles were replaced regularly when
necessary at the end of their respective economic lives t'or
1/ Costs include all project-related costs including trair ng, extension,
technical assistance, etc.



- 46 -
the project, and estimated salvage value has been credited
where appropriate.
(vi)  The without-project situat-ion was considered to be equivalent
Lo the present situation. Although some technological
improvements might occur without the project, it was assumed
that these would be small and have been disregarded.
(vii)  Savings on the use of 'the labor of women and children have
been disregarded.
5.12      Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitLivity of the ERR was tested against
changes in costs anid benefits due to possible reluctance of the farmers to
adopt improved technology.  An increase in costs by 207% without increase in
benefits would reduce the ERR to 17%, while, a decrease in gross revenues by
20% would reduce the ERR to 10%. The risk of a delay in farmer response was
tested by a delay in project benefits bv two years which reduced the ERR to
11%; a three-year delay would reduce it to 8%. On the other hand, a reduction
in labor savings by 50% would reduce the ERR to 296% and to 21% if no labor
savings are assumed. Thus, the project as a whole would be moderately
sensitive to changes in costs but would be seriously affected by a significant
reduction in benefits or an inordinate delay in farmers' adoption of greater
cropping intensification.  The existence of tested and suitable technological
packages, the availability of adequate project-related services and support
from strengthened government institutions involved in project execution make
it unlikely that farmers' interest in project participation will fall short of
the modest levels assumed.
5.13      Tne switching values (percentage change required in costs or
benefits to reduce the ERR to the opportunity cost of capital assumed at 12%)
would be a 22% increase in costs and a 18% decrease in benefits.
5.14      At full deve'opment, which is expected in year 10, about 20% of all
Egyptian farmers cultivating about 25% of total land would benefit from the
project. 1'  Furthermore, the project would also upgrade the processing of
project-reiated seeds, improve the maintenance and repair facilities for
agricultural machinery and equipment, and strengthen the project-related
extensiorn services in the area.  Moreover, technical assistance would be
prov4ded for project activities, and government institutions needed for
project eXecution would be strengthened.  The project would contribute to
compensating for the seasonal shortage of adult maLe labor in the pro,ect area
which would ease continued cropping constrai.nts and permit greater cropping
in.ens-if ica.ion.
C. Risks
Project costs are based on the expected private sector demand for
machtiner- ir !-he project area which was, in turn. estimated oni the basis o'
['  ?ercentages based on number of farmers and area of iand i  '083.



- 47 -
farm models (para. 5.03). The intensification of the farming system assumed
in the models requires the introduction of a new technology within which farm
machinery has an important role to play.  Taking into consideration farniers'
willingness to adopt such technology, the acute shortage of adult male labor,
particularly at critical periods, and the trend towards shorter working hours,
the assuned level of demand for machinery services is conservatively
estimated.  This is also justified by the fact that imports of agricultural
machinery in 1981, the last year for which figures are available, exceeded
LE 52 million. fn view of past trends and future expectations, the risk of:
slackening farmers' demand for machinery services would be minimal.
5.16       Inasmuch as the increased demand for labor cannot be met with tle
existinig labor force, the project is not likely to cause any direct
unemployment in the near Lerm. In the long run, the new technological
packages are expected to create additional employment opportunities involvinlg
higher levels of skill, particularly in the field of machinery operation a1nd
maintenance.
5.17      The project risks, therefore, pertain to farmers' adoption rates,
which are sensitive to such issues as farmer responsiveness, extensioln
effectiveness and government support, and coordination requirements anmonig the
different agencies involved in implementation, which are acceptable in a
development project of this type.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      At tnegotiations, agreeiment was reached regarding the following mairl
poi.nts:
(i)  the procedure outlined in paras. 3.09 and 3.LO, with regard
to qualification and approval of farm machinerv dealers,
would be followed;
(.i)  the procedure for the import of farm machinery, equippment and
spare parts would be streamlined as outlinled in paras. `' 1
.Imd 3.12;
)  the pric ing, of foreign exchange for all approved .tgr icuLutir-:-i
machinery imports under the project would he made uu t.orm 0 is
outlin-d i :i; .;tra. 33;
(iv;  the interes. r;-Ae charged by PBDAC cri ail mnedium-term
agricultura' :n;chiinerv loans would be raised to 13% p3  r
annum,  :xcept that for cooperatives the rate woui(1 be raised
to 10% and i:1creased annually until it reaches parity with
the -ate on :nacL.nerv loans to other subborrowers by J1yv
'988.  ?D)AC .o.id also modify its security requircmneiils to
aceDpt tne t ahne   as collateral without requiring *be
secur':  o.' v ud (?ar- 3.15);



- 48 -
(v) MFCs would not undertake any machinery hire service and would
comply with the principles governing their operations
outlined in Daras. 3.35 and 3.36; and
(vi) the Government would carry out, at regular intervals, the
evaluations referred to in para. 3.35 to determine, in
agreement with the Bank, the need for any change in policy
direction with regard to MFCs.
6.02      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)  a list of qualified dealers approved under the project is
submitted to the Bank, such list to contain a minimum of five
such dealers (para. 3-10);
'ii) a list of machinery already tested and approved for
importation by approved dealers is submitted to the Bank
(para. 3.30);
(iii)  signing of the co-financing agreement providing the funds
referred to in para. 3.42;
(iv)  signing of d subsidiary loan agreement with PBDAC
incorporating the terms and conditions outlined in
para. 3.43; and
(v)  appointment of the Project Executive Manager of the rank of
Director General acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01).
6.03      An evaluation would be carried out of MF-Cs and XFCs that are
completed and in operation to ensure that proper records are maintained and
that, in so far as ary activities have taken place, they are in accordance
with the principles outlined in para. 3.35. Completion of this evaluation,
together with a two-year plan :or constructing, equipping and staffing of
MFTCs and MFCs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the oroject (para. 3.35).
6.04      At the end of tw-o years from loan effectiveness, or the
establishment of 30 MFCs under the project, whichever is earlier, a review of
project implementation would be carried out by the Government as outlined in
para. 4.08.  Further loan disbursement under the proj.ct for the establishment
of additional MFCs -would be determined bv a Bank decision on the basis of its
e:xamination of this review (para 4.08).
6.05      Agreement having been reached on the above conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of 'JS$139.0 million. The Borrower will be the
Arab Republic of _Eypt.



- 49 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Strategy of Agricultural Development in the Eighties. Dr. Youssef Wally,
Minister of Agriculture and Food Security, March 1982.
2.  Egypt, Strategies for Accelerating Agricultural Development; A Report of
the Presidential Mission on Agricultural Development in Egypt, Ministry
of Agriculture of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the USAID in cooperation
with the International Agricultural Development Service of USDA, April
1982.
3. Strategy for Agricultural Development in the Eighties for the Arab
Republic of Egypt by Youssef Wally, Osman El Khoki, Mohomoud Abbas, Earl
0. Ready, The Center for Agricultural and Rural Development, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011; MOA, Republic of Egypt; The FANS Group,
World Bank Project.
4. Labor Migration and the Rural Economy, FAO, World Conference on Agrarian
Reform and Rural Development (WCARRP), Follow--up Programme.
5. Agricultural Price Management in Egypt, World Bank Staff Working Paper
No. 388, April 1980.
6. Arab Republic of Egypt, Selected Issues in Agriculture, Irrigation and
Land Reclamation, Green Cover, May 20, 1983.
7. USAID, Small Farmer Production, Project Amendment, February 9, 1984.
8.  Country Economic Memorandum, Egypt, May 10, 1983.
9. Pro,ect Preparation Related Materials.
10. Governm.ent Price Increase for: Wheat, Sesame, Lentils, Beans.



- 50 -
TABLE 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet
of PBDAC and Its Subsidiary Governorate Banks
(LE '000)
Assets                  1980 /1        1980/81        1981/82         1982/83
Due from Banks                       6,855         20,514           1,720           1,283
Investments                          2,394          4,893           9,667          13,979
Receivables:
Due from Government               41,348        105,148          90,886          86,u55
Other receivables                 43,848         72,969         127,362         117,276
Loans                            177,452        284,882         519,980         605,659
Agricultural Inputs                206,933        285,456         372,617         334,044
Fixed Assets                        15,693         19,367          26,527          30,557
Total Assets                       494,523        793,229       L 148,759       1,189,453
Liabilities
Due to Banks                       193,472        312,727         453,782         390,097
Due to Government                    6,009         28,783          81,128          61,443
Deposits                           124,144        197,100         3U3,701         376,279
Accounts Payable                   111i 810       159,042         189,407         210,184
Subtotal                     435,435        697,652       1,028,018       1,038,003
Capital and Reserves
Capital                             18,641         18,641          18,641          18,641
Provision                           36,768         35,2%6          32,965          34,786
Reserves                            11,865         38,620          42,999          60,245
Previous Loss c/f                  (12,213)             -               -               -
Undistributed Surplus                4,027          3,010          26,135          37,778
Subtotal                       59,088        95,577          120,740         151,450
Total Liabilities and Capital    494,523          793,229       1,148,758       1,189,453
/1 End of financial year changed from December to June.



- 51-          -                                TABLE 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Revenues and Costs of PBDAC and BDAC Activities
(LE '000) /1
1980 /1       1980/81       1981/82 /2       1982/83 /3
Income
Interest received from borrowers /4           15,448         23,062          32,483          52,320
Fertilizers                                   12,241         26,610          39,621          42,447
Supply operations                              4,014         11,501           13,468         17,399
Seeds and grains                                 943          2,108            2,546          2,612
Packaging materials                              878          5,603            7,062          6,103
Feeds & oilcakes                               1,293          5,356            5,132          4,712
Insecticides                                   3,714         14,648          15,576         14,374
Cooperative marketing                            198          1,31b            1,657          1,472
Crops protection                                 259            607            1,011            859
Spare parts: pest control machinery              460          1,112            1,426          1,483
Banking operations                             2,816         10,105           13,938         22,272
Interest paid by Government                        -         40,014          53,611         59,888
Subtotal                                 42,264        142,044         187,531        225,940
General Expenses
Salaries and wages                            15,628         40,947          59,968          66,489
Water, electricity & stationary                  327             718             913          1,037
Transportation & printing supplies             1,760          4,734            6,524          6,907
Interest & finance charges                     7,256         26,946          46,765         6U,325
Depreciation                                     971          1,147            1,528          1,831
Provisions                                     2,205          7,560           3,094           3,736
Other-                                           904          1,386            1,257          1,262
Subtotal                                 28,551         83,438         120,049        141,587
Gross Operating Profit                        13,713         58,606          67,482          84,353
Other Revenue .et uL Expenses                  5,279          7,467            3,058          4,038
Net Profit before Tax                         18,992         66,073          70,540         88,391
Income Taxes                                   5,923         21X224          26,943         32,846
Np-  Profit after Taxes                       13,069         44,849          43,597          55,545
Net Revenue Relating to Previous Years         8,033         14,987            9,404          9,066
Surplus                                       21,102         59,836          53,001         64,611
Distribution of Surplus                       17,075         56,826          21,866          26,833
Undistributed Surplus                          4,027          3,010          26,135          37,778 /5
/1 Due to change of financial year, 1980 covers only a period of 6 months.
/2 Some changes in contents of several accounts have taken place from year 1981.
75 Figures are before making adjustments requested by auditors.
/4 Concerns short-term and development loans; includes also a commission for machinery
distribution (about LE 2.5 million in 1982/83).
/5 Government's share.



- 52-TABLE 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios ov PBDAC Grouo
(LE '000)
Accounting Information                                           T980 /I    1980/81        1981/82      1982/8L Lu
Assets                                                          494.5        793.2        1,148.7        1.189.4
Loans to farmers                                                177.4        284.8          519.9          6D5.7
Debts (liabilities less own capital)                            441.9        713.2       1.061.2         1.102.2
-- of which deposits                                            124.1        197.1         303.7           376.3
Share and reserve capital. provision for doubtful debts          51.2         77.9           80.6           87.2
-- of which provision for doubtful debts                         20.7          20.7          19.0           25.6
Income LI                                                        SS.8        164.6          200.1          239.3
-- of which interest on lending /11                              1S.S         23.9           33.5           54.5
Expenditure aI                                                   34.0        104.8          147.1          174.8
-- of which administrative expenses L4                           15.6         40.9           59.9           66.4
Net Surplus L5                                                   21.1          S9.8          53.0           64.6
Own capital Li                                                   52.6         80.0           87.6           87.2
Overdues total QZ                                                10.7          7.3            5.7
Overdues over 2 years                                             5.3           -             0.4
Annual repayment requirement                                    170.6        207.6          262.5
Performance Ratios
Own capital to assets (Z)                                       1:9         1:10          1:13            1:13
Deposits to loans outstanding (%)                                70.1         69.4           58.5           62.0
Overdues over 2 years to own capital (tI                         10.0          -              0.5
Debts to equity (own capital)                                     8.4:1        8.9:1         12.1:1         12.6:1
Net surplus to income (%)                                        38.0         46.5           26.5           27.0
Net surplus as return on share & reserve capital (%)             82.8 a       76.7           65.4           74.1
Bad debt reserve to overdues (w)                                193.5        283.6          333.3
Overdues to annual repayment requirement (X)                      6.3          3.S            2.2
Administrative expenses to loans outstanding a                   17.6 a2      14.3           11.5           10.9
LI  End of financial year changed fron December to June (income and expenditure for 1/2 year only).
/2  Accounting income activity wise (not deducting general indirect expenditure). net profit from
subsidiary banks. net income relating to previous year dividends. interest payment by Ninistry of
Finance on farmers' loans. and other revenues. Amount includes on item banking operations
LE 22 million in 1982/83 which is mainly internal transfer tncome.
i]  General indirect expenses plus other expenditure and taxes.
L Salaries and wages.
L Before distribution of dividend.
/a  Share capital, reserves. provision for doubtful debts and part of net profit transferred to reserves.
QZ  At end of Decenber.
LB  Adninistrative expenses related to agricultural credit are about one-third to one-half of above.
/2  Item multiplied by 2 (Note 1).
/10  Figures are before adjustments requested by auditors.
1ii  TntcTes; from short-term credit development credit less machinery sales commission and 10 of banking
operations.



- 53 -                                            TABLE 4
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTU2AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
ILE '0001                      (USS1 'OCI                        2 Total
local    Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign   Total    EXchange    Costs
A. DIRECT PROCUCTION SUPPORT
INCREMENTAL TAR" INPUTS                  37.022. 7  37.225-5  74.248. 2   29. 518. 2  29. 780 4  59. 398.5      50        21
SEED PRODUCTION AND RESEARCH               2.068. I  2.021.    4. 089 8    1554.5   1.617.3   3.27l. 8          49         1
EXTENSION AND TRAINING                    13.574.2   2. 144.5  15.818.7   10.939.3   1715.77  17.655. 0          14        4
PRIVATE SECTOR AGR MACHINERY              53. 854. I 85, 02. 5 139. 456 5   43. 083. 3  53 482. 0 111. 55.2 7I            39
Sub-Total DIRECT PRODUCTION SUPPORT         105519. 1 125,994.2 233.513.3   85.295.3 101.595. 3 186890.5           54       56
U. RESEARCH AND TESTING                       3.618. 8   328. 4   7.447.3    2.895. 1  3.052. 8   5.957.8           s         2
C. DEMONSTRATIONS                            20.582.3  12. 206. 3  32. 888. 5   IE. 545. 8   9. 755. 1 25. 310. 9   37        9
D. NORKSHOPS AND SPAREPARIS                  28.834.3  42. 118. 3  70.952.5   23. 07. 5  33.594.5  55. 767. 1     59        70
E. IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       1 550.    5, 741. 4   8,292.0    1 240.5 S   393.    5 533. b          l        2
botal BASELINE COSTS                          151.305.2 191.888 6 353. 193.8  :29.044. 1 t53. 510.9 282.555.0        54       100
Physical Contirjercies                         191.5      54. 9     245.4      153.2       43-9     197.2         22         0
Price Contingencies                         63,823.2  31,443.4  95, 255    51 058. 5  25. 154 7  7, 213. 3        33        27
Total PROJECT COSTS                           225 319. 9 223,385.9 448. 70.8  140. 255. 9 178. 709.5 358. 9554       50       127
Apri l 2. 1985  17: 30



- 54-                                                TABLE 5
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT
Project Compoonents by Year
lIE '000)
Base Costs                         Total
1985     1986       1987      1988         tE     1USS ' 0001
A. DIRECT PRODUCTION SUPPORT
INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS                   5.944. 2  13. 395. 3  21. 928 9  32.976. 7   74. 248.2   59. 398.6
SEED PROOUCTION AND RESEARCH              2.039.4   1 559. 2      245-5     245.6    4,089.8    3.271. 8
EXTENSION AND TRAINING                    2. 789. 4   4.083. 1  4. 852 1   4.094. 2   15.8118 7   12. 655. 
PRIVATE SECTOR AGR MACHINERY             34. 118. 0  34 515. 4  35. 112. 9  35 610. 3  139.456.6  t11,555.2
Sub-Total DIRECT PRODUCTION SUPPORT          44.891-1  53 556- 1 62. 139. 4  72.926.7  233.513.3  186.890. 
B. RESEARCH AND TESTING                       3.508.6   2.820. 2     509. 2     509.2    7.447 3    S. 957. 8
C. DEMONSTRATIONS                             7. 131. 8   8.563. 2  12.397. 1   4.796 6   32.888. 6   25. 310. 9
D. MORKSHOPS AND SPAREPARTS                  18. 614 7  18. 954. 3  18. 006. 5  15. 375. 8   70. 952 6   55. 757. 1
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       2 291. 9   2. 607 9   2 148. 5   1 243. 6    B 292. 0    6, 33. 
Total BASELINE COSTS                           75.538. 1 85.601. 7  95. 201. 0  94.852. 9  353. 193 8  282.555.0
Physical Contingencies                         138.9      62.5       45. 0         -      246 4       197-2
Price Contingencies                         5 760. 9  16. 190. 4  30,055.3  43 249. 9   95 266. 6   76,213.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                           82.438,0 102,854. 7 125 311. 3 13B. 102. 8  448. 70' S  358,965.4
Taxes                                        1,758.9   2.079.3   2.364. 9   2.310. 5    8.513. 6    6.810. 9
Foreign Exchange                           47,244.2  53,807.2  60. 289. 4  62.046.1  223.386.9  178 709 5
April 2. 1985 17:30



- 55 -                                               TABLE 6
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAt DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOIMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
ILE '0001                        fUSS '000)                         x Total
--- --  ---------------------------      Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign   Total          Incal    Foreign   Total       Exchange    Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL HORKS                                          3, 830 9    1 098. 1   4. 929.0    3.064. 7    878. 5   3. 943. 2         22         1
B. MACHINERY                                           54. 104.3  99, 081. 4 153. 185. 7   43. 283.5  79. 265. 1 122. 548. 6      65        43
C. EQUIPMENT                                            1, 496. 0   3.859.7   5,355.7    1, 195. 8   3. 07. 7   4. 284. 6         72         2
D. SPARE PARTS                                         27, 700. 0  41. 550. 0  E9. 249. 9   22. 160.0  33. 240. 0  55. 399. 9     60       20
E. VEHICLES                                             1. 292. 0   3.333.4   4.6 25. 4    1. 033. 6   2. 6S5. 7   3. 700. 3      72         1
F. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                       235.8       12. 1     247.9       188.6         9.7     198 3            5        0
G. INCR. FARM INPUTS                                   37, 022.7  37,225.5  74.248 2   29. 618. 2  29, 780. 4  59. 398. 6         SO       21
U. EXTENSION ANO TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING                                    1,514.2          -   1,514. 2    1.2 1 1 4         -   1. 211.4           -         0
2. FEtLONSRIPS                                          25. 5     823.7      349.2        20 4      658.9      679. 3         97         0
Stb-Total EXTENSION AND TRAINING                        1,539. 7     823- 7   2.363. 4    1. 231. 7    65.9   1.890 7             35         1
L  CONSULTANT ASSISTANCE                                  388-5   4.904-9   5.293.3         310.8   3,923.9   4,234 7            93          1
J. SEED STUDY, LOCAL COST                                  27.2           -      27 2        21 7           -      21.7            -        0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   127, 637. 1 191. 8E8- 6 319. 525 6  102. 109. 7 153. 510 9 255. 620. 5      60        90
11. RECURRENT COSTS
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                   1 750. 4          -   1.750.4    1 400. 3           -   1 400. 3           -        0
INCREMENTAL STAFF                                      6 430. 6         -   6, 430. 6    5. 144. 5             5, 144. 5                   2
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST                            25. 487. 1         -  25. 487. 1   20. 389. 7       -  20. 389. 7          -         7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     33. 658. 7     -   -  33 668. 1   26. 934. 5         -  26.934.5            -        10
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      161, 305.2 131 ,88. 6 353. 193.8  129,044 1 153,510.9 282.555.0             54       100
Physical Contingencies                                      79h 5      54. 9     245.4        153. 2     43 9       197 2          22         0
Price Contingencies                                     63,823.2  31.443.4  95.266.6   5.o058 5  25. 154 7  16.213.3 333                    27
Totat PROJECT COSTS                                       225.319.9 223,386.9 448,706.8  180,255. 9 178.709. 5 358,965.4              50       127
A==p==== = 2. 1985  1 7= ==3== 0                                     -=-= 
Jkpr i   2. 1985  17:30



- 56 -                                             TABLE 7
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECI
Sunerway Accounts by Yea.
ItE '000'
Base Costs                       Foreign Exchange
1985      1986       1987      1988      Total        1      A4ount
=   =        =   = =   =     =   = =   =      = -= -   -- --   - -==--   = =  
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIl WORKS                                         7. 778. 3   1. 250. 6   900.0          -   4.929. 0   22.3    1. 098. I
B. MACHiNERY                                          40, 526. 8  39. 730. 8  39. 307 5  33. 620. 6 153. 85l7   64. 7   99. 081. 4
C. EQUiPMENT                                             623.3   2.523.3   1. 122, 6   1. 085. 6   S. 355. 7   72. 1    3,859.7
o  SPARE PARTS                                        18. 362. 8  18. 057.8  17. 676.5  15. 152.5  69. 249.9   60.0   41, 550. 0
E  VEHICIES                                            1. 852 6   1. 473. 4   1.789 t         -   4, 625. 4   72. 1    3.333. 4
F. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                       85. 1      78. 3      83.5          -     247.9    4. 9         12 1
G. INCR. FARM INPUTS                                   5.944.2  13. 398. 3  21. 928.9  32. 975. 7  74.248.2   50. 1   37. 225. 5
H. EXTENSION AND TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING                                    287. 1     438.5      417 7      370.8   1.514 2    0.0           0 0
2. FELLOWSHIPS                                       298.1       298 I     252 9           -     849.7   97.0        873.7
Sub-Total EXTENSION AND TRAINING                         585.3      7365 7     670.6      370.8   2. 353.4   34.9       823.7
1. CONSULTANT ASSiSTANCE                              1.871. I   1.932 3   3.280. 5      709.5   5.293.3   92.7    4.904 9
J. SEED STUDY. LOCAL COST                                 13. 6      13 6          -          -       27. 2    0 0        0 0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   72.554. t  79. 195. ' 84,259.4  83.4156  319,525 6   60. 1  t19,888.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                   215 3       398. 1    56585      568 5   1.750.4    0 0           0.0
INCREMENTAL STAFF                                      681. 3   1.362. 6   2. 177 7   2,209.0   6. 430. 6    0. 0        0.0
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST                           2, 987. 4   5. 545. 8   8. 195.4   85 658 4  25. 487. 1    0. 0     0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     3. 884. 0   7.40.6   10. g4 l    11, 436. 0  33. 68. 1    0. 0      0. 0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      76.538. 1  86. 601. 7  95.201.0  94.852.9 353.193.8   54. 3  191. 888. 5
Physical Contingencies                                    138. 9      52. 5      45.0          -      245, 4   22.3       54.9
Pr-ice Contingencies                                    5,760 9  1. 190. 4  30. 065. 3  43,249.9  95,266.    33.0   31.443,4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       82. 438. 0 102. 854. 7 125.311.3 138. 102. 8 448. 705. 8   49. 8  223.385.9
Taxes                                                   1.75B.9   2.079.3   2,364.9   2.310.5   S.513.6    0 0             0.0
Foreign E.change                                      47. 244. 2  53. 807. 2  50. 289 4  62, 045. 1 223. 386 9    0. 0     0. 0
april 2. 1985  17:30



EGYPr
SECOND AGRICULTURAL  DEVEIOPMENI PROJECT
Svrury  Accounts by Year
Totals  Including Contingencies                             Totals Including Contingencies
IIE '0001                                                   1USS 'OO01
1985       1986        1987        1988       total          1985       ;986       1987         1988       total
1. INVESIMENT COSTS
A. CIVIt WORKS                                                3. 191.2    1, 676. 7    1,159. 5                 6- 227. 4   2,553.0   1, 341. 3    1, 087.6                    981. 9
B. MACHINERY                                                 43. 384.0   46. 504. 4  50. 469.0   47. 414.6  187. 772.0   34, 707. 2 37. 203 5  40, 375 2  37. 931.7  ISO, 217.6
C. EQUIPENEN                                                     664.0    2. 922. 7    1, 421. 2    1. 502. 6   6,5 10. 5     531. 2  2, 338.2    1. 137. 0    1, 202. 0   5. 208. 4
D. SPARE PARTS                                               19. 719.9   21. 277.2   22, 893. 1  21, 530. 7  85, 420. 8   15, 775.9  17, 021. 7  18. 314.5   17. 224. 5  68. 336. 7
E. VEHICLES                                                   1, 984.5    1, 706. 6    1, 632. 4                5, 323.5    1. 587. 5   1. l5B  3    1, 305.9               4, 258. 8
F. OFFICE EQUIPIENI                                               96. I      100. 1       120, 3                  316.5         76.9       80.0        96. 2                   253.2
G. INCR. FARM INPUTS                                          6. 439,0   16. 062.9   29, 053.2  48, 142.9   99, 698. O    . 15 1. 2 12, 850. 3  23, 242,5   38, 514. 4  79. 758. 4
H. EXTENSION AND TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING                                           321. 6       564. 4      607. 2       603. 7   2, 096. 9      257. 2     451. 6       485. 8      483. 0    1. 677. 6
2. FELLOWSHIPS                                               311.7       331.3        302.8                    945.8      249.4       265.0       242.2                    756.6
Sutb-otal EXTENSION AND TRAINING                                 633. 3      895. 7      910.0        603.7   3, 042. 7       506. 6      716.6       728.0       483.0    2, 434. 2                                       J
1. CONSULTANT ASSISTANCE                                      1, 960.8    2. 157.9    1, 547.9       290. I   S, 956. 6    1. 568. 6   1. 726. 3    1, 238.3      232. 1   4, 765.3
J. SEED STUDY, LOCAL COST                                         15.2         17.5                                32. 7        12. 2      14. 0                                26. 2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           78.088.1  93,321.5  109,406.5  1i9,484.6 400,300.7   62,470.5  74,657.2   87,525.2   95,587.7 320,240.5
11. RECURRENT CoSTS
... ... ........ -.
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE                           241.1        512.5       826.3       925.5    2,505.4         192.9      410.0        661. 1      740 4   2,004.3
INCREMENTAL STAFF                                              763.0    I. 753.8    3, 165.5    3, 696. 4    9, 278. 8       610.4   1, 403. 1   2, 532.4    2, 87?. t   1. 423.0
INCREMENTAL OPERATING  COST                                  3. 345. 8    7. 266.9   11, 912.9   14. 096. 3  36. 621. 9   2. 676. 6  5, t13. 5   9, 530. 3   11, 277.0   29,297.5
........... .... ....... .... ...........    .........   ............    .....   ........    .  .... ........ . ...   ..........    ........   ...........    .........   ............ *
Total RECURRENT CoSts                                             4, 349 9   9. 533.2   15, 904.8  A18 618. 2  48, 406. 1   3. 479. 9  7, 626.5   12, 723. 8   t4,894.6   38.724 9
Total PROJECI COSTS                                               82. 438. 0 102, 854. 7 ;25, 311. 3 138, 102. 8 448. 706. 8  65. 950. 4 82, 283. 7 ;00, 249.0 IOl, 482. 3 358, 965. 4
April 2,  1985   17:30
Ct



;
-     -o         -  0
-.  0  -   r-a                            t0t0flW    -
.0          -.'  -  --            .&
nw    aS
a *-C   fin             C'.  ...m-0-C.nfl.a
O   flu.n  ma            0-.   -
7      o.e = c. i-:Im""0m
as
0t3t Ofl            -  ama--  U.
-4                                as -a.xa,
o           4.-.o  fla*.n  0  CUtO  .-.ouZ
-- tan, C-
-o    - .
-     -             -=   s-ala-
*     -             -
C-'           -a      -a
a              -      . C,
-  a           a
:s
*                                                .0.-
-- --      .     .                        -I.'  .fl
.J. .        a.   - . -         -           "Sr    C   a-..
-  - -  .        -     -   -       .            --U.      nfl
* 0.J..a...t  -.a-.J       0-   ala..                     *0   .0   a-
*    .0   ..    . -  I-..    .  I-..              I-.     -' nina    o  on
a:                             :::t:
a.0.t...ta  a...a      a.                     a       *.aaa*    0-
t...aot  ala-         '":      .                                  so
*     ..,                          I                      ::,,
-  *a*  -3.           .r.                     a       *.-.-       '0
* lflb..W,UO'30..Lfll     0.               cc, Cam        '-a
-3.0-3--a- .00'.,    0-        .          a-ac       --
t3..O,300.t.%3i-3      0                 00  
* aC..a..J.-3mL.,..Jc..0   a.
Cot-ca  -30.0           -.  1.1               Ia        .0K
.a,.  . .3. c..c.. . .rc,-.    .0 *  .3.aatfltJ't..a  ., 0
C                      aa.aalaa'.3    *. -
* .am-.. mom... -ma        a-              410am -.3-a C
* 00-C . 0000 .000         0  000 . 00   000000W          -. me - CO
*     ..  -      -                                         *.  -   -  7
* oo--.--o--a.ooo          -.000.00    0000000                  'C
*     ..  .      .           ,     .                          .0-
:
mc-. a . cOmo .000      O - 000. 00    OCOOCOm         * C - -
00...J..-OaO.O00        a.000.00    CoCCOCa
63'IflV1



- 59 -
TABLE 10
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Table
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Direct
ICB      LCB   Purchase   Other   N.A.   Total Cost
Civil Works                            5.0                                    5.0
Machinery                142.2  /1              8.0                         150.2
(83.2)                (8.0)                       (91.2)
Equipment                  5.2  /1                                            5.2
(3.6)                                             (3.6)
Spare Parts               68.3 J1                                            68.3
(38.4)                                            (38.4)
Vehicles                   4.3                                                4.3
(1.0)                                             (1.0)
Office Equipment                                0.2                           0.2
Inc. Farm Inputs          36.1                 43.7                          79.8
Extension & Training                            2.5                           2.5
Consultants, etc.                                         4.8                 4.8
(4.8)               (4.8)
Operating Costs          ____38.7                                            38.7
Total                  256.1         5.0     54.4       4.8    38.7       359.0
(126.2)                (8.0)    (4.8)             (139.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
/l Imported by dealers following international advertising.



- 60 -                               TABLE 11
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     Disbursements
and Quarters                            Quarterly               Cumulative
-(US$ million)----------
1985/86:  1st                                    0.8
2nd                                   1.3
3rd                                   2.4
4th                                   2.4                     6.9
1986/87:  1st                                    4.8
Znd                                   5.3
3rd                                   6.0
4th                                   6.0                    29.0
1987/88:  1st                                    7.0
2nd                                   7.0
3rd                                   9.0
4th                                   9.0                    61.0
1988/89:  1st                                    9.0
2nd                                   9.0
3rd                                   9.0
4th                                   9.0                    97.0
1989/90:  1st                                    8.5
2nd                                   8.5
3rd                                   8.0
4th                                   7.0                  129.0
1990/91:  1st                                   4.0
2nd                                   3.0
3rd                                   2.u
4th                                   1.0                  139.0



- 61 -                                                        TABLE 12
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPt
FlINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF COMMERCIAL PRIVATE OPERATOQ
It 1000
I       2      3-h        7       a        9   10-1t
BENEFITS /a
GROSS PEVENUF fRON CUSTOM M0RKr /b    17 30   28. 70   41-40   41.40   47.40   41 40   41.40
TOTAL BENEFITS                           12 30   28 70   41 40   41.40   41 40   41 40   41. 40
COSTS
INVESTMENTS Ic
3 TRACTORS                               10.00   20. 00        -       -   10.00   20. 00
IHPtEMENTS                               15.00   14.00         -   15.00   14 00
CASH OP. COSTS
HIRED LABOR /d                            4 40    8.70    5.10    810    a70    S 70    8.70
OTHER OP. COSTS /1                        500   10. 00   1000   1000    10 0    1000   30 00
ADPi. COSTS                               I 50    1 ,0     I 90    1 50    1 ID    I N0    I So
TOTAL COSTS                             359 0   54 20   20  0   352 20   44 20   402.0   20 70
NET BENEFIT                             -23 G0   25 B0   21 20    5-720    7 R0D    I        20 71 20
ONN LABOR If                              I AO    1 8D     1 30    1. 80    I H0    1. R0    I80
INCREMENTAL NET HENEFIT                -25.40  -27 30   19 40    4.40   -4 GD   -0 10 '9. 40
IRRI                                    70 44   70. 44   20.44   20. 44   20 44   20.44   20 44
ia  IN ACTUAL [11344 PRICES FOR THE TRACTORS AND PLOW. FOR OTHER MACHINERY
THE OPERATING COST PLt'S DEPRECIATION. TNTEREST COST AND 30: PRflF.IT !ARGIN.
:'b  REVEN-E ESTIMATES AT 30% FOR THE FIRST YFAR.
AFTER THAT 70: AND I0C:. BASED 0.R THE FO.LLOWING ANMUAL USAGE AND RATES:
EQUPIPMENT             ASNTUAL USAGE (HOUIRS)          RATE. HOLUR
TRACTOR A.ND TRAILER            hOO                            8. 12
TRACTOR AND PLOW                475                            7.59
TRACTOR AND LEVELLER            900                           *7.6
THRESHER WIMOWER                b00                            '4.28
4OWER                           100                           'l._
REAPER                          250                            2.18
-   ANNEX 5. TABLE 32.
Id  AT THE RATE OF LE 5-3.5iDAY; 3 LABORERS.
i   ANNEX 5. TABLE  32.
!f  AT I dE PATE OrF iE  S DAY.
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPY A'S A 
PRFSENT              of PRESEN,1T          INTEPNAt
VALIIt AT 3CC         COSTS AT DEC         RATE oF
iEST CASES    TESI CASE VARIAIW NS                   OF 13.501             0i 13 5C0             RETURN
BASE  S4E                                                     11. 0                 6.0:            2. 41
TEST CASE  1 I. I                 DOWN 10                     -R 5                 -4 E1              7. rs
TEST CASE  2  B                    CDOWN 20G                  28. 0               -15 2?             -8. 5:
TEST CASE  3  C. I                UP   502                    -5 2                 -3 11            TO. ox
TEST CASE  4  C 2                 UP   202                     3.9                   ??              15 8A?



- 62 -                                                       TABLE 13
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF LaRGE SIZE OPERATOR OR MECHIANIZED FARMERS COOPERATIVE
LE 1000
1       2      3-6       7        8       9   10-11
RATE OF RETURN
INFLOW
Gross Revenue fro. Machinery Opers. /a    50.00  117.00  17. 00  1S7 00  167 00  167.00  167. 00
Subsidies /b                                  2.00    4 00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00
Other revenue Ic                              2.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00
TOTAL INFLOW                                 54.00  125.00  175. 00  175. 00  175 00  175.00  175.00
OUTFLOW
Machinery Oper. Costs /d                     20.00   39.00   39.00   39 00   39.00   39.00   39 00
Staff Costs 1.                               20.00   39.00   39.00   39.00   39.00   39.00   39.00
Gen. I Administration If                      5.00   10.00   10.00   1 t.00   10.00   10.00   '0.00
Building Mainten. /g                          0.80    0.80    0.80    0 80    0.80    0. O    0.80
Investment in Land and But Idings            40.00        -        -        -       -        -       -
Investmen:s in Machinery lh                 114. 50  114.50        -   64. 00  120.00   53.00        -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                               200.30  203.30   88.80  152 80  208.80  141.80   88.80
NET SENEFIF BEFORE FINANCING               -146. 30  -78.30   86 20   22.20  -33.80   33 20   85.20
IRRI                                         22.54   71. S4   21. 54   71. S    21. 54   21.54   21 54
:a Investmencs are expected to be made in two .-ears. but full scale
operations (and revenues) be reached in three years (30-. 70t. 1000 ).  Details of revenues
in Annex 5. Table 33 (-achinery operating costs plus 30% surplus margin).
/b Managers salarv (LE 120/month) not available for private operator.
Ic  Including income on banking. investments. etc.  Estimation.
Id  Annex 5. Table 25 (fuel. lubricants. service, repair. mlscellan-rus).
le Annex 5. Table 33.
25- of Staff Costs.
R  2  of Investments in Buildings.
;h  Annex 5. Table 32.  For Cooperatives 1-3: less due to relaxation of customs duties.
SENSITIV:TY TESTS
XPV AS A
PRESENT              OF PRESENT            INTERNAL
VALUE AT OCC         COSTS AT DCC          RATE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                  OF 13.50:             OF 13T50%             RETURN
BASE CASE                                                     05                   7. 9%           21t52
TEST CASE  l B. !                DOWN 20%
C 2               UP   1000t               -2101. 1               -75-8:        No Intornal Rate oF Rnturn Exists
TEST CASE  2  C I                UP   10%                    40. 5                 5. II           18. 92
TEST CASE  3  C. 6               UP   10                    32.8                  4. I            17.7%
TEST CASE  4  C.S                flOw" 105                   88.2                 19S!             25. 8
TEST CASE  5  8.1                LAG    I YEARS             -33.2                 -4. 32           11 DX



- 63 -                                                   TABLE 14
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULIURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FRR Analysis of a Farnnr/Iachinery Operator with 10 Feddans of Rice
in 1983/84 prices. LE
1        2      3-7         a     9-10        11    12-14       15
Mechanized Method with the Project
BENEFITS /a
Revenue from rice lb                    3312.00  3312.00  3312.00  3312.00  3312.00  3312.00  3312.00  33:2.00
Revenue  fron straw Ic                   633.00   633.00   633.00   633.00   533.00   633.00   633.00  -S33.00
Custom work
- Harvestor /d                         4250.00  4260. 00  4250.00  4260.00  4260 00  4260.00  4260. 00  4260. 00
Renting of Tractor /e                   1080.00  2520. 00  3600. 00  3600.00  300.00  3600. 00  3600. 00  3600. 00
Salvase vaIlu                                 -        -         -        -         -        -        -    5.00
Net revtnue from mixed cropping If    2600.00  2500.00  2500.00  2600.00  260SC  . 00  2600.00  2600. 00  2600.00
TOTAL BENEFiTS                         11885.00 13325.00 14405.00 14405.t 14405 00 14405.00 14405.00 144.0.00
Investments Ig                        24000.00         -         - 14000.00        - 10800.00
Casts for Rice Farming
CASH OPERATING COSTS
Land preparations 1h                     120.00   120.00   120.00   t20.00   120-00   120-00   120.00   120.00
Transplanting /i                        1090.00  1090.00  1090.00  1090.00  1090.00  1OO.o00  1090.00  1090.00
Farm inputs Ij                          244.00   244.00   244.00   744.00   244.00   244.00   244.00   244.00
Mainternnce  variable
costs of harestor 1k                    1650.00  1550.00  1650.00  1550.00  1550.00  1650.00  1550.00  550.00
Maintenance and V.C. of Tractor  lI    615 00  1436.00  2052.00  2052.00  2052.00  2052.00  2052.00  2052.00
TOTAL CaSH OPERATING
COSTS                                   3719.00  4540.00  5156.00  5156.00  5155.00  5156.00  5156.00  51SF 00
Net Benefit with investment           -15834 00  8785.00  9249.00 -4751.00  9249.00 -1551.00  9249.00  9254.00
Net Benefit without investment          2270.00  2270-00  2270.00  2270.00  2270.00  2270.00  2270.00  2270.00
Incree   net benefit                 -18104.00  6515.00  6979.00 -7021.00  6979.00 -3821.00   979. 00  6984.00
IRRi                                      32.50    32.50    32.50    32.50    32.50    32.50    32. 50    32.50
/a  The farmer is assumed to have 15 feddan  of land. of which 5 feddan  is used to mixed
cropping and IC feddan for rice.
lb  The average rice productior. in Egypt in 1982 was 2.4 tons/feddan.  The harvester would
increase this bv 5  by reducing the gra'n losses.  The price paid to the farmer was
LE 138/tan.
/c  Revenue from straw would go down by 20: as the result of using a harvester.
/d  Average utilisation estimated at 25 days/year or about 70 feddan.  Of this 60 feddan
would be custom contracting at the charge of LE 71/feddan (Project File. Annex 3.
Table 5).
ie  600 hours/year at LE 6/hour.
/f  Project File. Annex 7 (farm budget).
/g  J.F. Combine with local cractor.  Replacement of tractor in year 7 and combine in
year 10.
/h  See table "without."
/i  See table "without."
/J  See table "without."
k  16: annuallv.
j1  Project File, Annex 5, Table 25.
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPV AS A S
PRESENT             OF PRESENT           INTERNAL
VALUE AT OCC        COSTS AT OCC         RATE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                 OF 13.501            CF 13.502            RETURN
BASE CASE                                                13735.7               18.6:            32.5:
TEST CASE  I S. I               DOMN IOS                11649.5                15.85            29. 61
TEST CASE  2  B 2               DOWN  20:               12938.2                17.5-            31 4S
TEST CASE  3  8. 3              DONN 201                 8369.0                11. 3S           25.07.
TEST CASE  4  C. I              UP   1O2                10844.6                14. 1S           27. 2
TEST CASE  5  B. 3              LaG    I YEARS          10544.0                14.3:            25. 01



- 64-                                                      TABLE 15
ARAB JEPUHBIC OF EGYPT
FINANCJAL ANALYSIS OF HECHANIZED FARMING CENTER
LE 1000
LE
1       2     3-7       8        9      10       1t
CASH FLON PROJECTIONS
Gross Revenus From Machinery  emonstrations /a        53.0   124. 0   177.0   177.0   17. 0   177. 0   177.0
OTHER REVENUE /b                                       2 0      3 0     4.0     4 0      4.0     4.0     4. 0
RESIDUAL VALUE                                           -        -       -       -        -       -    50.0
GOE Contribution for Tr. S Ext.                      216.0   180.0        -   127.0    91.0        -       -
TOTAL INFLOII                                        271. 0   287.0   181.0  308.0   272. 0   181. 0   231.0
OUTFtON
Machinery Operat ing Costs /c                         22.0    44. 0    44.0     4.40    44. 0    44.0    44. 0
Vehicle Operating Costs Id                             3 0      6.0     S.0       0      6. 0    5.. 0   5.0
Staff Costs /1                                        40.0    82.0    82.0    82.0    82.0    82.0    82.0
General S Adninistratian /f                            S 0    10. 0    100    10.0    10-0    1O.0    10.0
Building Maintenance /g                                1.0      1.8      .      1 8      1.8     1.8     1.8
INVESrMENT IN THE CENTER 1h                           36. 0       -       -       -       -
INVESTMENT JN MACHINERY /i                           128. 0   128. 0      -   128.0   128.0        -       -
INVESTMENT IN VEHICLES /j                             36 0        -       -    35.0       -        -       -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                        271.0   271.8   143.5   307.8   271.8   143.8   143.8
NET BENEFIT BEFORc FINANCING                             -    15. 2    37.2     0. 2     0 2    37.2    87 2
la  Investments are expected to be made in two years. but full scale of revenues to be
reacl.er  in trirce vears (33:, 66%, 1001).  Details of revenues In Annex 5. Table 26
(machinerv and vzhbicle operating costs pius 30%).
/b  Includir.g income from banking investments. etc.
Ic  Annex 5. Table 25 (fuel, lubricants. driver wages. repair. miscellaneous).
/d  Ainex 5. Table 25.
/e  Annex 5. Table 28. and Annex 3. Table 4.  This consisc of LE 36.000/year for
operational staff and LE 46.000/year for extension staff incentives.
/f  IO  of staff costs. plus LE 2,000 for extension materials.
/g  5- of investment in the Center (C.6).
/h  Lad, cIvil works, office and other equipment.
/i  Investments are expected to be made in two years. but full scale of revenues to be
reached in three years (33:. 66:. 100%).



- 65 -                                                       TABLE 16
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURtAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1         2         3          4         5         S          7         8          9     10-20
A. INPUTS
SEEDS                            -1000002  -1915594  -3053206  -4624261  -6213731  -7287043  -W138460  -8141444  -8124624  -8091378
FERTILIZERS
NITROGENOUS                       2007225   4132911   6685481  10051565  13761823  15954310  18031557  18197652  18216831  18373213
PHOSPH1OROUS                      656780   1509040   2481330   3730766   5168850   5916321   6771732   5896863   6922877   7069179
POTASSIU                            IC1431    354128    584139    875927   1215208   1384181   1535591   1626901   5161901   1648212
SUB TOTAL                         2819339   5996079   9750950  14698258  20145881 23254812  25388880  26711426  26756609  2709D004
AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
PESTICIDES                        1517!35   3572484   5873805   8818671  12203932  13942439  15937047  16225000  16233157  16524425
FUNGICIDES                          81167    197833    326333    489333    679000    773333    885833    903333    903333    920833
HERBICIDES                         1072595   2357580   3as9235   5808534   7974203   9175731  10423500  10562422  10562422  10591622
FOLIAR SPRAY                       589224   1436113   2358917   3552174   4928897   5613735   5430410  6557439   6557439  6554458
INOCULENTS                           31S8       7723     12740      19103     26510     30192      34583     35267     35267      3599C
SULB TOTAI                        3253290   7581733  12441032  18587915  25812542  29535430  33711373  34283461  34291628  34357298
FERIILIZERS * ASRt. CHEMICALS    6082529  13577812  22191982  33385173  45958423  52791242  60100253  60994887  6;048237  51947902
ORGANIC MANURES                    212722    518482    855254   1282445   1779523   2026752   2321592   2367455   2367456   2413320
TOTAL                             6295351  14096294  23047236  34565518  47737945  54817994  62421845  63362343  63415693  54361222
MA4HINERY USE                    13443632  32552907  53745800  80214294 11182888 127470795 145203549 1491796S9 149337630 152467054
LABOR USE                        -2152948  -5597975  -9263537 -13851386 -19224415 -21825234 -25047981 -25573588 -25501580 -25973043
DRAFT ANIMAL USE                   555113   1138509   1858826   2805903   3870829   4466414   5092683   5170425   5210079   5318704
FIXED COSTS                        281548   656482   1132377   1697987   2355130   2653457   3073842   3134567   3134557   3195292
MARKETING COSTS                     42637      91412    147669    223106    304026    351373    392871    396962    396413    398990
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS            17465431  41052035  67516165 101524261 140712673 160677766 183998349 187528954 187858178 191676841
INVESTMENTS                      66462000  69443000  59536000  57986000           -          -         -         -          -         -
TOTAL COSTS                      83927431 110495035 137152155 159510261 240712673 160677756 183998349 187528954 187858178 192576841
B. BEhEFITS
TOTAL VALUE OF OUTPUT            28655350  60245083  98586424 148807925 205771702 236alO062 270717010 275286950 277367829 283562443
NET BENEFITS                    -55272081 -50249952 -38455741 -10702336  65059109  75132295  86718561  87757995  89499641  91985602
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPV AS A I
PRESENT             OF PRESENT           INTERNAL
VALUE AT CCC        COSTS AT OCC         RATE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                 OF 12. 00            OF 12.002            RETURN
BASE CASE                                           255802139. 5               22.0-            30. 02
TEST CASE  I CET                UP   20S
CEir             UP   20S             23722287.3                  1. 7           13.6S
TEST CASE  2  8E1               00DW 20S            -27438140.6                -2. 41            9.7S
TEST CASE  3  BEI               LAG    2 YEARS      -31412175.1                -2. 71           11. 
TEST CASE  4  BEI               LAG    3 YEARS    -152375077 1                -13. 12            8. 3



SICOUA.AGRICULTURAL DLYLLDEW NLTEREQJC
Eljimtied  Finanetul and Ls.lnMie   Prtlen.      Kma. 1951
Iconaaic Pr ICe
Financial   Adjwstment                                       If Financial  Price    1014 Internationally
Its                                 USal       ELot LI         Factor IEcoW0Q        LOIFJe _C.                _    L    _IrA.deL  SiJte                       b.imz1k
-(LI)---                       LI         I equinv.) *Cu'                               . . (US!)   
dueat                              ton            i07OO        db              iO0          12.00                     Itt                    I6  LA            cikf   - uS Gulf fo b.  Including 0SS20 transport cost
'lie (grain(  jLQ                  ton            206.00       J               24,00        209.00                     "1I 255 Is                               f. o b    eangkok fo ; IroS1 brooen  milled
Corn                               ton            41. 00       259             200.00       (17200                     116                    165 LA            cIf.    - u.So.o  2  ella,  fob   S. Gulf Port Including USS20 transport cost
Cotton                             bentar          60.00       LI               140,00      121.00                     231
Peanuts                            ton            529.00       SCPF  1         715.00       614.00                     1I9                    tSo Sc            dstiNtoed by World Banik Comrodity Studies A Projections Division
Beans                              ton            26..00       ."1 L1          32300        216.00                     125
Lentils                            ton            113.o0       SC, /           182.00       114.00                     139
Soybeans                           ton            260.00       SCF LI          161.00       011.00                     159                    11 LA             C.$ f. - Rotterdam c.i.f. including USS10 transport cost
Seso                               ton            613.00       SCF LI        1.157.00       997.00                     119
wheat Strae                        ton             9S.00       0.2S uIJ          24 .00      21.00                      21
Rice Straw                         ton             33.00       0.21 LU            8.00         7.00                     25
Tomatoes                           ton             50.00       1.70  iEt        05.00        73.00                     170
Vegetables (other)                 ton             90.00       1.30 I11         111.00      101.00                     130
eerseem Icloverl                   ton              16.00      o.So               0.00         7.00                     50
Fodder Sorghuta  (green crop)   ton                 6.00       0.50               3 00         3.00                     50
Waeat Seed                         ton             134.00      SCF II           (86.00       160.00                    1l9
Corn Seed:
Local (CoFpOSite)                ton            800.00       SCF 11        1.111.00      9S1.00                      119
-  Ptoneerl Hybrid                 ton          1(210.00       SCF a         1.73b.00   1.401.00                       139                                                                                                                                         a5
lice Seed (paddy) /L              ton            173.00       ScF LI          240.00       207.00                     l39                                                                                                                                          0'
Other Seed                         ton                         SCP 1_f                                                 (                                          Filnancial Price   Plus 25t of cormerual faringate price
Sudan Grass Seed                   ton          1,500.00       ScP L         2,222.00   1(916.00                       139
Diesel Fuel                        liter/pt           .S.0     6.17  Ll         24.00        21.00 LI                  671
Gasoline                           liter/Pt         14.00      I.1 S 21         21.00         (8.00 LI                 153
Ibtor Oil                          liter            0.70       SCF L              1.00        0.90 122                 139
Animal Draft                            -            -         SCF (1                                                  "39
Agricultural machinery                  -            -         is                                                       LI
Spare PartS                             -            -                                                                  A
Buildings A Building
Material                                                     sPr LI                                                  139
Urea                               ton             91.00       1. 631   I      14(800       128.00                     161                    163 /A            cIf. - varying origins; bagged; including US$10 transport cost
Potassium                          ton            120.00       1.61 211        196.00       169.00                     (63
TSP (Triplgsuperphosphate)         ton             07.00       (.63 III        142.00       122.00                     163                    160               cif. - fo.b. U.S. Gulf port $140; USS20 transport cost
Oranic Mawnure                          -            -         .05S LII                                                10S
Pesticides: Insecticides;
herbicides                                                  1.40  Ild                                                (40
Agricultural Labor:
Skilled  (adult ale)            6 hr day          8.40      1.04 LII           8.14         7.51                     104
Unskilled (adult etle):
o peak season al                A hr day          1.50      1.00               3.10         3.02                     (o0
o other season                   S hr day         3.50    0.S6 /11             1.96         1.69                      S6
June 15, 1984
frjs
pg>
-I|
0'



Ll  For crops and by-products.  Estimated weighted average prices are based on average yields per one feddan: government-established quota delivery system
per one feddan for respective comrodities as applied in 1983/84; government fixed prices for conmodities under the delivery quota system; estimated
average free market prices for the quantities of commodities sold in additiorl to the government-established delivery quota system or where only free
market prices exist. SQurce: HOA.
fl It was estimated at appraisal that an amount equal to about 38X of the official incentive rate of the Egyptian pound (0.84 x 38/100 * 0.32) would be
needed to purchase one US dollar from the commercial banks.  In view of the aforementioned, the economic value of the US dollar was calculated at
LE 116 to the US dollar. Source: Central Bank of Egypt.
LI  The Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) was estimated at 0.84/1.16 = 0.724 (rounded 0.72).  The barter agreements ratio between Egypt and the Peoples
Republic of China and the USSR, which apply to the overvalued rate of IE 0.39 to one US dollar as an accounting value, has been disregarded.  Within
the barter arrangements, project-related items are negligible.  o.urces:  Central Bank of Egypt and HOA.
LA  Source:  Economic Analysis and Projections Department, Commodity Studies and Projects Division, World Bank, Commodity Price Data, May 16. 1984.
L.  (a)  Wheat.  The c.i.f. price of imported wheat including US$20 for transport cost - US$168/ton was converted to LE equivalent by applying the exchange
rate of LE 1.16 to the US dollar (see Note 2). The LE equivalent for the c.i.f. price of one ton of wheat is LE 195. An estimated amount of
LE 14/ton has been added for a handling charge and the amount of LE 9/ton has been subtracted for the cost of transport from the farm to the
domostic whiolesale market (195 + 14 - 9 - 200). The economic price of one ton of wheat is estimated at LE 200.
(b) Corn.  The calculation is identical as for wheat.  The economic Price of one ton of corn is estimated at LE 200.
(c) Rlce.  The internationally traded price of rice f.o.b. Bangkok less lOt allowing for the lower quality of Egyptian rice than that of Thai rice was
estimated to be equal to the f,o.b. Alexandria export price of Egyptian rice.  This assunption was made in view that Egypt is currently exporting a
small quantity of rice.  The Thai rice price f.o.b. Bangkok is currently US$255/ton.  The Egyptian rice export price f.o.b. Alexandria would be
US$230/ton (255 - 1O).  This equals to LE 267/ton (US$230 x LE 1.16).  An estimated amount of LE 25/ton has been deducted for transport and
handling charges. The economic cost of Egyptian rice (grain) would be LE 242 equivalent to US$209 (242:1,16). The comparable price of
internationally traded rice would be US$230 (US$255 Thai rice - 10).
(d) Cotton. The average f.o.b. USS equivalent long staple cotton price treated fully as an export commodity was estimated as follows:
Export Price /1                        US$/ton   2.205 x 1.16    LE 2,558
Export Price LI                        US /ton =   143 x 1.16  t LE   166
Export Price Equivalent of Seed Cotton LI                          LE 1,020                                                                                          1
Less Ginning Cost                                 LE/ton 57:SCF 0.72 - 79                                                                                            7
Less Handling, Transport                                    LE/ton 49 - 49
International Farmgate Price                                       LE   892
(892:1.16) US$  769
International Farmgate Price:
LE/ton   892
LE/kentar   140
(1 kentar * 157.5 kg)
1 ton    - 6.35 kentar)                                     US$/ton   769
US$/kentar   121
Li  Source:  The Egyptian Cotton Ga2ette, 1982/83 weighted average of export varieties, using price quotations for grade b + 1/4.
f2  One ton of seed cotton was assumed to contain 355.56 kg lint, 634.92 kg seed and 9.52 kg scarto.  The price of scarto was assumed to be 30X of
that of lint. Soiutr: Agricultural Price Management in Egypt, World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 388. April 1980, P. 86.
oi  in the case of Imported agricultural machinery, equipmenit and spare parts, the estimated c.t.f. Foretgn exchange ortce was converted to the economic
price by applying the exchange rate of LE 1.16 to one US dollar (see Note 2). The handling charges were estimated at about 1St of the c.i.f. LE price
(foreign exchange c.i.f. price converted into LE applying the exchange rate of LE 1.16 to one US dollar) consisting of opening cost of L.C. 2X; port
clearing cost 4S: finance charge on LC 2S: and interest during the estimated six months sale period 7X. The dealers' markup for machinery and
equipment was calculated on average at 20% ranging from 10% in the case of larger quantities up to the legal limit of 30X. In the case of spare parts
the dealers' markup was estimated on average at about 35S (legal limit 45t). Handling charges and dealers' markup were estimated for machinery and
equipment at 35 of the c.i.f. foreign exchange price converted into LE with the exchange rate of LE 1.16 to one US dollar: and for spare parts 50.
a   Equals US$0.80/gallon.
Lfi Equals US$0.68/gallon.
a2 Harvesting: Planting: cotton stalk cutting; leveling in water; ditch cleaning. Source: HOA.
J_Q  Farmgate (financial) paddy price - LE 138/ton - was converted into grain price by using a 67; extraction rate (138:67   206).The quality of Egyptian
rice is somewhat lower and with a greater percentage of breakage than that of Thai rice which Is used in international commodity trading as the
standard with a St breakage (see Note Sc).
L11  Accounting Ratio.  Source:  Arab Republic of Egypt, Issues of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning. World Bank Report No. 4136-EGT, January 14,                      'D '-
1983.  For the item "unskilled labor in peak season" and berseem, mission estimate.                                                                                   xt
LIZ  Equals US$3.40/gallon.                                                                                                                                                 w 
0%



- 68-                                  TABLE 17
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative List of Machinery To Be Purchased under the Project
TRACTORS
43 hp Tractor 2WD
65 hp Tractor 2WD
IMPLEMENTS
Chisel Plow for 45 hp tractor
Chisel Plow for 65 hp tractor
3F Rev Mouldboard
3F Disc Plow
Disc Harrow
Spring Tine Cultivator
Rotary Cultivator (P.T.O. driven)
Rotary Cultivator (ground driven)
Single Tine Subsoiler
Land Leveller (mounted)
Backhoe
4 row Unit Planter
Seed Drill - trailed
Seed Drill - mounted
Seed Drill for Chisel
Tractor-mounted Boomsprayer (4 m)
Tractor-mounted B.S. with Hand Lances
H.D. Chisel Plow
Small S.P. Reaper Binder
Tractor-mounted Combine
Combine Harvester S.P. (large)
Combine Harvester S.P. (small)
Potato Lifter
Simple Stationary Thresher/Winnower
Baler - small PTO driven
Baler - stationary
Mower - PTO driven, reciprocating
Mower - PTO driven, disc
Cotton Stalk Puller
3-row M.B. Ridger
3-row Disc Ridger
Rotary Slasher
Tractor-mounted Reaper
S.P. Rice Transplanter
Manual Rice Transplanter
4t. Trailer
6-9 hp Pump



ARAB REPUBLIC OF IEIPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL nEVFLOPI4NT PRJECT
Increnental Usaae of Faim Inouts - Financial
Proaect Years_
I             :3                  :     4   :      S               6                          a                        9    : 10-20
:------ ----- ------_---------------------------------tLE  000---*----------------------------------------_-- ---------   I
Aariculltural Chem k^bs
Fertilizer  \1                    1,300.5       2,672.0       4,321.2       6,521.8      8,877.5    10,300.0       11,66;.5      11,750.4    11,762.7    11,562.9
PAS                   433.4          976.8       1,605.9      2,414.7      3,336.6       3,824.6       4,383.7      4,461.3       4.47S.0      4,572.3
K20                    94.3          228.8         377.3        566.0         782.8        893.2       1,023.7      1,043.9       1,043.7      1,063.8
Subtotal                 1,828.2        3,877.6      6,304.4      9,502.S      12,996.9    15,017.8    17,069.9    17,255.4    17,284.4    17,4sg90
Aaricultural Chenfcal  -
PN.  cides          1,159.7        2,719.1      4,469.6       6,712.0      9,259.8    10,596.6    12,122.5    12,336.2    12,342.3    12,562.1
Fur  cides             62.0          150.5         248.2        372.2         514.8        587.4         673.2        086.4         686.4        699.6
Herbicides            818.2        1,800.4       2,934.0      4,416.0      6,047.5       6,968.2       7,924.8      8,022.2       8,022.2      8,119.6
Microniutrients       450.2        1,092.0       1,800.8      2,701.2       3,735.7      4,262.6       4,885.2      4,981.0       4,951.0      5,077.0
Inoculants       _          _-    2.4    _.2 9.   i              14.6          20.1         23.0          -6.J          26.          26.8         27,3
Subtotal              2,492.6        5,767.8       9,462.2    14,216.4    19,577.9    22,437.8    25,632.0    26,052.6    26,08.7    26,455.5
Fertilizer & Ag Cliem Subtotl    4,320.B          9,645.4      15,766.6    23,718.9    32,574.8    37,455.6    42,70i.9    43,308.0    43,343.1    43,954.5
Organic Manures                       215.1          521.7        860.3       1,290.4      1,784.6       2,036.3       2,333.8      2,379.5       2,379.5      2,425.3
Total                               4,535.9       10,167.1     16,626.9    25,009.3    34,359.4    39,491.9    45,035.7    45,687.5    45,722.6    46,409. 80
Seed                                 (758.6)    (1,452.4)   (2,314.3)   (3,504.2)   (4,702.9)   (5,516.7)   (6,174,5)   (6,162.1)   (6,149.4)   (6,124.3)                           1
machinery Usage                     7,906.6       19,080.6    31,498.5    47,253.6    65,435.5    74,647.5    85,658.2    87,390.5    87,483.3    89,308.4
Labor Usage                        (3.503.5)      (9,131.7)  (15,112.9)  (22,619.5)  (31,331.6)  (35,589.6)  (40,814.5)  (41,704.2)  (41,585.5)  (42,343.5)
Draft Animal Usage                    428.3          876.3      1,430.6       2,158.8      2,971.0       3,432.0       3,924.4      3,977.1       4,007.1      4,089.1
----------------------- Incremartal Usage of Agricultural Chemicals  -  Physical ----------------------------------------
___-_ _----                                                                  ------ -  O          O tons---------------------------------------------------------
Fertili2er       N                  4.644.6        9,542.9     15,432.9    23,292.1       31,705.4    36,785.7    41,651.8    41,965.7    42,009.6    42,367.5
P2s               2,167.0        4,884.0      8,029,5      12,073.5    16,653.0       19,123.0    21,915.5    22,306.5    22,390.0    22,861.5
Kz0                  785.8        1,906.7      3,144.2       4,716.7       6,521,3      7,443,3       3,530,8      8,697,5       6,697,5      6 161 ,0
Subtotal              7,597.4       16,333.6    26,606.6    40,082.3    54,911.7    63,352.0    72,101.1             72,969.7    73.097.1        74,094,0
Ctmwlative Total For Project        7,597.4       23,931.0    50,537.6    90,619.9
Chemicals -   Pesticides               193.3         453.2         744.9      1,118.7       1,543.3     1,766.1        2,020.4      2,056.0       2,057.0      2,093.7
Fungicides             24.8           60.2          99.3        148.9         205.9       235.0          269.3         274.6        274.6         279,8
Herbicides             163.6         360.1         586.4        883.2       1,209.5     1,393.6        1,585.0       1,604.4      1,604.4       1,623.9
Micronutrients         180.1         436.8         720.3      1,080.5       1,496.3     1,705.0        1,954.1       1,992.4      1,992.4       2,030.8
Xnoculants               2.0 __4.9                     1  _      12- 22        16.8        19.2           21            22.3         22,3          22,8
Subtotal                 563.8       1,315.2       2,159.0      3,243.5       4,469.8     5,118.9        5,850.7       5,949.7      5,950.7       6,051.0
Figures in parentheses are negative.



- 70 -
Schedule 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Evaluation of MFCs and MFTCs
An evaluation of MFCs and MFTCs would be carried out on biannual
basis. For this purpose, a group of experts of not less than five persons
would be recruited by MOA in consultation with the Bank. Their assignment
would be to carry out an evaluation of the central mechanized farming stations
known as MFTCs and their satellite branches known as MFCS in the seven
governorates covered by the project.
Objectives
(i) To assess the workings of each center, its management and
administration and whether each center has maintained proper records
that reflect a correct picture of its operations.
(ii) To exaigine the activities undertaken by each center and whether
these are in accordance with the principles laid down in the
appraisal report and the project agreement.
(iii) To determine whether proper monitoring of these centers is
undertaken on a continuous basis and that such information is
regularly communicated to the M&E Unit in Cairo for proper
evaluation.
(iv) To recommend to project management any modification in policy
direction if this is found to be necessary for the achievement of
project objectives.
(v) To evaluate the impact of the centers on the various aspects of
rural development. A measure of the success of such operations
wou'd be the volume of machinery applied for or purchased as a
result of demonstrations.
(vi) The extent of cooperation of the MFTCs and MFCs with the research
and extension activities in each of the governorates.
(vii)  The number of MFTCs and MFCs that have been established in each
governorate and whether such number meets the planned target.
(viii)  An economic evaluation of the operational MFCs and their viability
to attract private sector entrepreneurs to eventually operate these
centers as custom hire service centers.



SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pr AC: Terms and Conditions of Loans tgL lr.rowri /1
Ordinary Lendina
Maxi1imi     Interest Rates
Ordinary Lending             purpose               Period          x a.             X of Pro.1ect Costs         Collateral
Short-term Loans:
Crop Production              Production costs    14 months   3.5% to 6.5%                 100%             Lien on crops
Food Security Loans:
Livestock                    Purchase of cattle  12 months   7% + 1%                      65%              Land mortgage
Poultry                        Feeding             12 months   7% + 1%
Broilers            2 months   7% + 1%                     70%             On an ad hoc basis
Mediwun- and Long-Term Loans:
a. Food Security Programs:
Livestock                    Purchase of cows       5 years    7% + 1%                    75%/80%          Land mortgage
Poultry                        Buffaloes            5 years    7% + 1%
Others (fish pro-              Broiler              5 years    7% + 1%
duction, feed mills,                                          (15% for foreign
cold stores,                                                   compound if from
hatcheries, vegetable                                          IBRD funds)
& meat packing,
marketing & distribution
facilities)
Production oF honey          Financing of          3 years      13% + 1%                                  On an ad hoc basis
honey cells
Machinery                                        5 years      8% + 1%                   75%/80%         Land mortgage &
Irrigation facilities                            3 years      8% + 1%                   75%,80%         chattel mortgage on
machinery
b. Others:
Pickup trucks, cars                                3 years      13% + 1%                  66.6%           On an ad hoc basis
Plantation                                         B years      13% + l%                                   Land mortgage.
L_  According to a quota by MOA and available funds for subsidized fertilizers.  For the amounts above the quota, the                            'O n
irnterest rate is 13% to 14%.                                                                                                               x  >
tt cD



EGYpT
SHCOAGRICULTURAL BE ELQPKE9LRQ.I=
pppAc:_  ka Lj_n_nditlons gf_Loans to Borrowers
&ernallv Findnced Credi=
% of Project
"Lul I e ESmiii   ca     Alt            Scurc  9L FA narnCe      iLmjum-perlda    Interest Rate         __QLt                       Collateral
Small Farmer Production Project           USAID grant
(SFPP)
- Crop production loans                                           18 months             10%                  100%          Crop lien: chattel mortgage
- Mechanization loans                                             S years              10S                  100%          Crop Lien: chattel mortgage
Anricultural Mechanization Project    USAID Grant
(AMP)
(a) Machinerv Introduction Credit Fund:
- Loan for f4.m machinery implements                              7 years              8%                    80%           Chattel mortgage on farm
excluding tractors and irrigation                                                                                        machinery
punps
(b) Service Center Credit Fund
- Loan to Service Shops                                           10 years             8.                    80X-90%       Land mortgage
(c) Water Lif.ing Credit Fund
- Loan for small pump sets                                        5 years              8%                                  Land mortgage and/or                   4
chattel mortgage
Agricultural Developmerit Project         IOA Credit 830
- Loan for machiniery & spare parts                               10 years             8%                    70%-80%       Chattel mortgage on farm
machinery and/or land
mortgage
Agroindustries I Project:                 IDA Credit 988                                                      90%
100% for Coops
Loan for all agroindustrial                                     8 years              12% except           65%-75%        Land mortgage and/or
projects                                                                              7% for food                        chattel mortgage on
security                      machinery
Agroindustries II Project:                IBRO Loan 2243
- Loans for all agroindustrial                                    10 years             15%                  65%-75%
purposes
QIQT.:  Food Security loans which have been appraised by BOAC bear an interest rate of 7% + 1% service charge per annum and are subject to
approval of governorate level by the Department of Agriculture for loans less than LE 35,000. For amounts greater than LE 50,000,
approval Is required from the Food Security Connmittee in Cairo. Food Secutrity loans which are not appraised bear an interest rate
of 14% per annum.
ov r)
rm
NJ



- 73 -
Schedule 3
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Implementation details are given in the various annexes
contained in Volume 2)
Prior to Project Effectiveness
a.  Notice to be published internationally inviting machinery
manufacturers to establish dealerships in Egypt on the basis of
criteria and conditions given in para 3.09.
b.  MOA to submit to Bank a list of approved machinery for iwportation
and a list of approved dealers qualified to do so (a minimum of
five).
c.  MOA to carry out an evaluation of MFCs and MFTCs that are completed
and operational, together with a two-year plan for constructing,
equipping and staffing MFCs and MFTCs.
d.  Appointment of the Project Executive Manager.
e.  Signing of the co-financing agreement and the subsidiary loan
agreement.
1985/86
a.  Appointment of the seed processing specialist not later than
January 31, 1986.
b.  Setting up of project Advisory Committee.
c.  Based on a satisfactory completion of MFCs' and MFTCs' evaluation,
MOA should begin the establishment of 15 MFCs and 3 MFTCs.
Arrangements should also be made for equipping and staffing these
centers.
d.  Appointment of two engineering specialists and two local
counterparts to coordinate the training programs for the MFTCs'
demonstration teams and SMSs.
e.  Appointment of consultants for the implementation of the approved
recommendations made under Cr 830-EGT, particularly with regard to
medium-term lending operations in the project area.
f.  Appointment of a consultant or a firm to carry out the seed study.



- 74 -
Schedule 3
Page 2
1986/87
a. Publishing of the tender documents for the seed processing plant
prepared by the consultant to be followed 90 days later by award of
a turn-key contract and commencement of construction.
b. Establishment of an additional 15 MFCs and 2 MFTCs with appropriate
arrangements for equipping and staffing these centers.
c. Completion of the seed study not later than June 30, 1987.
1987/88
a. MOA to carry out an evaluation of project activiLies after the
expiration of two years, or the establishment of 30 MFCs, whichever
occurs earlier, with particular emphasis on the activities of MFCs.
b. Satisfactory conclusion of the above evaluation would be the basis
for disbursement for the remaining 20 MFCs, the construction,
equipping and staffing of which would begin in the third year, and
should be completed in the first half of the following year.
1988/89
a. Completion of remaining MFCs and recruitment of remaining staff.
b. Completion of seed processing plant.



ARA8 REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AC iCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functional Orgynizaiori Crhan of Agncultural Extension SGMces
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            I
-       -  - -   -  -  -.  -t   -   -  I
.07
..  - -  - I, ----               
I'                             .                              ..                     '  I
.r    -~ ~~~~~-     ---       ---s,p----,. ---                                 ---          - -r
--J~~~~~~ I,=J.: ..
....................... ........................ ...........................................................................  ...................................................................................................
--W                                  Th                       E L                                 -- 
...   ................. .....              ...............................................................................
:+5':':' .,I.. i:                                                                                           _   I .
L    -;zi 2iI'S'                                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ __________________________I'''-.
ii ~~~~I                                              jI        I lIJ.             
.1.  Y .:r 3 v.t, s~r.J 1i..  rcj    ..r,                   ,**4"



3,.-                                11'i,                                                                    11'
EGYPT
Project Area                     SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A    Universities
*    Research Stations
O    Seed Process-ng Plants
,7    Seed Loboratories
-. -   Governorote Boundaries
O    Governorole Capitals
S    Number of Distiicts
-   Rivers
r
/   .                  '(  -  kDAMIETIA .
.: -      A          KAFR EL SHEIKH                    -V                            nt 5od
AI^ondr.og--,..   .'                                                                -  Esa   
'~-~                      . I   Kofr ol          'S   DAGAHLIYA               !_ t             ', _
Domonhr ,       SoIho0 0     o                 12 _            \                           -2
B E H E I R A             GHARBIYA / ,       S.QnJ.
15  8  v    5    J- o,0
_.                                                   -'S-i '- a   X   S H A R KIYA
1 4
40A
El lo:sa-n5
0~~~~
.nft\t  CAIRO 
r ~~~~ 4~~.                                / ~,   
EL FAYOUM!
--El "fyou5 n C                                         ..
HI  .~~~~~~~.- -.~~~                                    -c
~~~~~~~~~*. ,,\  ~ \,                                                                                                     C 
------~~.5               *  _......... '  ',                                                                              - s
M : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                     ~,s_






