Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14061-ECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2561-EGT)
MARCH 20, 1995
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


﻿CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE)
OFFICIAL
OFFICIAL                 INCENTIVE
YEAR          RATE                     RATE
Appraisal Year   1983/84     US$1   = LE    0.70   US$1   = LE 0.82
LE 1    = US$1.43     LE 1   = US$1.22
Completion Year 1993/94      US$1   = LE 3.38      None
LE 1    = US$0.296    None
WEIGHTS AN MEASURES
1 hectare               =          2.379 feddans
1 feddan                =          1.038 acres
1 acre                   =         0.963 feddan
1 square kilometer      =          238 feddans
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         =          African Development Bank
ARC         =          Agricultural Research Center
BDAC        =          Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
CBE         =          Central Bank of Egypt
GOE         =          Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
MALR        =          Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MFC         =          Mechanized Farming Center
MFTC        =          Mechanized Farming and Testing Center
MOA         =          Ministry of Agriculture
PBDAC       =          Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PTC         =          Principal Testing Center
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30


﻿FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2561-EGT)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ...................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Description ..................................  2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ............  4
D. Results .......... . ........ ..............                   6
E. Economic Reevaluation ..........................................  6
F. Sustainability .................................................. 7
G. Bank Performance .............................................. 8
H. Borrowers' Performance .........................................  8
I. Assessment of Outcome .......................................... 10
J  Future Operation .............................................. 10
K  Key Lessons Learned ............................................ 10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:  Summary of Assessments....................................  12
Table 2:  Related  Bank Loans/Credit ..................................  14
Table  3:  Project Timetable  .........................................  15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....... .16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................... 17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................... 18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .................................. 19
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................. 20
Table 8B: Project Financing ......................................... 21
Table 9A: A Medium-Scale Custom Service Operator's Income Statement ....... .22
Table 9B: A Medium-Scale Custom Service Operator's Financial Cash Flow ..... .23
Table 9C: Income Statement of Smallholder Who Owns Combine Harvester ..... .24
Table 9D: Cash-Flow Analysis of Smallholder Who Owns Combine Harvester . . .. 25
Table 9E: Financial Analysis of a Smalholder Farm Using Combine vs.
Traditional Method of Harvesting ........................... 26
Table 9F: Income Statement for a Medium-Scale Rice Mill and Storage Facility . . 27
Table 9G: A Medium-Scale Rice Mill Income Statement Analysis ............. .28
Table 9H: Income Statement for a Small-Scale Dairy Processing Facility ........ 29
Table 91: A Small-Scale Dairy Processing Cash-Flow Analysis ................ 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


﻿Table of Contents (Continued)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................. 31
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................. 33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................... 34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Bank Missions ............................. 35
APPENDICES:
A. Supervision/Completion Mission of November 1994 Aide-memoire
B. Subsidy Dependence Index for PBDAC
C. Borrowers' Final Evaluation Report on the Project
D. Map - IBRD No. 18377


﻿IKPLEKENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2561-EGT)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Agricultural Development Project in the Arab Republic of Egypt, for which
Loan 2561-EGT in the amount of US$139 million was approved on May 30, 1985 and
made effective on July 31, 1987. The Loan Agreement was amended on April 21,
1988, to a reduced amount of US$80 million.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1994, compared with the original
closing date of March 31, 1992. It was fully disbursed -- the last
disbursement took place on April 18, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Sue Lysy, Natural Resources, Water and
Environment Division of the Middle East & North Africa Region and reviewed by
Salah Darghouth (Division Chief) and Gianni Brizzi (Projects Adviser). The
beneficiary and implementing agency, The Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit, provided comments on behalf of the borrower, the
Government of Egypt, that are included as an appendix to the ICR. A copy of
the draft ICR was also sent to the African Development Bank/African
Development Fund; no comment was received.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, November 4 to 21, 1994. It is also based on
materials in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the
ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire,
and by commenting on the draft ICR.


﻿
﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2561-EGT)
Evaluation Summary
A.    Introduction
1.    The Second Agricultural Development Project was the thirteenth Bank
agriculture project in Egypt. At the time of project appraisal, the Bank
Group's agricultural portfolio in Egypt included eight projects: four
irrigation and drainage projects, a rehabilitation of pumping stations
project, a new lands development project, a fruits and vegetables project, and
the First Agriculture Development Project.
2.    The First Agriculture Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT) was launched as
a pilot operation in two Governorates. Its objectives were: to restructure
and strengthen agricultural extension, credit and cooperatives; to increase
small farmer income through mechanization; to test machinery and carry out
pilot trials in covered irrigation; and to evaluate the impact of farm
mechanization. With the First Agriculture Development Project nearing
closing, the second project was proposed.
B.    Project Objectives
3.    Objectives: The project objectives were to: (i) promote increased
agricultural productivity through introduction of appropriate farm technology,
including farm machinery services, to farmers in the seven rice-growing
governorates in the Nile Delta; (ii) assist in the modernization of the
national seed industry; and (iii) improve the efficiency of the agriculture
credit system. While consistent with the prevailing country strategy in
agriculture, the Project was organizationally complex with eight diverse
components which involved coordination across several agencies and
departments. It was subsequently restructured to reduce the number of
components, but its original objectives were not changed (para. 4).
4.    Components and Covenants: In the original Loan Agreement, the project
had eight components and an estimated cost of US$359 million (with IBRD
financing of US$139 million). The Project suffered a serious delay in its
start-up. The internal procedures in Egypt for authorization of signing took
more than nine months from Board approval to the signing of the Loan
Agreement. Moreover, because of the five conditions of effectiveness, the
Project took another sixteen months for the Loan to become effective. During
this period, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the principal implementation
agency for the Project, was reorganized and the sector and macroeconomic
policies also changed. In addition, more competitive financing terms were
offered by other donors (mainly USAID). As a result, the original project
design was no longer appropriate, and restructuring of the Project was
required. The Loan Agreement was amended in April 1988. The restructured
project consisted of only a credit component for import of machinery and for
rural workshops, and IBRD financing was reduced to US$80 million. The
principal implementation agency was changed from the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) to the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC).


﻿- ifi -
The Project closing date was extended to March 1993, from the original
scheduled closing of March 1992. The original co-financier, the African
Development Bank, also cancelled its Technical Assistance component and its
financing amount was reduced from the original 31.5 million African
Development Bank units to 10 million units (about US$27.5 equivalent). The 10
million Units was for import of agricultural machinery and agro-industrial
credit. Another 10 million Units was also provided by the African Development
Fund (ADF) to support the computerization of PBDAC/BDAC offices and for
extension activities. In August 1989, the Project was adjusted to include the
financing of post-harvest equipment for horticultural products. In December
1990, the project scope was further broadened to include importation of
equipment for animal feed production and seed processing. At the Loan Closing
Date, the total project cost of the redefined project amounted to US$159.7
million and the entire amount of the IBRD loan (US$80 million) was fully
disbursed.
C.    Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Project was closed in March 1994, compared to the original schedule
of March 1992, and the revised schedule of March 1993. The ADB/ADF Loan was
extended to March 1995. Delays in implementation continued following the
project restructuring in 1988. Under the Project, authorized dealers were
allowed to purchase foreign currency from PBDAC for importing machinery.
However, because of restrictions imposed by the Government on the importation
of machinery and the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound (LE), the Project
received a very low response from potential importers. The Project also had an
unsuccessful experience with the financing of rural workshops, because of the
lower financing rate offered by USAID in the same areas for the same purpose.
6.    With the low response from potential importers, PBDAC took an active
role in working with concerned ministries to have the restrictions removed.
At the same time, efforts were made to raise awareness about the credit
facilities available under the Project. In addition, two adjustments were
made in project scope to allow financing of post-harvest equipment for
horticultural products (August 1989) and equipment for animal feed production
and seed processing (December 1990). With the efforts of PBDAC and the Bank's
supervision team, most of the import restrictions were gradually removed. In
addition, because of the new "insurance" option introduced by PBDAC, currency
risk was no longer an issue for the importers. Implementation began to show
progress in 1990, and the restructured project was completed successfully in
1994.
7.    The two key factors that contributed to the ultimate success of the
Project were: the flexibility demonstrated by the Bank and the remarkable
effort made by PBDAC, especially in the latter part of the project
implementation. Assisted by the Bank, PBDAC took an active role in dealing
with the problems resulting from the Government's import policy and in
adapting to the macroeconomic changes. The Government of Egypt continues to
implement the trade and financial reforms initiated in 1991. Supported by the
loan, PBDAC made considerable progress in adjusting to the liberalized
financial system. It has begun to position itself as a competitive credit
bank. Under the Small Farmer Production Program and the Agricultural Credit


﻿- iv -
and Production Project (ACPP) which were funded by USAID, there have been
major improvements in internal procedures and administration, and a major
downsizing of PBDAC is now underway. However, to become a competitive credit
bank, PBDAC faces three major challenges in the coming years. It has to
improve its operational/financial controls, reduce its administrative costs,
and upgrade staff skills in credit banking. Operational/financial controls
should be improved with the introduction of a new MIS, which is being financed
by USAID and ADF, and is expected to be fully operational in 1996.
Administrative costs will be reduced as a result of the program of staff
reduction now underway. And staff training is being provided in the on-going
Agricultural Modernization Project (Ln. 3719/Cr. 2585-EGT) and USAID's ACPP
project.
8.    While the Bank performed satisfactorily in project supervision, some
weaknesses in project preparation are apparent. The Project could have been
more thoroughly prepared prior to appraisal, problems similar to those
encountered under the First Agricultural Development Project (which closed in
December 1984) were repeated. According to OED's Audit Report, the overall
assessment for the First Project was considered "unsatisfactory". In
hindsight, perhaps some of the delay in reaching loan effectiveness could have
been avoided if certain critical issues had been resolved with COE prior to
Board Approval. Among these was the resolution during project preparation of
the issue stemming from GOE's import restrictions (33 out of 37 proposed
import items were restricted). This could perhaps have shortened the
implementation period by about two years (page 4, para. 13-14). Furthermore,
with the clear distortions existing in the currency market (three exchange
rates were in use at the same time), some provisions could have been made for
PBDAC to deal with the currency risk. An arrangement such as the current
system in place (i.e. offering a "currency risk insurance" to the importers)
could have also avoided the confusion and frustration encountered. The
Appraisal Team could also have anticipated the low demand for Letters of
Credit to finance rural workshop equipment, knowing that subsidized financing
was available for such equipment in the project area.
9.    At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at
30% and the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was 35%. However, since the
Project was restructured and its scope was adjusted, these estimates are no
longer meaningful benchmarks. Indicative estimates were made of the ERR and
the FRR of the restructured project, based on the distribution of the type of
loans given under the project -- they are 48% and 35%, respectively. These
rates for the restructured project are higher than those estimated at
Appraisal for the original project.
10.   Although it is difficult to assess project benefits in isolation because
economic and sector policy reforms were underway during project
implementation, the sustainability of the Project is likely. A calculated


﻿Subsidy Dependence Indexl (SDI) indicates that, for PBDAC to operate on a
self-sustaining basis, it would have needed to increase its lending rate by
7 percentage points in FY92 (from 15% to 22%). However, the SDI is expected
to decline to just one percentage point in FY97. The projected lending rate
is expected to be 20% in that year, and would need to be raised slightly
further to 21% to eliminate dependence on subsidies. With direct interest
subsidies being sharply reduced in recent years, and completely eliminated as
of January 1, 1994, PBDAC has been more effectively managed, with improved
profitability as a result. PBDAC has enjoyed an excellent repayment record on
its agricultural short-term credits, with an average recovery rate of 98.6%
for the past twelve years. The preferential treatment (i.e. direct interest
subsidy, and subsidy on equity and reserve exemption) given earlier to PBDAC
is being phased out.
11.  Although the Project experienced long implementation delays and required
major restructuring, the overall assessment is that it was "satisfactory" in
the achievement of its development objectives. The Project succeeded in
raising agricultural production through the introduction of a wide range of
farm machinery and technology choices. To a large extent, it also achieved
the objective of improving the efficiency of the agriculture credit system.
The objective of assisting the modernization of the national seed industry was
also achieved, although through the work of bilateral donors (USAID and
others)V. It should be noted that, although not included in the original
project objectives, the Project contributed to private sector development and
it facilitated the Government's reform program for liberalizing import of
agricultural machinery and spare parts.
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.  Findings: The design of the Second Agricultural Development Project was
too complex and the project was not sufficiently prepared at appraisal; this
was also a problem in the First Agricultural Development Project that was
closed in December 1984. Both projects started with eight components
involving several implementation agencies/departments, and were subsequently
restructured by dropping most of the components. Both projects suffered from
serious delays in their start-up, including a long delay in the appointment of
a full-time project director. They both encountered problems as a consequence
of reorganizations of Government agencies. This project could have benefitted
from applying the lessons learned under the First Agricultural Development
Project.
13.  Future Operations and Sustainability: The on-going Agricultural
Modernization Project (Ln. 3719/Cr. 2585-EGT) will continue to assist PBDAC in
1     The subsidy Dependeace Index measures the percentage increase in the avenge on-lreding interest rate that would be
required to compensate for eliminating subsidies, including the subsidy an RFI receives through paying interest below the
market rate on its borrowed funds (mostly rediscounting facilities with the central bask or soft loss from donors). For
details on SDI see Jacob Yarn, wWhat Makes Rural Finance Institutions Successful?', World Bank Research Observer
Volume 9, Number 1.
/     The cost of this component was not included in the project total cost, because the information was not available to the ICR
mision.


﻿- Vi -
moving toward becoming a self-sustaining banking institution. As indicated by
the calculated SDI (para. 9), PBDAC will be able to operate without subsidy by
FY97. In recognizing the need to ensure its financial viability in the
medium-term, PBDAC has prepared a medium-term Business Plan which outlines the
strategy for developing the bank into an effective rural financial
intermediary. It was also agreed, under the Agricultural Modernization
Project, that PBDAC will prepare a Business Plan each year. The Plan would
include the performance and development targets to be achieved during the
following year, and projections for the coming five years.
14.   Key Lessons Learned: The Project provides a number of important lessons:
(a)   Keen it SimpDe: Projects need to be kept simple, and in line with
administrative capacity. The Project, although better designed
than the First Agricultural Development Project, had many diverse
components involving participation of several
agencies/departments. This structure required a wide matrix of
coordination, which was not forthcoming. Although the Bank could
not anticipate the changes in leadership, due to the
reorganization of the Government, the complexity and
appropriateness of project design should be commensurate with
organizational and coordination capabilities.
(b)   Parallelism Among Donors: In appraising and supervising
development credit projects, attention needs to be paid to the
competitiveness of the lending terms (interest rate, maturities)
relative to other sources of funds within the financial system.
Better coordination is required at the national level, and steps
should be developed to ensure parallelism in the parameters of the
funds provided by different donors (i.e. similar lending terms).
Attention should also be paid to the interest rate spread
requirement of the banks, to ensure the spread is adequate to
serve the needs of the banks while maintaining competitiveness
with the prevailing financial market.
(c)   Understand the Risks: For projects involving imports and exports,
adequate provision should be made in addressing exchange rate
risks, especially in countries where the viability of the initial
exchange rate regime is questionable (i.e. the exchange rate is
fixed and local inflation is high). IBRD could play a significant
role in advising GOE and PBDAC in managing currency risk. With
proper management of currency risk, some of the project delay and
confusion could have been reduced. In addition, it could have
resulted in cheaper borrowing rates for project beneficiaries.
(d)   Check the Regulations: One of the factors which caused serious
delays in project implementation was unfamiliarity with Government
regulations. At the time of project implementation, all tractors
and the bulk of the implements (33 out 37) to be purchased under
the Project were restricted items under GOE regulations. Although
PBDAC made a significant effort to have these restrictions
removed, it would have been more effective if such effort was
initiated during project preparation.


﻿- Vii -
(a)   Implement Projects with Flexibility: One of the major factors
that contributed to the success of the project was the flexibility
demonstrated by the Bank. Project designs may need to change to
accommodate changing sectoral and macroeconomic conditions. One
should not hesitate to restructure a project when conditions
change.


﻿IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2561-UT)
PART I -- Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Background
1.    Agriculture accounts for about 20% of GDP and 40% of total employment in
Egypt. Almost all cropland is irrigated as the country has very low
precipitation. Cultivated land in Egypt is limited to only about 3% to 4% of
the total land area; and at 0.05 ha of cultivated land per capita, Egypt has
one of the lowest ratios of cultivated land per capita in the world. The
major crops are cotton, rice, and maize in the summer and berseem (Egyptian
clover), wheat, and beans in the winter. The cropping system is a complex
rotation of multipurpose crops in small farms.
2.    In contrast to a strong earlier performance, the rate of growth of
agriculture declined to about 2% per annum during the 1970s. At the same
time, demand for agricultural products grew rapidly, reflecting both
population and income growth, declining real food prices due to food subsidy
policies, and the liberalization of imports supported by several new sources
of foreign exchange earnings. As a result, imports of agricultural goods
surged while the growth of exportable crops stagnated. The overall trade
balance for the agriculture sector, which enjoyed a surplus of US$300 million
in 1970, showed a deficit of US$800 million in 1977 and of US$3.0 billion in
1983/84. There was a need for increased agricultural output.
3.    Agricultural labor shortages and rising wage costs, as well as the need
to shorten the turnaround time between crops to increase cropping intensity
and yields, suggested that Egyptian agriculture could benefit from further
mechanization of operations (especially during the peak cropping seasons), and
the introduction of early maturing varieties. At the time of project
appraisal, the Bank Group's agricultural portfolio in Egypt included eight
projects: four irrigation and drainage projects, a rehabilitation of pumping
stations project, a new lands development project, a fruits and vegetables
project, and the First Agriculture Development Project.
4.    The First Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-ECT) was launched as
a pilot operation in two Governorates. Its objectives were: to restructure
and strengthen agricultural extension, credit and cooperatives; to increase
small farmer income through mechanization; to test machinery and carry out
pilot trials in covered irrigation; and to evaluate the impact of
mechanization. Experience gained under the first project indicated that
imported farm machinery had to be adapted to Egyptian small-field conditions.
It was also shown that the extension system should be relieved of regulatory
functions. Furthermore, the extension system had to be well organized at the
Governorate levels within the framework of a national agricultural extension
system. With the first Agriculture Development Project nearing closing, the
second project was proposed.


﻿-2-
B.    Project Objectives and Description
5.    Proiect Objective: The original objectives of the Second Agricultural
Development Project were to:
(a) support the development and application of improved farming
practices in seven rice growing governorates of the Nile Delta,
through the provision of appropriate farm machinery, incremental
farm inputs, and extension services;
(b) assist in the modernization of the national seed industry; and
(c) increase the efficiency of the agriculture credit system.
6.    While consistent with the prevailing country strategy, these objectives
were pursued through a complex design of eight different components which
required the coordination of several agencies/departments.
7.    Project Design: The Project components included:
(a)   provision of incremental farm inputs required by the newly
introduced technological packages;
(b)   provision of farm machinery to farmers and custom hire operators,
with a credit facility from the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), if needed;
(c)   establishment of about 35 new rural workshops, and expansion of
some existing facilities, to provide machinery servicing, repairs
and spare parts;
(d)   installation of a modern seed cleaning plant to replace worn-out
machinery, refurbishing two seed laboratories, and conducting a
study of the national seed industry;
(e)   training of extension staff of the Ministry of Agriculture (M0A)
and farmers in advanced farming techniques, of machine operators
and maintenance personnel in operation of farm machinery and its
maintenance, and of managers and officials of the PBDAC system in
farm credit operations;
(f)   establishment of one Mechanized Farming and Testing Center (MFTC)
in each Governorate, under the supervision of the existing
Principal Testing Center (PTC) at Sakha in the Delta, for testing
of agricultural machinery and demonstration of advanced farm
operations mainly through field days (two MFTCs were already in
existence);
]J    Beheira, Charbiya, Kafr-el-Sheikh, Dakahliya, Damietta, Sharkiya, and
Fayoum.


﻿-3  -
(s)   setting up of small satellites for each MFTC, to be known as
Mechanized Farming Centers (MFCs). These small centers would
serve as demonstration, training and extension centers for
machinery that had been found through tests at the PTC or MFTCs to
be technically suitable and financially viable; and
(h)   technical assistance to support the operations, to continue the
testing and demonstration of technical packages, and to support
institution building in agricultural credit.
8.    MOA had primary responsibility for the project and coordinated the
activities of all institutions included under the project (e.g. MOA, PBDAC,
ARC, commercial banks, PTC, etc.). Project start-up suffered a series of
delays. Because of internal procedures in Egypt for approval of documents and
authorization for signing, more than nine months elapsed from Board approval
to the signing of the Loan Agreement. Furthermore, due to general elections
and delays of the Borrower in fulfilling the conditions of loan
effectiveness/, the Loan took another sixteen months to become effective.
During this long period, MOA was reorganized and the sector and macroeconomic
policies also changed. As a result, the original project design and
implementing agencies were no longer appropriate, and the Project required
restructuring.
9.    In April 1988, the Loan Agreement was amended to exclude the components
relating to MFC and MFTC, and their functions were shifted to the reorganized
extension service and authorized machinery dealers. The incremental farm
inputs, seed research, and seed processing components were eventually funded
by other sources, mainly USAID. As a result, US$59 million from the IBRD loan
(from an original total of US$139 million) was canceled. The original co-
financier, the African Development Bank, also canceled its Technical
Assistance component, and its financing amount was reduced from the original
31.5 million African Development Bank Units to 10 million Units (about US$27.5
equivalent). The 10 million Units were for the import of agricultural
machinery and for agro-industrial investment credits. Another 10 million
Units were also provided by the African Development Fund (ADF) to support the
computerization of PBDAC/BDAC offices and for extension activities.
10.   It was also agreed at the April 1988 restructuring to extend the Closing
Date by one years to March 1993. In addition, PBDAC became the project's main
implementing agency, replacing MOA. A further adjustment of the project scope
was made in August 1989, when an amount of US$4 million was earmarked from the
Loan for the financing of post-harvest equipment for horticultural products.
In December 1990, a further adjustment was made to include the importation of
equipment for animal feed production and for seed processing. The project
area was also broadened to cover the entire country. As a result of these
restructurings, the project had become an import credit project.
1/    There were five conditions of loan effectiveness: (i) approval of a
list of qualified dealers; (ii) testing and approval of a list of
qualified machinery for import; (iii) signing of the co-financing
agreement; (iv) signing of the subsidiary loan agreement with PBDAC; and
(iv) appointment of a Project Manager.


﻿11.   Achievement of Obiectives: Overall, the Project achieved its main
objective of supporting the development and application of improved farming
practices in seven rice growing governorates of the Nile Delta [para. 5(a)
listed above]. It also helped to increase the efficiency of the agriculture
credit system [para. 5(c)]. Supported by bilateral sources of financing
(USAID and others), the objective of assisting the modernization of the
national seed industry was also achieved [para. 5(b)]. However, since the
information on the cost of this component was not available to the ICR
mission, it is not included in the project's final total cost.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   There was a very slow start in project implementation. The delay was
due to: (i) the pre-existing restrictions on the importation of machinery;
(ii) the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound (LE); and (iii) the availability of
subsidized financing. However, despite the long delay and difficulties, the
Project was completed with favorable results. Two factors that contributed to
this success were: (i) the efforts made by PBDAC to deal with the problems
resulting from the Government's import policy, and to adapt to changes in
macroeconomic conditions; and (ii) the flexibility demonstrated by the Bank in
supervising the Project. The major factors that led to the delay in project
implementation are described immediately below. The major factors which
contributed to the project success are described in the Bank Performance and
Borrowers' Performance sections (para. 28-35).
13.   Import Restrictions: Project implementation started in May 1988,
following the restructuring of the Loan in April 1988. By the end of October
1989, 18 months after project restructuring, only nine applications (for a
total of US$2.5 million) had been received, of which six (US$1.2 million) were
approved. The main reason for the low response of machinery dealers was the
pervasive restrictions on the importation of agricultural machinery. Under
Egyptian law, the restricted items could be imported only with prior approval
from the Ministry of Military Production. At that time, the import of
tractors in the range of 20-85 HP was prohibited and tractors to be purchased
under the project were 43 HP and 65 HP. In addition, out of 37 implements to
be purchased under the project, 33 were on the restricted list.
14.   In November 1988, the Ministry of Military Production reduced the list
of restricted items significantly; of the 33 implements which were put forward
for reconsideration, only 11 remained on the restricted list. Tractors
between 45-85 HP continued to be on the restricted list. It was also evident
that such a restriction was intended to support a monopoly of a public sector
company, El Nasr Automotive Manufacturing Company (NASCO). In September 1992,
in response to IBRD's request, COE lifted the ban on importation of 25 to
80 HP tractors, but, at the same time, increased import tariffs to a level
which discouraged importation of tractors and irrigation pump engines. PBDAC
again raised this issue with the relevant Ministries and the tariffs were
eventually brought down to reasonable levels.
15.   Exchange Rates: Until February 1991, all legal transactions in the
foreign exchange market in Egypt had to take place at either the Central Bank
of Egypt (CBE) or one of the officially appointed banks. Foreign currency
could be sold there but could be bought only for international trading
purposes on a discretionary rationing basis.


﻿- 5 -
16.   At appraisal in 1984, three main rates were in use: the Central Bank
rate (fixed at LE 0.7/US$ since 1979), which was used for most transactions by
the Government and the public sector; the official incentive rate (or the
parallel exchange rate) which was about LE 0.82/US$ but was gradually devalued
to about LE 1.25/US$ by January 1985; and the "tolerated" free market rate,
which fluctuated around LE 2/US$. In May, 1987, the two latter markets were
gradually merged. One third to one half of all foreign exchange transactions
were still carried out through the CBE pool (including for most transactions
where public sector entities were involved); the majority of all other foreign
exchange transactions were handled by the newly established "free" bank's
market rate, which was regularly adjusted by a committee of bank managers in
line with the perceived demand for and supply of foreign currency. The CBE
rate remained unchanged at LE 0.7/US$ until August 1989; it was devalued at
that time to LE 1.1/US$ and then devalued a second time in July 1990 to a rate
of LE 2.0/US$. The rate in the free bank's market was set originally at LE
2.16/US$, it was gradually devalued to about LE 2.7/US$ by the fall of 1990,
and reached about LE 2.85/US$ in February 1991. Finally, in October 1991, the
multiple exchange rates were unified. At the time of project closing in 1994,
the rate was fluctuating around LE 3.3/US$.
17.   Under the First Agricultural Development Project, PBDAC procured
tractors (at CBE's fixed exchange rate of LE 0.7/US$l) and distributed them to
farmers. In effect, GOE was subsidizing the purchase price of these tractors
to farmers via the government policy of applying the low exchange rate for
such purchases. The Second Agricultural Development Project subsequently
addressed this problem, where under the Loan Agreements it was required that
PBDAC transact at a rate close to the parallel exchange rate, thus reducing
the implicit subsidy for the purchase of tractors. This was no longer an
issue once the multiple exchange rates were unified in October 1991.
18.   At the beginning of the Project, authorized dealers were allowed to
purchase foreign currency from PBDAC for importing machinery. Because of the
fixed exchange rate, currency risk was initially borne by CBE. This lasted
until August 1989 when the first devaluation of the Egyptian Pound occurred.
GOE required that user agencies bear the currency risk of the Bank loan, i.e.
the user agencies would be required to repay the foreign exchange equivalent
due on any IBRD loans. As the implementation agency, PBDAC was expected to
assume the currency risk. To manage the exchange rate risk, PBDAC charged 17%
for credits which required foreign currencies; 4 percentage points above the
then prevailing local rate. There was also a service charge ranging from 2 to
6 percentage points, depending on the type of credit. However, for any
issuance of Letters of Credit (L/C), PBDAC charged dealers the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of shipment instead of the exchange rate at the opening
of the L/C. The time lag between the opening and the payment was about six
months. With the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound, some dealers experienced
serious currency translation losses.
19.   The significant time lag was apparently due to: (i) normal delays
required to manufacture and deliver the machinery; (ii) delays in the
replenishment of the Special account with the Union des Banques Arabes et
Francaises (UBAF), New York; and (iii) UBAF's administrative delays in paying
the Letters of Credit. Efforts were made to correct delays caused by (ii) and
(iii). In addition, PBDAC established stricter guidelines to speed up the
processing of dealers' applications for foreign exchange or local currency


﻿-6  -
loans. The elapsed time was then reduced to about four months. Steps were
also taken to promote the awareness, especially with small workshop owners, of
the facilities available under the project. Implementation started to show
some progress in 1990.
20.   Finally, in 1992, two initiatives were taken by PBDAC to deal with the
issues concerning currency risk. First, for the currency risk associated with
IBRD loans, PBDAC entered into an agreement with CBE; it would pay 3% above
the prevailing interest rate to CBE and the currency risk would then be borne
by CBE. Second, to its importer customers, PBDAC offered a "currency risk
insurance": for an amount equivalent to 1% of the foreign currency
requirement, dealers could lock in the exchange rate at the time of L/C
opening. PBDAC and its customers have since been insulated from the foreign
exchange rate risk.
21.   Competine Financing Source: Throughout the implementation period,
demand for L/C applications to finance workshop equipment remained low -- only
US$1.7 million -- and was originated only by a Government-owned company in
Beheira. Despite the extensive advertising campaign carried out by PBDAC in
1989 to promote the creation of rural workshops, potential investors contacted
by PBDAC were discouraged by the interest rate (17%) charged by PBDAC. During
1982-86, a large number of workshops (90) had been established in Egypt under
a USAID-financed Farm Mechanization Project. Under the USAID project, the
interest rate was substantially lower, where investors obtained a credit at an
interest rate of just 8% compared to a prevailing rate at that time of 13%.
Also, there may have been a market saturation of rural workshops, following
the rapid buildup during 1982-86.
D.    Results
22.   The IBRD Loan was closed on March 31, 1994, and the ADB/ADF Loan was
extended to March 1995. At Loan Closing, total project costs amounted to
US$159.7 million and the entire amount of the IBRD loan (US$80 million) was
fully disbursed. About 71% of the IBRD Loan (US$57.4 million) financed import
of farm machinery and spare parts, 28% (US$22.4 million) financed agro-related
businesses, and less than 1% (US$0.3 million) financed import of fertilizer.
23.   The Government of Egypt continues to implement the trade and financial
reforms initiated in 1991. Supported by the Bank and USAID, PBDAC made
considerable progress in adjusting to the liberalized financial system and has
begun to position itself as a competitive credit bank. Under the Small Farmer
Production Program and the Agricultural Credit and Production Project (ACPP),
funded by USAID, there have been major improvements in internal procedures and
administration, including a major downsizing of PBDAC. However, progress in
improving its internal record keeping system and services at the village banks
has been slower than anticipated. A Management Information System (MIS),
funded by USAID and ADF, is currently being developed and should help to
address this problem. It is expected to be completed in 1996.
E.    Economic Reevaluation
24.   At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at
30% and the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was 35%. FRR was also projected


﻿-7  -
for typical custom hire service (20%). However, with three major
restructurings, these estimates are no longer meaningful benchmarks.
25.   Although it is difficult to calculate benefits from the use of farm
machinery in isolation, indicative estimates were made for four prototype
activities financed by the Loan. The estimated PRRs and ERRs are as follows:
ICR Estimates     SAR Estimates
Model                              Fa          IUR   FU          EU
Medium-scale custom service operator     30%         44%
Farmer holding two feddans of land, and
purchase of a harvester with PBDAC
financing                                33%         52%
Medium-scale rice mill and storage
facility                                 33%         42%
Small-scale dairy processing facility    39%         52%
OVERALL PROJECT (weighted average)    35%         48%   35%         30%
Applying the weighting of 40%, 30%, 20%, and 10%, based on the distribution of
the type of loans given under the project, the overall FRR and ERR would be
35% and 48%, respectively. These rates for the overall Project are higher
than those for the somewhat different Project estimated at Appraisal.
F.    Sustainability
26.   Although it is difficult to assess the sustainability of institutional
reform, since a number of national reforms were underway during project
implementation, the sustainability of the project is likely. It is also clear
that the project has facilitated the liberalization of imports and the
provision of foreign exchange.
27.   The Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI)I/ was calculated to measure the
degree to which PBDAC is dependent on subsidies. The results show that an
increase in the lending rate from 15% to 22% would have permitted PBDAC to
operate on a self-sustaining basis in FY92. The required increase in the
1/    The Subsidy Dependence Index measures the percentage increase in the
average on-lending interest rate required to compensate for eliminating
subsidies, including the subsidy an RFI receives through paying interest
below the market rate on its borrowed funds (mostly rediscounting
facilities with the central bank or soft loans from donors). For
details on SDI see Jacob Yaron, "What Makes Rural Finance Institutions
Successful?", World Bank Research Observer, Volume 9, Number 1.


﻿-8-
interest rate is expected to decline to only about 1% in FY97: the projected
lending rate is expected to be 20% in that year, and would need to be raised
slightly further to 21% for there to be no dependance on subsidies. This
trend is attributed to the removal of interest subsidies, the decline in
imputed subsidies, and the improved profitability of PBDAC. Detailed
calculations are shown in Annex 2.
a.    Bank Performance
28.   While the Bank performance in project supervision was satisfactory,
weaknesses in project design and its preparation are apparent. The project
design was too complex, as had been the case for the First Agricultural
Development Project. That project closed in December 1984, and the overall
assessment of it in the OED Audit Report was "unsatisfactory". Both projects
started with eight components, involving several implementation
agencies/departments, and were subsequently substantially restructured with
most of the components dropped. Both projects suffered from serious delays in
starting up, and had to deal with Government reorganizations.
29.   While Government reorganization was beyond the Appraisal Team's control,
in hindsight perhaps some of the delay could have been avoided if some of the
critical issues had been resolved with GOE prior to Board Approval. For
instance, resolution of COE's import restrictions during project preparation
would have avoided the confusion and frustration encountered during project
implementation, and perhaps could have shortened the implementation period by
two to three years. In addition, there could have been some provision for
PBDAC to deal with the currency risk. At the time of Appraisal, the
distortion in the currency market was apparent and PBDAC was to assume the
currency risk of the Bank loans. If an arrangement, such as the current
arrangement made between CBE and PBDAC (para. 20), had been in place during
the implementation period, some of the delay and confusion could have been
avoided. The Appraisal Team could also have anticipated the low demand for
Letters of Credit to finance rural workshop equipment, for the reasons noted
above (para. 21).
30.   The First Project was implemented without a full-time Project Director
and administrative staff for the first two and a half years. Learning from
the First Project, the Second Project included the appointment of key
personnel as one of the conditions for effectiveness. However, compliance
with this condition still took eight months. This could have been made a
condition for Negotiation or Board Presentation.
31.   In reviewing the Bank's performance, one should take into account the
weakness in the project design and its preparation, as well as the social-
economic and political environment that characterized the project
implementation period in Egypt. After an hiatus of a few years, the Bank took
a proactive and flexible approach in supervision, which was one of the key
factors that contributed to the favorable outcome of the Project.
H.    Borrowers' Performance
32.   Implementation Agency: As the principal implementation agency, the
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) made valuable
contributions to the project success, especially in the latter part of project


﻿- 9 -
implementation. PBDAC is the largest lender to agriculture in Egypt,
accounting for about 75% of the total, with the remaining 25% coming mainly
from commercial banks. For the latter, agriculture lending accounted for only
3.2% of their total portfolios. Although there are no apparent legal
barriers, commercial banks have not been very active in rural lending. Their
reluctance to provide more rural credit is largely because of more lucrative
lending opportunities with urban clients. Furthermore, the expense of the
rural branch network that would be required, inadequate knowledge of rural
clients and inadequate staff expertise in dealing with rural borrowers,
combined with the greater costs of lending to small borrowers, have led to low
commercial bank involvement in rural banking. Consequently, PBDAC, operating
through 17 Governorate Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDACs),
154 branch banks, 804 village banks, and some 4,000 village level agents, has
remained the mainstay for rural banking. Overall, through its network, PBDAC
serves a clientele of some three million small farmers.
33.   PBDAC has an excellent track record in recovering agricultural short-
term credits (averaging 98.6% over the past twelve years). However, an
estimated 30% of PBDAC's loans were lent at interest rates which were negative
in real terms, for which it received a subsidy reimbursement from the
Government. In addition, subsidized long-term external loans have helped
PBDAC to keep its average cost of funds low. However, with the increase in
PBDAC's borrowing from commercial banks (from 28% of its total borrowings at
the time of appraisal in 1984 to 45% in 1988), the interest yield on its loan
portfolio (presently about 17%) is inadequate to cover the cost of commercial
borrowing (15%) and administrative costs. Furthermore, with the ongoing
program of divestiture of trading activities, PBDAC's gross income from
trading operations has declined since 1990 (from 37% of total gross income in
1990 to 27% in 1991). With the liberalization measures that became effective
in early 1990, PBDAC's role in the distribution of fertilizer and seed has
diminished drastically. While PBDAC purchased more than 90% of domestically
produced fertilizers prior to liberalization, its purchase accounted for only
4% of domestic production in the second semester of 1992. All these
reductions in operations were not accompanied by a corresponding decrease in
total staff and other fixed costs.
34.   In order to reduce its administrative costs, PBDAC introduced a
voluntary separation program in March 1993, with a total of 6,856 staff
separations planned over a period of 3 years (as of the end of 1994, about
2,000 staff have separated). The total cost of the separation bonuses was
estimated at LE 106 million.
35.   During project implementation, especially in the latter part of the
project life, there was a remarkable effort by PBDAC to deal with the problems
resulting from the Government's import policy and from changes in
macroeconomic conditions. It adopted a practical approach to several
operational issues and in addressing issues raised by Bank supervision
missions. However, to become a competitive credit bank, PBDAC faces three
major challenges in the coming years: it has to improve its
operational/financial controls, reduce its administrative costs, and upgrade
staff skills in credit banking. A new MIS, financed by USAID and ADF, should
help in the task of improving operational/financial controls, and is expected
to be fully operational in 1996. The program of staff separation (para. 34)
should help reduce administrative costs, and staff training is being addressed


﻿- 10 -
in the on-going Agricultural Modernization Project (Ln. 3719/Cr. 2582-EGT) and
USAID's ACPP Project.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
36.   Although the Project experienced long implementation delays and required
major restructuring, the overall assessment is that it was "satisfactory" in
the achievement of its development objectives. The Project succeeded in
achieving its objective of raising agricultural production through the
introduction of a wide range of farm machinery and technology. To a large
extent, it also achieved the objective of improving the efficiency of the
agriculture credit system. The objective of assisting the modernization of
the national seed industry was also achieved, although through the activities
of bilateral donors (USAID and others). It should be noted that, although not
included in the original project objectives, the Project contributed to
private sector development and it facilitated the Government's reform program
for liberalizing the import of agricultural machinery and spare parts.
J.    Future Operation
37.   PBDAC is a significantly stronger institution now than it was before,
and is moving toward becoming a self-sustaining banking institution.
Furthermore, as is evident from the SDI analysis (para. 31), the preferential
treatment given earlier to PBDAC is being phased out. With further support
from the on-going Agricultural Modernization Project (Ln. 3719/Cr. 2585-EGT),
PBDAC will be able to operate without subsidy by FY97. In recognizing the
need to ensure its financial viability in the medium-term, PBDAC has prepared
a medium-term Business Plan which outlines the strategy for developing the
bank into an effective rural financial intermediary. It was also agreed,
under the Agricultural Modernization Project, that PBDAC will prepare a
Business Plan each year. The Plan would include annual targets to be achieved
during the following year, and projections for the coming five years. It is
therefore expected that PBDAC will be able to continue to provide, without
subsidy from FY97, funds for the import of agricultural machinery as was
supported by this project.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
38.   The Project provides a number of important lessons:
(a)   Keen it Simple: Projects need to be kept simple, and in line with
administrative capacity. The Project, although better designed
than the First Agricultural Development Project, had many diverse
components involving participation of several
agencies/departments. This structure required a wide matrix of
coordination, which was not forthcoming. Although the Bank could
not anticipate the changes in leadership, due to the
reorganization of the Government, the complexity and
appropriateness of project design should be commensurate with
organizational and coordination capabilities.
(b)   Parallelism Among Donors: In appraising and supervising
development credit projects, attention needs to be paid to the
competitiveness of the lending terms (interest rate, maturities)


﻿- 11 -
relative to other sources of funds within the financial system.
Better coordination is required at the national level, and steps
should be developed to ensure parallelism in the parameters of the
funds provided by different donors (i.e. similar lending terms).
Attention should also be paid to the interest rate spread
requirement of the banks, to ensure the spread is adequate to
serve the needs of the banks while maintaining competitiveness
with the prevailing financial market.
(c)   Understand the Risks: For projects involving imports and exports,
adequate provision should be made in addressing exchange rate
risks, especially in countries where the viability of the initial
exchange rate regime is questionable (i.e. the exchange rate is
fixed and local inflation is high). IBRD could play a significant
role in advising COE and PBDAC in managing currency risk. With
proper management of currency risk, some of the project delay and
confusion could have been reduced. In addition, it could have
resulted in cheaper borrowing rates for project beneficiaries.
(d)   Check the Regulations: One of the factors which caused serious
delays in project implementation was unfamiliarity with Government
regulations. At the time of project implementation, all tractors
and the bulk of the implements (33 out 37) to be purchased under
the Project were restricted items under GOE regulations. Although
PBDAC made a significant effort to have these restrictions
removed, it would have been more effective if such effort was
initiated during project preparation.
(e)   Implement Proiects with Flexibility: One of the major factors
that contributed to the success of the project was the flexibility
demonstrated by the Bank. Project designs may need to change to
accommodate changing sectoral and macroeconomic conditions. One
should not hesitate to restructure a project when conditions
change.


﻿- 12 -
Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table BA: Project Costs
Table SB: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives     Substa          E41           &   ibs        Not applicable
Macro policies *                 E              9             D
Sector policies *                O                            [O               D
Financial objectives             O                            []               Ol
Institutional development *      O                             [ O             []
Physical objectives                                           D                E]
Poverty reduction                H             H              0
Gender issues                    H             El
Other social objectives          H             H                ]
Environmental objectives         O             H              O
Public sector management         H                   R       O                H
Private sector development *     H                            []               H
Other (specify)                  O             O:1            O
(Continued)
*Not included in the original objectives.


﻿- 13 -
B. Project sustainability                                        Unlikely                   Uncertain
O                          D
C. Bank performance                   satisfactory              Satisfacto                  Deficient
Identification                                                 EP'                         O
Preparation assistance               OI O[
Appraisal                                                      D
Supervision                          0
Highly
D. Borrower performance               6atisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                                                    D
Implementation                       0 B
Covenant compliance                  0 E
Operation (if applicable)            O                         O
Highly                                               Hi2hly
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
O               1                 V                  O
E1                          ]E


﻿- 14 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                             Purpose              Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Nile Delta Drainage I (Cr. 181)          Subsurface Drainage   1970         Closed
2. Upper Egypt Drainage I (Cr. 393)         Subsurface Drainage   1973         Closed
3. Fruits and Vegetables (Ln. 1276)         Agriculture/Credit    1976         Closed
4. Upper Egypt Drainage H (Ln. 1285/Cr. 637)  Subsurface Drainage  1976        Closed
5. Nile Delta Drainage II (In. 1439/Cr. 719)  Subsurface Drainage  1977        Closed
6. Agricultural Dev. Proj. (Cr. 830)        Extension/Credit/     1978         Closed
Mechanization
7. First Agroindustries Proj. (Cr. 988)     Agro-Industry/Credit  1980         Closed
8. New Land Development (Cr. 1083)          Irrigation and        1980         Closed
Drainage
9. Fish Farming Dev. Proj. (Cr. 1111)       Fisheries             1981         Closed
10. Technical Assistance Proj. (Cr. 1162)    Technical Assistance  1982         Closed
11. Second Agroindustries Proj. (Ln. 2243)    Agro-industry/Credit  1983        Closed
12. Irrig. Pump Stn. Rehab. I (Ln. 2270)     Irrigation            1983         Closed
Following Operations
1. Channel Maintenance (Ln. 2732)             Irrigation and       1986         Closed
Drainage
2. Agriculture Storage (Ln. 3071)             Storage               1989         On-going
3. Irrig. Pump Stn. Rehab. H (Ln 3198)        Irrigation            1990         On-going
4. National Drainage (Ln. 3417/Cr. 2585)      Subsurface Drainage  1991          On-going
5. Matruh Resource Management (Cr. 2504)      Natural Resource     1993         On-going
Management
6. Agric. Modernization (Ln. 3719/Cr. 2585)   Mechanization/        1994        On-going
Credit
7. Irrig. Improvement (Ln. 3832/Cr. 2672)     Irrigation            1994        Board
m:\cgt\2561\pcr\table2


﻿- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned      Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Project Brief)                                 05/27/82
Preparation                                                    02/18/84
Appraisal                                    05/05/84          05/15/84
Negotiations                                   08/84           04/08/85
Letter of Development Policy
Board Presentation                             10/84           05/30/85
Signing                                                        03/14/86
Effectiveness                                07/14/86          07/31/87
First Tranche Release                                              -
Midterm Review                                                 11/15/90
Second (and third) Tranche Release                                -
Project Completion                           03/31/91          03/31/94
Loan Closing                                 03/31/92          03/31/94
m:\egt\2561\pcr\table3


﻿IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Miions)
FY86    FY87  FY88 FY89     FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate          6.9   29.0   61.0  97.0  129.0  139.0    -      -      -
Actual                       -     -     10.0  14.4   39.2   56.3  62.6   64.7   80.0
Actual as % of Estimate     0       0     16     15    30     41
Date of Final Disbursement 4/18/94
=\egt\2561\pcr\tabIe4


﻿- 17 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJE
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators for Project Implementation were not available.


﻿- 18 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators for Project Operation were not available.


﻿- 19 -
IPLEMENTATION COMPLEMON REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                     Impact of
Study         Appraisal/Redefined        Status           Study
1. Seed Study   Study of various         Completed       - Seed
interrelated aspects of                   legislation
the national seeds                        was adopted
industry to determine
appropriate courses of                   - Privatization
action for reorganizing it                 of seed
and ensuring high                         industry
quality seeds for all                      underway
crops and promoting the
role of the private sector
in the industry.
m:\cgt\2561\pcr\tab1e7


﻿IMPIYMEATFAITON COMPqITON REPORT
ARAB REPUMLIC OF ECTFI
SECOND AGRICULTURAL 131DEMT PROJECT
(CRED]f 251-EGI)
Tabl Sk N*d Ca.wb*
Appraial Estimate (US$ Miliam)        Actual/ILaent Estmook (US  MMlIm)
I_cal ___                                 Ladg   Lad  F1ng
CenIts        CNsIX       Total          Cash           Camis         TOla
Incremental Farm Inputs                          29.6         29.8          59A           31A            22A           53.8
Farm Machinery                                   43.1         68.5         111.6           7.0           74.2          81.2
Workshops & Spare Parts                          23.1         33.7          56.8            -
Seed Processing                                   1.7          1.6           3.3            -             -
Extension & Training                             10.9          1.7          12.6            8.0           2.5          10.5
Testing & Research                                29           3.1           6.0            -
Demonstration                                    16S           9.8          26.3
Technical Assistance                              1.2          5.4           6.6            -
PBDAC: Computerization                                                                     6.0            8.2          14.2
Total Baseline Costs                        129.0        153.6         282.6          52.4          107.3         159.7
Physical & Price Contingencies               51.0         25.4          76A
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             180.0        179.0         359.0           52.4         107.3         159.7*
* No mesdiumaes   mob fr umc eampiem
-   C.dt r. . blmm mopent mg bmheb& Ine oommW wa ue um&r N
mA ths ed hsumntdbwws mm      b S Ic  M ate.
Ms\EGI\2M1\PCR\TABLESA


﻿- 21 -
IPLEMENTATION COMEON REPOR
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO
Table SB: Project Financing
App,ab.a EIdhna- (USM0      A-tuAItes Esa- (UWA)
Iocal  Foreig.             local     Foreig
Costs   Costs     Total    Cost       Costs       T.al
IBRD/IDA                 0.8    139.0    1390       0.0        0 sSu
coa.inw Iaatiou                400      4.*                273         273
Benetiaries            133.9             133.9    172.9         U        172.9
Domstc Coatributioa    4.1             4.1      7.1         U           7.1
ITYTAL               Isu      179.0   39.0     18          1073        287J
* Cod o *eed develomn copot ad laioded. ts mponnws  A add m bilateral falhAdug
and the coi Inforadom as savailable to tie ICR milslson
mc\egt\2561\per\ta&blU


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A Medium-Scale Custom Service Operator's Income Statement 1/
('000 LE)
Year                                       1        2        3       4        5        6        7        8
Revenue 2/                       No.
Laser Leveller                   2      360      720      720     720      720      720      720      720
Digger with Loader               1       75      150      1SD     150      150      150      150      150
Seed drill                       6       43       86       86      86       86       86       86       86
Bulldozer                        2      180      360      360     360      360      360      360      360
Total                                    658     1316     1316    1316     1316     1316     1316     1316
Operating Expenditures
Driver 3/                       30       27       54       54      54       54       54       54       54
Laborer 3/                      10        6       12       12      12       12       12       12       12
Other O&M cost 4/                       255      510      510     510      510      510      510      510
Total                                    288      576      576     576      576      576      576      576
Gross Operating Income                   370      740      740     740      740      740      740      740
Non-Operating Expenses 5/
Depreciation                            128      273      273     273      273      273      273      273
Interest paid                                    222     178      133       89       44
Net Operating Income Before Tax          243      245      289     334      378      423      467      467
Taxes 6/                                  61       61       72      84       95      106      117      117
Net Income                               182      184      217     251      284      317      350      350
1/ The revenue and expense data are based on actual information provided by a medium scale custom operator
in Dakhaliya; prices of machineries were updated to reflect their market prices in 1994; and due to
intensive usage, machineries are assumed to have a service life of 8 years.
2/ Laser leveller worked 240 days/year for 10 hr/day for LE 150/fed with an operation time of one hour/fed;
digger with loader and bulldozer, 300 days, 10hr/day, loader for LE 50/hr and bulldozer for LE 60/hr;
and seed drill, 60 days/year, 10 hr/day, for LE 12/fed with an operation time of 30 minutes/fd.
3/ The drivers were paid LE 150/month and the laborers received LE 100/month.
4/ Other O&M cost amounted to about 25% of total investment cost.
5/ Depreciation was calculated on the basis of 8 years service life for the machinery, and 20 years for
the building.
6/ Assumed to be 25% of net operating income.
(D


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A Medium-Scale Custom Service Operator's Financial Cash Flow
('000 LE)
Year                                       1        2       3        4        5        6        7        8
Investment                       No.
Laser Leveller Unit              2      150
Tractor 85 HP                    8      720
Digger with loader               1      500
Seed drill                       6       60
Bulldozer                        2      500
Vehicle                          2      110
Building and Land 1/                    100
Total                                   2140
Operation Expenditures                   288      576     576      576      576      576      576      576
Taxes                                     61       61      72       84       95      106      117      117
Revenue                                  658     1316    1316     1316     1316     1316     1316     1316
Net Cash-Flow Before Financing         -1831     679      668      657      646      635      624      624
FRR                                                                                30.28%
ERR                                                                                43.85%
Financing 2/
Equity                                  749
Loan                                   1391
Debt Service                                    501      476      428      378      328
Net cash-flow after financing            271     178      192      229      268      307      624      624
Return on Owner Equity                                                             47.92%
1/ While the land value (LE 50,000) was treated as an investment cost in the project's first year, it was
reclaimed as a revenue in the project's final year.
2/ Financing was assumed to be shared by 35% owners equity and 65% bank loan (an interest of 16% was assumed
on the bank loan).
H,
(-


﻿ARAB Republic of Egypt
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement of A Small Holder (2 fed) Who Owns a Combine Harvester,
Using it on His Land and Renting it to Neighboring Farmers 1/
Year                                           1       2        3        4        5       6
Revenue 2/                                 26150   83740    83740    83740    83740   41870
Operating Cost 3/
Repaired and Maintenace                    4915    15974    15974    15974   15974     6656
Lubrication                                  95      310      310     310      310      129
Fuel                                        323     1048     1048    1048     1048      524
Combine operator                           1280     4160     4160    4160     2080     2080
Business Running Cost                      1800     3600     3600    3600     3600     1800
Garage and Insurance                        960      960      960     960      960      960
Total                                       9373   26052    26052    26052    23972    12149
Gross Operating Income                     16777   57688    57688    57688    59768    29721
Non-Operating Expenses
Depreciation                              13000    26000    26000   26000    26000    13000
Interest Paid 4/                                   13520    10140    6760     3380
Net Operating Income Before Tax             3777    18168   21548    24928    30388    16721
Taxes                                        944    4542     5387     6232     7597    4180
Net Income                                  2833    13626   16161    18696    22791    12541
1/ The data was based on : 'Rice Mechanization Pilot Project in Arab Republic of Egypt' report prepared by
by Agricultual Engineering Research Institute (AERI), and mission field interviews.
It was assumed that the combine would have 4,000 hours of sevice life which would be realized on the basis of the following
work program in six years: 256 hours in the first year, 832 hours per year from the second to fifth year, and 416 hours in the sixth year
The Japanese combine which is used for this analysis harvest both rice and wheat, and in 1.3 hours, it covers one fed.
2/ Revenue was computed on the basis of prevailing service charges of LE 130/fed.
3/ AERI reports' showed that in 1992 realized hourly cost for repair and maintenance was LE 16; lubrication, LE 0.31;
and fuel, LE 1.05; and garage and insurance cost LE 800/year. A 20% upward adjustment was considered in converting these data to
represent 1994 costs. Combine operator cost was calculated on the basis of LE 5/hour and office and book keeping cost of LE 300/month.
4/ Based on a term period of four years and lending rate of 16%.


﻿ARAB Republic of Egypt
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash-Flow Analysis of A Small Holder (2 fed) Who Owns a Combine Harvester,
Using it on His Land and Renting it to Neighboring Farmers
Year                                            1        2        3        4        5        6
Ivestment  NO
Combine     1                              130000
Operating Expenditure                        9373    26052    26052    26052    26052    12142
Taxes                                         944     4542     5387     6232     7597     4180
Revenue                                     26150    83740    83740    83740    83740    41870
Net Cash-Flow Before Financing            -114167    53146    52301    51456    50091    25548
FRR                                                           32.68%
ERR                                                           52.07%
Financing 1/
Eguity                                     45500
Loan                                       84500
Debt Services                                        34645    31265    27885    24505
Net cash-flow After Financing               15833    18501    21036    23571    25586    25548
Return on Owner Equity                                        63.45%
rD
1/ The owner pays 35% of the purchased price from his equity and borrows the remaining 65% from PBDAC at an interest rate of 16%.


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMPENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis of a Smallholder Farm (2 fed) Using Combine Vs. Traditional Method of Harvesting
Utilizing Combine Harvester      Maintaining Traditional Method of Harvesting
Total Cost                       Total Cost
Unit     in LE                   Unit     (in LE)
Operating Cost
Labor 1/
harvesting                                                8/fed         80
binding                                                   4/fed         40
threshing and winnowing                                   6/fed         60
transporting             1/fed         10                 1/fed         10
collecting straw         4/fed         40
storing                  1/fed         10                 1/fed         10
Renting Combine          LE130/fed     260
Tractor and thresher Rent                                 4 hours/fe    200
Total Operating Cost                   320                              400
Grain Losess
Wheat 2/                  3.4%         104                10%           307
Rice 21                  3.4           116                10%           341
Total                                  220                              648
Farmers Financial Gain from Using
Combine Harvestor  (in LE)                     580
11 The unit of labor indicated peson days of labor per fed, and labor charges were calculated on the basis of LE 5/person/day.
2/ It was assumed that yield for wheat amounted to 2.4 tons/fed and for paddy 3.1 tons/fed; prevailing financial
price of wheat was LE 640/ton and that of paddy 550/ton.


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement for a Medium Scale Rice Mill and Storage Facility 1/
(in'000 LE)
Year                     1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8   9-19        20
Revenue 2/                    7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056    7056
Operating Expenditure
Paddy 2/                      5491     5491     5491     5491    5491     5491     5491     5491     5491
Wage and Salaries 3/            32       32       32       32      32       32       32       32       32
Energy                           6        6        6       6        6        6        6        6        6
Maintenance Cost 4/            126      126      126      126     126      126      126      126      126
Bags                           100      100      100      100      100     100      100      100      100
Total                         5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755    5755
Gross Operating Income        1301     1301     1301     1301     1301     1301     1301     1301     1301
Depreciation                    78       78       78      78       78       78       78       78       78
Interest Paid 5/               237      219      202      184     166      148      130
Income Before Tax              986     1004     1021     1039     1057     1075     1093     1223    1223
Tax                            246      251      255      260      264      269      273      306     306
Net Income                     739      753      766      779      793      806      820     917      917
1/ The Miller/ Owner functions also as a trader; after purchasing and milling paddy, he stores rice in 50Kg bags and sells it to domestic
and export markets; the mill works two shift/day and 200 days/year with a processing capacity of 3 tons/hour.
2/ The miller quoted: his purchase price of paddy, including transportation and handling, at LE 572/ton and rice selling
price at LE 1050/ton; Sale proceeds from paddy husk were not considered as they were allowed to cover owner's miscellaneous
expenses such as advertisement, storage and handling losses; The paddy rice conversion ratio was reported to be 70%.
3/ 10 unskilled and 1 skilled workers were engaged per shift, unskilled labor received LE 150/person/month and skilled labor  W
LE 500/person/month.
4/ Assumed to be 10% investment cost for equipment and 5% of the investment cost for building.
5/ 13% on investment and 15% on working capital.


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A Medium Scale Rice Mill Income Statement.nalysis
(in'000 LE)
Year                              1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8   9-19      20
Investment
Building and Land              700
Equipment                      960
Total                          1660
Working Capital il             1500     1500    1500     1500     1500     1500     1500     1500     1500     1500
Operating Expenditures                 5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755     5755    5755
Tax                                     246      251      255      260      264      269      273      306     306
Revenue                                7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056     7056    7056
Net Cash-Flow Before Financing  -3160   1055    1050     1046     1041     1037     1032     1028      995     995
FRR                                                     32.86%
ERR                                                     41.87%
Financing 21
Equity                         700
Loan                          2460
Debt Services
Equipment                               262      244      226     208      191      173      155
Working Capital 31                     1725     1725     1725     1725     1725    1725     1725     1725     1725
Net Cash-Flow After Financing          568.0    581.0    595.0    608.0   621.0    634.0    648.0    770.0    770.0
Return on Owner Equity
83.60%
11 For his working capital, the owner/miller entered into a long-term arrangement with PBDAC, under which the miller has a
right to borrow up to a maximum of LE 1,500,000 in any given year and he is obligated to pay back the amout in full by
the end of the year; such an arrangement covers the first seven years of the investment life.
21 The project is expected to have a 20 year life span.
31 Assumed the miller borrows full LE 1,500,000 from January 1 to December 31.


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement for a Small Scale Dairy Processing Facility 1/
(in LE)
Year                     1        2        3         4        5        6        7        8        9       10
Revenue 2/                    76032    76032     76032    76032    76032    76032    76032    76032    76032
Operating Expenditure
Milk                          57600    57600    57600    57600    57600    57600     57600    57600    57600
Ascorbic Acid                   259      259      259      259      259       259      259      259      259
Rennet Enzyme                    20       20       20       20       20       20        20       20       20
Salt                            144      144      144      144      144       144      144      144      144
Electricity                     180      180      180      180      180       180      180      180      180
Fuel                            800      800      800      800      800      800       800      800      800
Wrapping Material              1018     1018     1018     1018     1018      1018     1018     1018     1018
Other Expenses                 1825     1825     1825     1825     1825      1825     1825     1825     1825
Total                         61846    61846     61846    61846    61846    61846    61846    61846    61846
Gross Operating Income        14186     14186    14186    14186    14186    14186    14186    14186    14186
Depreciation 3!                 500      500      500      500      500      500       500      500      500
Interest Paid 4/                900      900      900      900      900      900      900       900      900
Income Before Tax             12786    12786     12786    12786    12786    12786    12786    12786    12786
Tax 5/                         3196     3196      3196     3196     3196     3196     3196     3196     3196
Net Income                     9589     9589     9589      9589     9589     9589     9589     9589     9589
1/ The facility represents a typical example of the PBDAC' small capital lending operation; it processed 180 liters of milk daily and it
was operated by a family, on a part time basis, consisting of a husband, wife, and a teenage son; the family works 3 hours
daily: two hours in the morning before the start of their regular job and one hour in the evening.
2/ The owner quoted: his purchase price of milk at LE 1/letter and cheese selling price at LE 4/Kg: the conversion
ratio of milk to cheese at 33%; salt usage 3kg/day; and salt price LEO.15/kg.
31 Assumed to be 2.5% of the building cost.
41 The Owner borrowed LE 6,000 as working capital from PBDAC, on an interest rate of 15%.
5/ Corporate tax is assumed to amount to 25% of income.


﻿ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A Small Scale Dairy Processing Cash-Flow Analysis
(in LE)
Year                             1        2        3        4        5        6        7       8        9       10
Investment
Building and Land            20000
Equipment                     1500
Total                         21500
Working Capital 11            6000     6000     6000     6000     6000     6000     6000    6000     6000     6000
Operating Expenditures                61646    61646    61646    61646    61646    61646    61646   61646    61646
Tax                                    3196     3196     3196     3196     3196     3196    3196     3196     3196
Revenue                               76032    76032    76032    76032    76032    76032   76032    76032    86032
Net Cash-Flow Before Financing  -27500  11190  11190    11190    11190    11190    11190    11190   11190    21190
FRR                                                     39.36%
ERR                                                     51.51%
O
Financing 2/
Equity                       21500
Loan                          6000
Debt Services
Working Capital                        6900     6900     6900     6900    6900     6900     6900     6900     6900
Net Cash-Flow After Financing         10290    10290    10290    10290    10290    10290    10290    10290   20290
Return on Owner Equity                                  46.30%
1/ For his working capital, the owner entered into a long-term arrangement with PBDAC, under which he has a right to borrow
upto a maximum of LE 6,000 in any given year and he is obligated to pay back the amout in full by the end of the year; it
has been assumed that the miller borrows full LE 6,000 from January 1 to December 31.
2/ The project is expected to have a 10 year life span.


﻿-31 -
it
e              I
2 i
e i i
o        3
- 00
0


﻿Rn  at   12/07/94
at 14.23.13
PF1   - latest Status of Cbvenant (bpliance
OD 13 05 -   ANE  DS
Full. Text of General (b-enant Classificatio
(oaeant Clasa
1  Acconts/audit
2  Financial perforan-/generate revanu     frs benefciaries
3  Flo- ard utiliatim of Project funds
4 Ontepart funding
5  anagttent  apects of the Froject or of ts executirg ageny
6  Envirarental     enanta
7  I   luntary resettlenent
8 Irdigenas people
9 8bsutorig, riew and reporting
10  Isplnkntatia
11  Sectoral or cr~s-sectoral txxtetary or other resorce allati-
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral reulatory/institutiaal actio
13 Other


﻿- 33 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPOR
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance.


﻿- 34 -
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned*          Revised*            Actual
Stage of       Weeks     US$    Weeks     US$      Weeks   US$'000**
Project Cycle                                              I -
Through Appraisal                                       246.6        1,186
Appraisal - Board                                         7.6           37
Board-Effectiveness                                      34.8          167
Supervision                                              87.1          419
Completion                                                7.5           36
TOTAL                                                383.6        1,845
*Information not available.
**Assume $250,000 per staffyear.
m:\cgt\2561\per\tablel2


﻿Ij                   fl
I    'i                   *1
i     i    i       i    iii~    i
-   -         -        -    ----   il
-                       ~-.-
juli11 [[ji   la        i li
[1[ijl[       I   i                 li
_______ I %II4UI 'i 1=
*     *            *    *  *   fl    '
il                 liii
II                          i
Ii'ii     i~                         I
I


﻿·，떼 36 _
쐬


﻿Performance Rating
Number      Days      Specialized Staff
star Of Project Cycle                            of        in       Skill Represented    Implementation   Development            Types of Problem
Month/Year       Persons    Field                              Status         Objective
Supervision                           11/"            3        N/A     Financial Analyst            2               2
Agronomist
Ag. Machinery Spec.
4/91            4        N/A     operations Oftwer            2                2
Engineer
Ag. Machinery SpeL
6/92            1        N/A     Operations Officer           2                2
10/92            2       N/A     Operations Officer           2                2
Economist
3193            1        N/A     Economist                    2                2
3/94            3        N/A     Operations Officer           2               2
Agriculturist
Economist
nc\egt\2561\pcr\tablel3


﻿- 38 -                        Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2561-EGT)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
November 1994
1.    This aide-memoire summarizes the main findings and views of the IBRD
mission consisting of Ms. Sue Lysy (Task Manager) and Mr. Rouchdy Saleh
(Agriculturalist of the Resident Mission) . Mr. Mohammad Usman (Consultant of
IBRD) also provided support to the mission. During the period of November 4 to
21, 1994, the mission reviewed the implementation of the Second Agriculture
Development Project (Loan 2561-EGT) . The findings and recommendations of the
mission as recorded in this aide memoire are subject to confirmation after the
mission's return to IBRD headquarters.
2.    The mission held meetings with officials of the Principal Bank for
Development and Agriculture Credit (PBDAC) , the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation (MALR), private importers and dealers, as well as local farmers. In
addition to discussions with officials in Cairo, the mission also visited
Dakhalia, Kafr El Sheikh, and Ismaliya Governorates and met with staff in the
Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC) and village banks.   The
mission also met with investors who received project financing from the bank and
reviewed in detail the costs and benefits of their operations.   The mission
discussed with PBDAC staff its Implementation Completion Report which was
submitted to the IBRD in October, 1994.
3.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the courtesies and
cooperation extended to it by Dr. Hassan Khedr (Chairman of PBDAC) , Eng. Mohamed
El-Salhy, Mr. Ezzat Hassouna, and other officials of the PBDAC during the
mission's stay in Egypt. The mission also wishes to thank Drs. Yassin Osman
(First Undersecretary of State for Agricultural Extension), Fawzi Naaim
(Undersecretary of State for Agricultural Extension) , Fouad M. Sileem (Applied
TTC Advisor, MALR), and Saad Nassar (Ministry's Advisor and Supervisor of
Economic Sector) for their very helpful discussions with the Mission.
4.    The Mission's preliminary assessment indicates that the project has
generally achieved its objectives of increasing agricultural production and
productivity through provision of farm machinery supplies, modernization of the
seed industry, expansion of investments in small- and medium-scale agro-
industries and machinery hire services in the private sector, and liberalization
of imports of agricultural machinery and spare parts.
The Project
5.    The original project's objectives, according to the Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement, were to:
(i)   support the development and application of improved      farming
practices in six rice growing governorates in the Delta and Fayoum
governorate, through the provision of appropriate farm machinery,
incremental farm inputs and extension services;


﻿- 39 -                        Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
(ii) assist in the modernization of the national seed industry; and
(iii) increase the efficiency of the agriculture credit system.
6.    The project as it was described in the Staff Appraisal Report consisted of
the following components:
(a)   Provision of incremental farm   inputs required by the newly
introduced technological packages;
(b)   Provision of farm machinery to farmers and custom hire operators,
with a credit facility from PBDAC if needed;
(c)   Establishment of about 35 new rural workshops and expansion of some
existing facilities to provide machinery servicing, repairs and
spare parts;
(d)   Installation of a modern seed cleaning plant to replace worn-out
machinery, refurbishing two seed laboratories, and conducting a
study of the national seed industry;
(e)  Training of extension staff of MOA and farmers in advanced farming
techniques, of machine operators and maintenance personnel in
operation of farm machinery and its maintenance, and of managers and
officials of the PBDAC system in farm credit operations;
(f)  Establishment of one Mechanized Farming and Testing Center (MFTC) in
each governorate, under the supervision of the existing Principal
Testing Center (PTC) at Sakha in the Delta, for testing of
agricultural  machinery  and  demonstration  of   advanced  farm
operations;
(g)   Setting up of small satellites, know as Mechanized Farming Center
(MFCs) , for each MFTC to provide demonstration, training and
extension service for new machines; and
(h)  Technical assistance to support the operation including assistance
in the field of introducing a network of management information
system in PBDAC, BDACs and village banks.
7.    In April, 1988, the Loan Agreement was amended to exclude the components
relating to Mechanized Farming Centers (MFC) and Mechanized and Farming Testing
Centers (MFTC), and their functions were shifted to the reorganized extension
service and authorized machinery dealers. The incremental farm inputs, seed
research and seed processing components were then funded from other sources,
mainly USAID.  The technical assistance component was re-oriented to provide
additional financial assistance to PBDAC in implementing its comprehensive
program of computerization, partially funded by USAID. Furthermore, PBDAC became
the project's main implementing agency, replacing the Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reclamation. A further adjustment of the project scope was made, as a
result of discussions with the Government in August 1989, by earmarking US$4
million from the Loan for the financing of post-harvest equipment for
horticultural products.   As a result, US$59 million from the IBRD loan
(originally totaling US$139 million) and an amount of US$21.15 million equivalent


﻿- 40 -                       Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
from the ADB loan (original totaling US$31.15 million) were cancelled.   An
additional US$14 million equivalent from the ADF was also included.      The
restructured project retained its original objectives.
8.    Following the two major project restructurings, import machinery was the
only component funded by the IBRD Loan. The implementation of this component had
a very slow start. Due to the then existing restrictions on the importation of
agricultural machinery, the initial response from machinery dealers was less than
expected. By the end of October, 1989, 18 months after project restructuring,
only nine applications (total US$2.5 million) were received in which six (US$1.2
million) were subsequently approved. PBDAC took actions to have some of the
import restrictions on agricultural machinery removed.   In addition, PBDAC
established a stricter guideline to speed up the process of dealers' applications
for foreign exchange and local currency loans. Steps were also taken to promote
the awareness, especially with small workshop owners, of the facilities available
under the project. Implementation began at a normal pace in 1990.
9.    Overall, the project has achieved its objectives of raising agricultural
production, expanding investments in small- and medium-scale agro-industries and
machinery hire services in the private sector, and liberalizing the import of
agricultural machinery and spare parts.
Status of Disbursement
10.   The IBRD Loan was closed on March 31, 1994, and the ADB/ADF Loan was
extended to March, 1995. As of the loan closing date, the entire amount of the
loan (US$ 80 million) had been fully utilized. In addition to the slow start,
the pace of loan disbursement also suffered a set back in 1992/1993, but was
accelerated in 1993/1994. About 71t of the IBRD Loan (US$57.4 million) financed
import of farm machinery and spare parts, 281 (US$22.4 million) agro-related
businesses, and less than 1% (US$0.3 million) import of fertilizer.      The
project's Special Account with the Union des Banques Arabes et Francaises (UBAF)
of New York was closed in August 1993.   Experience of dealers with UBAF and
submission of replenishment applications under the Special Account during the
project implementation indicate room for improvement. With respect to Special
Commitments with outstanding balances, it was agreed, during the last IBRD
supervision mission, that the Bank's obligation against the three special
commitments would cease as of the loan closing date, and that the remaining
balance in the loan of about US$1.8 million would be disbursed against Withdrawal
Application No. 66, which was in an amount of US$2.1 million.
Audit of Accounts
11.   IBRD was provided with the report on the audit of project accounts and the
Special Account as of June 30, 1993, carried out by the Central Audit
Organization. The Audit Report, which covers the externally financed portion of
the project by the IBRD, the African Development Bank, and the African
Development Fund, contains comments on the need to improve recording of local
expenditures.


﻿- 41 -                       Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
12.   Due to the inadequate record system for recording and accounting of project
expenditures, the mission was not able to obtain from PBDAC the project
expenditures break down by year. Such information is crucial for the evaluation
of the project. The mission noted that, over the past several years and still
on-going, there were a review of the Cost Accounting System of PBDAC (conducted
by Cairo University) and a review of the Internal Control System (carried out by
Badawy & Khalid Accounting Firm). The mission requested that both reports be
provided to the Bank when completed (with one expected to be finished within the
next month). The mission also noted that the audit report of 1993/1994 will be
submitted to the IBRD in late December, 1994.
Summary of Findings
13.   The  Second Agricultural Development Project has been       carried out
satisfactorily.   It is having a favorable impact on overall development of
agricultural machinery trade and there has been some improvement in the
efficiency of PBDAC's loan process. To a certain extent, the liberalization of
trade and rationalization of tariffs relating to agricultural and agro-industrial
machinery and equipment has facilitated growth and investment in the sector.
14.   with the liberalization measures that become effective in early 1990,
PBDAC's role in the distribution of agricultural inputs has diminished
drastically.   To position itself as a credit bank, PBDAC is facing a major
challenge.   In view of the market driven environment in which PBDAC has to
function in the future, the mission noted that, in the short run, it would be
difficult for PBDAC to compete with commercial banks in its lending rate.
Currently, PBDAC's administrative costs are about 50% higher than that of the
commercial banks. Despite actions underway to streamline its lending operations
(including a plan for 6,856 staff separations in three years), the mission
believes that, in the short term, it would be difficult for PBDAC to achieve
"cost leadership" in the market place (i.e., the ability to offer the lowest
lending rate because of economies of scale) . However, with its network that
includes 17 affiliated Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC), 801
village banks, and 4300 agencies, PBDAC could consider moving its market strategy
in the direction of quality differentiation through the provision of better
service. Another possibility would be to focus on the market niche of aiming at
the rural areas where the village bank is the only source of financing.
15.   The mission observed the following areas which would require attention:
(a) At the village banks, there appears to be no systematic approach for
the evaluation of loan applications. All applications were approved or denied
on an ad-hoc basis. As a first step, PBDAC should develop a set of guidelines
to facilitate loan processing and train the officers in its application. There
is also a need to develop an awareness among the potential borrowers.      The
mission suggests this issue be addressed in the content of the implementation of
the Agricultural Modernization Project.
(b) Record keeping appeared to be another major problem at the village
banks. While visiting the village banks and meeting with farmers, the mission
noted that record keeping at the village banks is far from desirable. Multiple


﻿- 42 -                       Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
records exist on the same loan. Since it is difficult to find out the exact
balance of a specific loan, disputes occurred frequently between the village bank
officers and farmers. As a result, many farmers hesitate to use village banks
as their financing sources. The mission noted that the Management Information
System (MIS) currently being developed under ADB/ADF financing would cover all
village banks, and that the System is expected to be completed in 1996. The
mission urged PBDAC to pay particular attention to this issue.
(c) Market information is another concern at the village level. With the
availability of agriculture credit, farmers are anxious in finding out ways to
generate additional income.   The mission understood that the Extension and
Marketing Project currently under preparation will focus on addressing these
concerns.
(d) Different interest rates are charged under different projects.
Currently, there are several sources of funds which offer subsidized rates for
rural credits.  Such sources include the Social Fund for Development (SFD),
USAID's WID Project, and KFW's Credit Line Project.   Better coordination is
required at the national level, and steps should be developed to avoid any
adverse effects on overall development objectives in Egypt.
Sue C. Lysy
Task Manager, IBRD
Cairo
November 21, 1994


﻿IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX FOR PBDAC
--------ACTUAL---------  -----------------PROJECTED------------------
ITEM                Unit    FY 90    FY 91    FY 92    FY 93   FY 94    FY 95    FY 96    FY 97
Market Rate of Interest 1/                  20.0%    20.0%    20.0%    17.3%   14.0%    15.0%    16.0%    16.5%
Inflation Rate 1/                           15.0%    19.6%   21.1%    11.2%     9.8%     6.5%    6.8%     7.6%
Avg. Cost - Concessional Finds 2/            4.1%     7.6%     9.2%    12.0%   12.0%    11.9%    11.8%    11.7%
Average Concessional Borrowings  LE Nil    188.0    295.0    389.5   449.0    499.0    562.3    642.3   742.3
Subsidy on Borrowings            LE Nil     29.9     36.6     42.1    23.8     10.0     17.4     27.0    35.6
Average Equity 3/                LE Nil    480.5    567.0    656.0   770.9    967.4   1156.2   1235.5   1308.5
Subsidy on Equity                LE Nit     96.1    113.4    131.2   133.4    135.4    173.4    197.7   215.9
Direct Interest stbsidies        LE Nil    112.0    109.0     63.9    46.0     23.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Subsidy on Reserve Exemption 4/  LE NiL    133.1    159.8     98.3    97.3     89.7    107.2    122.6   135.3
Total Sasidy 5/                 LE Nil    371.1    418.7    335.5   300.4    258.1    298.1    347.3   386.8
Profit before Tax 6/             LE Nil    251.0    205.0    123.7    40.5    109.9    159.8    218.0   289.5
Percent Share of Banking Operation          60.0%    70.0%    75.0%   83.0%    87.0%    92.0%   98.0%   100.0%
Profit Attributed to Banking     LE Nit    150.6    143.5     92.8    33.6     95.6    147.0    213.6   289.5
Interest Income                  LE Nit    394.0    495.0   610.5    660.9    750.4    922.3  1106.3   1278.1
Suasidy Dependence Index                    56.0%    55.6%    39.80   40.4%    21.7%    16.4%    12.10    7.60
Average Total Loans              LE Nil                             478               5079.0   5746.9  6450.4
Average Lending Rate                        13.0%    13.4%    15.4%   16.1%    16.6%    18.2%    19.3%   19.8%
Increase in Landing Rate Reqd. 7/            7.3%     7.5%    6.1%     6.5%     3.6%    3.0%     2.3%     1.5%
Lowest Sustainable Interest Rate            20.2%    20.9%   21.5%    22.6%    20.2%    21.1%   21.6%    21.3%
1/ Based on 6 mnth treasury bill rate with allowance of 1% for risk premium.
For FY90, when there was no issue of treasury bills, the rate for FY 91 is used.
Inflation rates and 6-mnth Treasury Bil( interest rates were based on projctions of MN2CO.
2/ Consists only of foreign loans.
3/ Equity Includes paid up share capital, reserves and capital grants.
4/ Reserve requirements were 25% upto Deceter 1991, and 15% thereafter.
5/ Total subsidy is a sal of concessions which PBDAC receives from
access to funds at below mrket interest rates, foregone income on
equity inputed at mrket rate of return, direct interest sabsidies
and implicit sasidy resulting from exemption of PBDAC from
reserve requirements.
6/ Profit before tax for FY 92 includes LE 29.0 million extraordinary expense
(early retiremnt compensation) added back
7/ Although dependence on subsidies can be reduced by other methods (eg.
cutting costs such as adiinistrative costs), increasing interest
income is used for convenience.


﻿- 44 -                    Appendix C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Appendix C: Borrower's Final Evaluation Report on the Project
The Borrower's Project Completion Report is on file at the ECA/MENA Information
Center.


﻿SENT BY:PBDAC          _2-  2-95  ;12:23AM
Appendix C
Attachment I
Wbr 61 W,j  47I   W-e
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEV. & AGIR. CREDIT                   -7 -5
Second Agriculturol Dev. Project
FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION
FACSIMILE NO. ( 9011202 ) 3541494
26/2/1995
DATE a                             Mrs. Sue C. Lysy
Senior Financial Analyst
'ADRESSEE3                          Natural resources, water and Enviroment
Divisi on.
Country Department II.
Middle East & North Africa Region,
Message No. :     (64)             No. of pages 1    (including this page)
FROM:
Dr. Hassan khedr.
Chairman.
Principal Bank for Dev. & Agric. Credit
PODAC - CAIRO - EGYPT.
MESSAGEs
pear Mrs. Lysy:
Thank you for the ICR report for the Second Agricultural
Dev. Project which was sent to us by your FAX dated
February 21,1995.   We have no more comments on the report,
and thus we confirm our clearance.
Please accept my personal regards.
Yours Faithfully,
(Dr. Heas:n  Khedr.  )
e--)                           Chairman
P Incipal Bank for Dev. & Agric. Credit
PBDAC - Cairo - EGYPT.


﻿
﻿IBRD 18377
JULY 1984
C-
Lu
oc                    4
0
- >-o
UJ                 h     e
o --
-        XI   93      / o
49                  é  '-o        4
00
z<
0   (j  ý
4  201
--  ----
8sa o  (å
noe/o)
4.U*                       b


﻿
﻿
﻿
