Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1856 SO
         (Technical Assistance for the Baardhere Project)
                              between
                    SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated January 4, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1856 SO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January  4,  1988, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit  Agreements"  of  the  Association,  dated  January 1,
1985, with the last sentence  of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  May  17, 1986, and June 4, 1986,
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "Special Project Preparation  Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by  the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters,  dated  May  3,  1986, and May 3, 1986,
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  from  the  Special Project
Preparation  Facility  for  Sub-Saharan   Africa  created  by  the
Executive Directors of the Bank on January 8, 1985;
     (d)  "MJVD" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Juba Valley
Development; and
     (e)  "Baardhere  Dam"  means  the   multipurpose  dam  to  be
constructed on the Juba River  near  the  town of Baardhere in the
Borrower's territory.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to four
million   three   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 4,300,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the  Bank  an  amount  required  to repay the principal
amount of the  Special  Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Special
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1990,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after  the  date  of  this  Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The  commitment  charge  shall  be  paid:  (i)  at  such
places as the Association  shall  reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15,  1998,  and  ending  September 15, 2027. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 15, 2007, shall  be  one  percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at  any  time  after  a  modification  of  the terms
pursuant to paragraph (b)  above,  the Association determines that
the Borrower's economic  condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may,  if  so  requested  by  the Borrower, further
modify the  terms  of  repayment  to  conform  to  the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of  Juba  Valley  Development  with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering  practices,  and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  (a)  The   Borrower  shall,  not  later  than
January 1,  1988,  establish  within  MJVD  a  core  advisory team
whose head shall be  the  director  and  whose other members shall
include:  (i)  one  economist;  (ii)  one  agriculture specialist;
(iii)  one  irrigation  specialist;  (iv)  one  electro-mechanical
engineer; (v)  one  procurement/administration  officer;  (vi) one
senior  dam  engineer;  (vii)  one  power/transmission specialist;
and (viii) one  specifications  engineer;  all  to  be selected in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     (b)  The  core  advisory   team   shall  be  responsible  for
assisting in: (i) coordinating  and evaluating the recommendations
of the  various  studies  being  carried  out  by  the Borrower in
preparation  for  the  construction  of  the  Baardhere  dam; (ii)
coordinating  the  appraisal  and  processing  procedures  of  the
various cofinanciers of  the  Baardhere  dam; (iii) reviewing cost
estimates, financing plan  and  annual  budgets  for the Baardhere
dam; (iv) formulating recommendations  for water and power charges
and  related  institutional  arrangements  for  the  operation and
maintenance of the Baardhere dam; and (v) supervising the training
program of MJVD.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  submit to the Association
for  approval  the   qualification,   experience,  and  terms  and
conditions of employment of each Somali national to be employed to
the core  advisory  team  referred  to  in  Section  3.03  of this
Agreement before any such person is employed.
     Section 3.05. In  carrying  out  Part  C  of  the Project the
Borrower shall submit  to  the  Association  for approval: (a) the
qualifications  of  each  Somali  national  selected  for training
before such person undertakes such  training; and (b) the proposed
position within MJVD  such  person  will  assume  on completion of
studies.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.O1. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Mogadishu
          Somalia
Page  6
          Cable address:
                MINFIN                                            M
ogadishu
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ A. A. Addou
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                   200,000       100%
(2)  Vehicles,                     300,000       100%
     furniture and
     equipment
(3)  Consultants'                2,010,000       100%
     services
(4)  Training                      570,000       100%
(5)  Refunding of                  590,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Page  7
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Refunding of                 390,000        Amount due pur-
     Special Project                             suant to Section
     Preparation                                 2.02 (d) of this
     Advance                                     Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                  240,000
                                _________
     TOTAL                      4,300,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 79,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1,
1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to strengthen the institu-
tional  capacity  of  the   Borrower's  Ministry  of  Juba  Valley
Development to  supervise  the  preparation  of  the Baardhere Dam
Project.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Establishment of Core Advisory Team in MJVD
     Strengthening MJVD's capacity to  supervise studies and other
preparatory work,  including  pre-appraisal  and  appraisal of the
Baardhere  Dam  Project  through:  (i)  establishment  of  a  core
advisory team within  MJVD;  (ii)  acquisition  of vehicles, spare
parts and  other  transportation  equipment, furniture, computers,
telex  facilities   and   other   office   equipment;   and  (iii)
construction of storage and transit facilities.
Part B:   Studies
     Carrying out: (i)  power  optimization  and other studies for
the proposed  Baardhere  dam;  and  (ii)  revision  of engineering
documents,  pre-qualification   and   tender   documents  for  the
Baardhere dam.
Part C:   Training
     Local and overseas training  for  MJVD staff in dam engineer-
ing,  power  management,   irrigated   agriculture  and  financial
management.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  8
Part A:
1.   Vehicles,  furniture  and  equipment  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the "Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD Loan and IDA Credits"
published  by  the  Bank  in  May  1985  (the  Guidelines)  and in
accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Except as provided  in  Part  B  hereof,  civil  works may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:   Direct Contracting
     Contracts for civil works  under  Part  A of the Project may,
with the prior  approval  of  the  Association,  be procured under
contracts negotiated with the  company  constructing the road from
Baardhere town to the  site  of  Baardhere dam, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract for vehicles, furniture,
equipment and civil  works  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts will be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  engineering,  management and financial
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
2.   The table  below  specified  the  consultants  to be employed
Page  9
under the Project:
          Consultant                            Duration
     (a)  Core Team Leader                   18 man-months
     (b)  Economist                          18 man-months
     (c)  Agriculture Specialist             18 man-months
     (d)  Irrigation Specialist              18 man-months
     (e)  Electromechanical Engineer         18 man-months
     (f)  Procurement and Administration     18 man-months
          Specialist
          Consultant                            Duration
     (g)  Senior Dam Engineer/Advisor        18 man-months
     (h)  Power and Transmission             12 man-months
          Specialist
     (i)  Specification Engineer             15 man-months
     (j)  Members of the panel of            48 man-months
          experts and other short-term
          consultants
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take necessary measures to ensure that the following program
is followed in implementing the Project:
         Major Activity                          Timetable
     1.  Recruitment of Consultants':
         Recruitment core advisory team       To be completed by
         leader and Somali staff                April 1, 1988
         Recruitment resident advisors        To be completed by
         for core advisory team                 April 1, 1988
     2.  Review of Ongoing Studies:
         Review findings of agricultural,     To be completed by
         environmental, resettlement,           April 1, 1988
         institutional, and power studies
         Comprehensive analysis of            To be completed by
         project costs, financing,              May 1, 1988
         and implementation
         arrangements
     3.  Assistance During Project
         Processing:
         Assistance during donor              January 1988 to
                                                July 1990
         appraisal and negotiation
         procedures and coordination
         between donors.
Page  10
         Contacts with panel of               January 1988 to
         experts                                December 1989
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means  Categories 1 to 4
set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly  from  the  Credit  Account  in accordance
               with the provisions  of  Article  V  of the General
Page  11
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to   the   eligible   Categories,  minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
