*  c-meut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reqpwt No. P-553O-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 6 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
FOR A
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
MAY 24, 1991
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipienu only in the performance of
:eir oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Comorian Franc (CF) is pegged to the French Franc (FF) at the
rate of FF 1 = CF 50.
US$1 = CF
Year                                Annual Average
1985                                     449
1986                                     346
1987                                     301
1988                                      298
1989                                      319
1990                                     272
Weights and Measures  - Metric system
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB          'African Development Bank
AfDF           African Development Fund
BADEA          Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de l'Afrique
BDC            Banque de Developpement des Comores
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CF             Comorian Franc
COMOTEL        Societe comorienne de tourisme et d'hotellerie
DB             Budget Directorate
DEP            Directorate of Public Enterprises
DGP            General Directorate of Planning
ECU            European Currency Unit
EC             European Community
EDF            European Development Fund
EEDC           Eau et Electricite des Comores
ECOPOR         Etablissement Comorien des Ports
FAC            Fond d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IsDB           Islamic Development Bank
MERCAP         Macro-Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit
NGO            Non Government Organization
ONICOR         Office national d'importation et de commercialisation du riz
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPT            Office des Postes et Telecommunications
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PMS            Project Management Secretariat
SAF            Structural Adjustment Facility
SCH            Societe comorienne des hydrocarbures
SPA            Special Program of Assistance
SOCOVIA        Societe comorienne d'importation de viande
SONACOR        Societ  de navigation, de consignation et de representation
UAF            African Development Fund - Unit of Account
UNDP           United Nations Devalopment Program
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Islamic Lederal Regublic of Comosos
Macro-Economic Reform and Capacitv Buildint Credit (MERCAP)
Table of Contente
Pate
Credit and Program Summary                                          (i-U.)
I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . . . .  1
A.    Recent Economic Developments. ......... ......  1
B.    Initial Adjustment Progress ..... . . .   .....   ...   5
C.   Medium-Term Prospects and External Capital Requirements . .  7
D.    Bank Group Assistance Strategy  . . . . . . e .  * s   *    11
II.  THE PROPOSED MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT . 13
A.    The Policy-Based Component. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 14
(M)   Civil Service Reform . v . . . . v . . . . . . e . v 14
(ii)  Public Enterprise Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
(iii)  Public Expenditure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
(iv)  Competitiveness and Private Sector Incentives . . . . 19
(V)   Social and Environmental Aspects. .     .  .  .  . . . . . . 21
B.   The Capacity-Building Component. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..22
(i)   Background and Justification for IDA Involvement. . . 22
(ii)   Focus and Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
(iii) MERCAP-Supported Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
III. SPECIFIC FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
A.    Credit History . . . . . 2 a  . . . . . . . . . &  . . * . 0.25
B.   Financing andMandgMagementnt   ..  ....25
C.   Monitorable Actions . . . . . . . .              . . .  .27
D.    Benefits and Risks      .. .. ..... .. . .. .    ... 29
IV. RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ANNEXES
I.  Selected Economic Indicators, Balance of Payments, External
Capital Requirements  .  .  .  .  . . . . . .   .         . . .  . . . . . .31
II.  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
III. Status of Bank Group Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . 35
IV.  Technical Annex - Capacity Building Component  . . . . . . . . . . 36
V.   Letter of Development Policy          48.......
VI.  Policy Matrix        . . . .   . .          . .   . *           9 60
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performanc 1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatio



1.  Selected Economic Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
2.  Public Investment Program, 1991-93. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.  Distribution of IDA Lending . * *. .       ...  ..                12
4.  Gap Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
TEXT FIGUR
1.  External Financing        ........ . . .. . .... ... .   10



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFOR! AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT (MERCAP)
CREDIT MAD PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowers                   Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
Amount:                     IDA Credits SDR 6 million (US$ 8 million
equivalent, of which US$ 6 million for the
policy-based component and US$ 2 million for the
capacity-building component)
Co-financing:               AfDF:  UAF 13 million (US$ 17 million
equivalent)
EC:    ECU 5 million (US$ 7 million equivalent)
UNDP: US$ 1 million in related TA projects
FAC:  FF 70 million (US$ 13 million equivalent)
in budgetary support for 1991 and
FF 3 million (US$ 0.6 million equivalent)
in related TA projects
Terms:                      IDA credit:      Standard IDA Terms
AfDF:           Standard AfDF Terms
EC, UNDP, FACs  Grants
ProsrAm
Descriptions                The objective of the proposed program is to lay
the foundation for economic growth by improving
the enabling environment for private sector
activity, while streamlining the public sector
and restoring financial stability to the
country. This operation is built on policies
described in the first Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) for 1991-1993 and is designed to address
the most urgent issues facing Comoros -- a small
Franc-zone country, with a weak administration
and limited growth potential. Specifically, the
proposed operation would support policy measures
to: (i) streamline the civil service; (ii)
withdraw the state from productive and
commercial activities, and rationalize the
remaining public enterprises; (iii) establish a
process of public expenditure programming and
ensure a 'safety netw of social expenditure;
(iv) improve the incentives framework for
private investment; and (v) develop local
institutional capacity in economic management.



Benefits
and riskes                  The proposod MERCAP, complemented by an IMF SAF,
Is expected to restore economic and financial
stability to the country and improve incentives
for private sector development. In addition, it
would help mobilize external support for the
Goverment's efforts to deal with the economic
situation and build a national consensus in
favor of reform. However, there are political,
financial, and technical risks in view of the
history of the Comoros, and weak administrative
capacity. These risks are minimized by: (i)
upfront implementation of several key measures;
(ii) France's support for civil service reform,
institution building, and increased budgetary
assistance; (iii) technical assistance to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget, and
Planning; (iv) appointmant of an IMF Resident
Representative; and (v) establishment of a
Ministerial Commission, assisted by a Permanent
Technical Committee (composed of qualified staff
from key ministries), to monitor the program.
Estimated
Disbursements:              The policy-based component of the Credit would
be disbursed in two equal tranches, one on
effectiveness and the other approximately one
year thereafter, following implementation of
second tranche release conditions. The
capacity-building component would be disbursed
over three years (1991-1993) against normal
documentation submitted to the Bank.
Appraisal Report:           There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Map:                        IBRD 20700



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
FOR A MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Macro-
Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit (MERCAP) of SDR 6 million (US$
8 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms, to the Islamic Federal Republic
of Comoros to support the Government's economic reform program. The amount
proposed would be apportioned between the policy-reform component (US$ 6
million) and the capacity-building component (US$ 2 million). Financing is
also expected to be provided by the African Development Fund, in the amount
of UAY 13 million (US$ 17 million equivalent). The IMF Executive Directors
are expected to consider the Government's request for a first drawing under
the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP) covering 1991-93 for an amount of
SDR 3.1 million (US$ 4 million equivalent) in June 1991. Parallel financing
is expected from the European Community (EDF) for about ECU 5 million (US$ 7
million equivalent), UNDP for US$ I million for technical assistance support,
and French bilateral aid (FAC) for FF 3 million (USS 0.6 million equivalent)
for technical assistance and PF 70 million (US$ 13 million equivalent) for
budgetary support in 1991.
2.      A report entitled "The Comoros - The Arduous Path to Economic Growths
The Need for Adjustment" (Report No. 6690-COM) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in August 1987. Recent economic work has been carried
out in connection with the preparation of the PFP and the MERCAP and is
reflected in part I of this report.  Part I of this report anol-es the
country's economic performance, its development policies and prospects, and
the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II describes the content of the
proposed operation.   Part III sets out the features of the proposed
operation.    Data  on key  economic  indicators  and  external  financing
requirements are provided in Annex I.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Economic Devwlovments
Overvie
3.      The Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros became independent in 1975.
It has a GNP per capita of about US$ 460 (1989) and a population of about
460,000.   The history of Comoros since independence has been marred by
political turmoil; however, there have been major positive political changes
in the Comoros following the assassination of President Abdallah in November



- 2 -
1989.    Political  restrictions  were  lifted,  a multiparty  system wes
Introduced, and a coalition government was formed after open presidential
elections in March 1990. The new coalition goverrment has strived to improve
governance, build up economic management capacity and liberalize the economy.
4.      At  independence,  the  country  found  itself with  virtually  no
Infrastructure and low education and health standards.  Since then, with
support from the international community, economic and social infrastructure
has Improved. The country now has a fairly well-developed road network, an
International airport, and a deep-water port In the Island of Anjousn. In
the social area, too, some improvement has been achieved: life expectancy has
Increased from 51 years in 1975 to 56 years at present, and primary school
enrollment from 46 to 62 percent. Comoros Is a predominantly rural country
and highly dependent on external assistance. About 40 percent of GDP derives
from agriculture, 50 percent from trade and other services, and 10 percent
from manufacturing and construction combined.   Because of rudimentary
agricultural practices and inadequate marketing systems, food production is
insufficient to meet local requirements and the country has been importing
large quantities of rice and meat.   The manufacturing sector Is modest,
consisting primarily of the processing of exports crops -ad a few small
factories supplying the domestic market. Tourism is still at an incipient
stage.
5.      The country's economic prospects are constrained by structural
problemss (a) a very small domestic market; (b) geographic remoteness and
segmentation over several islands; and (c) limited natural resources.   In
addition, the high population growth of 3.3 percent per year puts pressure on
the alreedy fragile ecosystem and the limited capacity of the educational and
health systems to provide adequate basic services; exports are concentrated
on three commodities (vanilla, cloves and perfume esseaces--of which vanilla
and cloves face an unfavorable world market); and the economy is currently
uncompetitive owing to a high cost structure linked to the exchange rate.
Export earnings, which have been eroded with the terms-of-trade deterioration
of recent years, covered around 40 percent of imports on average.
Consequently, long-term prospects are uncertain in the absence of reforms
that would address key constraints and existing distortions.
Real Sector Developments
6.      The Comoros economy has been in a state of crisis since the mid-
1980s. After relatively rapid economic growth in the early 1980s (about 7
percent a year), achieved mainly through an ambitious but unproductive public
investment program, real GDP growth slowed gradually to reach an estimated
0.4 percent in  1989.   The decline In construction and public works,
ati.ributable to the completion of several large infrastructure projects and
the lack of foreign financing for new projects, offset the increases in
agriculture (averaging about 4.5 percent a year). The services sector was
severely hurt as tourist arrivals dropped steadily due mostly to high cost
and political unrest in 1989, leading to a temporary closing down of the two
major hotels. The economy is estimated to have grown modestly in 1990 (about
1.5 percent) owing to an increase in vanilla production and a slight pick-ur
in housing and trade.



- 3 -
7.      Puiblic investment declined from 16 percent of GDP in 1986 to 6
percent by 1990 as a result of a fall In external aid reflecting the
country's difficulty In keeping up with its debt service obligations. This
low level of public investment is insufficient to maintain the existing
capital stock.   Domestic savings were consistently negative and fell from
-3.4 percent of GDP in mid-1980s to an estimated -5.5 percent in 1990. Since
1985, the decline in economic activity, combined with a deterioration in the
terms of trade, has led to a 14 percent decline In per capita consumption.
Table 1 summariaes the trend of selected economic indicators.
Table 1: Selected Economc ldltstuore
1986     1987           1988 1999     100
GOP, growth rate                2.2       2.6       1.0      0.4       1.5
ross Investment/DP j/          20.8      16.6      12.5     11.4      10.8
Dometkic savings/GOP           -3.4      -7.2      -7.3     -4.9      -5.5
Public Investment/COP          16.8      11.7       7.9      6.9       6.2
Government r.vsu./CDPZJ        14.6      12.0      14.9     14.1      17.4
Government expenditur          47.6      86.9      81       38.4      86.2
o/w wag" and ealaries/COP       9.2      9.0        9.9      9.7      S0.2
Primary doticit/P ?J/          -1.7      -3.8      -2.9     -3.7      40.7
Ovor ll budgetary  deficit/W  -33.0    -24.9      -28.2    -24.8    -17.0
Consumer price index (1985m1l)    108.3    111.9  112.2    117.4    122.1
Annual averag changes (C)     8.8       8.3       0.8       4.8      4.6
Exports, (NFS) growth rate      5.1      -9.6      C4.7    -11.1    -19.8
Inport, (CUES) groth rate      -2.6      1.1        0.0    -17.2      -3.7
Current account balance/GDP !I    -29.1    -30.8  -22.0    -16.7    -19.7
Debt service ratio §/          21.9      80.C      24.4     23.2      25.7
/  Excludes change In stocks.
V  Excluding grants.
I  Primary dibit a government revenue les non-interest current hudgetary expnldture.
i t   paymnt order basis; excluding grant.
V Excluding offieil transfers and capit.l grants.
S/c led Interest and amortizatton (excluding the repymnts of arrear).
Fiscal and Monetary Performance
8.      Government finances are In severe structural difficulty because of
the steady increase in the wage bill due to a bloated civil service, the
weakness of the revenue base, the prevailing under-collection of taxes, and
the Instability of external trade.  The primary deficit, defined as total
government revenue lses non-interest current budgetary expenditure, averaged
around 3 percent of GDP In 1986-1989 and the overall budget deficit,
excluding grants, averaged about 26 percent of GDP.  Whereas government
revenue increased by 8.3 percent over that same period, current budgetary
expeaditures rose by almost 23 percent, mainly because of increases In the
size of the civil service and the wage bill, which represents about 10
percent of GDP (despite the fact that salaries for civil servants have been
frozen for the past several years).



9.      In 1990, however, owing to reform measures initiated to improve
public finances, the primary deficit declined to 0.7 percent of GDP and the
overall deficit, excluding grants, was reduced to 18 percent of GDP.  This
mainly reflected a sharp cutback in capital expenditures In response to a
fall In external aid; Improved efforts to collect taxes and customs duties
(as a condition of French budgetary support); and large transfers to the
budget of the dividends of the two profitable public enterprises (the rice
and petroleum importing monopolies). Despite these recent improvements in
the public finance situation, the Government suffers from chronic illiquidity
problemst there are long delays in meeting the civil service payroll, and
domestic and external arrears have been accumulating. By end-1990, domestic
arrears reached nearly US$40 million, an amount higher than the entire annual
fiscal revenue. The financial situation of the public enterprises has also
become a cause for concern due to deficient financial accounts, weak
management, and the overall contraction of the economy.
10.     The Comorian franc is pegged to the French franc at the fixed rate of
FF 1 - CF 50 within the framework of a currency arrangement with France
similar to that of the other member countries of the Franc zone. The nominal
exchange rate of the Comorian franc vis-a-vis US dollar has appreciated by
about 60 percent over the 1985-1990 period and the real effective exchange
rate (trade-weighted) has appreciated by less than 25 percent during the same
period. This reflects lower inflation in the Comoros compared to its trade
partners. The annual rate of inflation, which averaged 7 percent In 1985-
1986, fell to less than 4 percent during 1987-1990.
Balance of Paiments
11.     Export earnings have been adversely affected by sluggish world demand
for vanilla and cloves and the appreciation of the Comorian franc vis-a-vis
the US dollar. Receipts from exports of vanilla have been fluctuating widely
and account for, on average, about 60 percent of merchandise exports.
Exports of perfume essence (mostly ylang-ylang) represent 25 percent of
exports of merchandise exports. Earnings from tourism represent less than 10
percent of total export. Rice Is the largest food Import, accounting for
about 18 percent of merchandises imports. The main trading partners of the
Comoros include France, the U.S., the Gulf States, other EC countries, South
Africa, and Thailand. The current account deficit Improved from 29 percent
of GDP in 1986 to 17 percent of GDP in 1989; this was due largely to an
increase in ylang-ylang exports and a significant decline in imports due to
the contraction of the economy. However, the balance of payments situation
deteriorated in 1990 because of higher oil prices and a 10 percent decline in
export earnings due largely to a drop in the volume of vanilla and cloves
exports.   Despite the increase in crop production, vanilla exports were
reduced as a result of litigation with one of the main trade partners (now
settled), leading to the accumulation of large vanilla stocks by the end of
1990.   Overall, the negative Impact of the Gulf crisis on Comoros is
estimated at about US$ 2 million, or about 1 percent of GDP.



hne External Debt Arrears Problem
12.    As a consequence of the surge in public Investment In the early
1980s, external debt increased from US$ 43 million in 1980 to US$188 million
at end-1988. As a result of the Dakar Agreement, in 1989 Franee canceled its
debt to Comoros for an amount of approximately US$ 29 million, thus reducing
total debt stock to around US$ 160 million at end-1989 (over 80 percent of
GDP). With this cancellation, the debt owed to countries and institutions
participating in the Paris or the London Clubs is minimal. Nearly 47 percent
of the debt is owed to Arab creditors, 23 percent to the African Development
Bank (including AfDF) and 22 percent to IDA. Arrears on external debt (see
para.9) amounted to about US$ 42 million at end-1990, of which 70 percent is
owed to Arab creditors and 26 percent to the African Development Bank.
Because of the country's difficulty in keeping up with Its debt service
obligations, disbursements from external credits have virtually dried up,
dropping from US$ 22 million in 1985 to US$ 9 million in 1989. Although most
of the debt was contracted on concessional terms, the scheduled debt service
ratio rose steadily to reach about 26 percent in 1990.   Although the
scheduled debt service ratio is expected to remain roughly unchanged over the
next few years, the repayment of sizeable arrears will substantially Increase
the actual debt service payments in 1991-92. A resumption of International
assistance hinges ons (i) the confidence that better governance is able to
generate; (ii) the adoption of an adjustment program, supported by the Bank
and the Fund; and (iii) a resolution of the arrears problem.
B. Initial Adjustment Proaress
13.     The new Governmant started to implement a number of significant
measures in 1990 to lay the foundation for growth in the medium-term and
beyond. These measures, which had been discussed earlier with Bank and Fund
staff, are consistent with those envisaged in the Government's first Policy
Framework Paper. These measures also constitute part of the up-front actions
supported by the proposed credit.
14.    As regards public finance, the Government has begun to improve tax
collection through reorganization of the customs and tax offices, and
abolition of certain tax exemptions. On the expenditure side, the first step
toward better financial control has been taken with the appointment of an
expenditure controller. Salaries for civil servants have remained frozen and
civil service allowances (e.g., for housing, cars, utilities) have been
reduced. As the first stage of an effort to streamline and reform the civil
service, a census of the civil service was launched in October 1990. The
census was completed in January 1991 and the irregularities discovered are
being corrected.
15.     In the narapublic seator, the government has taken some meaningful
initial steps. With assistance from UNoP and France, audits of 11 major
enterprises have been completed, and their results have served to formulte
the strategy in the parastatal sector as well as specific policy measures as
described in the PFP and the proposed MERCAP. To improve transparency in the
use of funds, surpluses from the rice Importing monopoly and the petroleum
import company have been incorporated into the budget. Finally, a uniform



- 6 -
accounting system for all public and private enterprises has been designed;
the proposed coedit will support its implementation.
16.     To Improve exnort competitivcness, the Government has reduced by more
than 50 percent the export taxes on vanilla and eliminated the taxes on
cloves and copra. Moreover, with the abolition of the Stabilization Fund in
July 1990, levies on all export crops by the Fund have been eliminated. At
the same time, the authorities have stimulated competition in vanilla trade
by reducing the m.inimum yearly export for entry into the market from 15 to 5
tons and, to increase production, have raised the producer price for vanilla
by nearly 40 percent to CF 2,500 per kilo, or 65 percent of the export price.
rhe Government has also launched a major agricultural ntrategy study with
UNDP and Bank assistance. This study is expected to provide a basis for new
policies to improve agricultural production and marketing as well as to
preserve the environment.
17.     The Government has also opened up competition in the domestic market.
For instance, the vanilla trade, which was closely controlled by four
traders, Is now liberalized and several new exporters have entered the
market. Similar developments have been occurring in various commercial and
service activities.
18.     With regard to social and environmental concerns, the authorities
have changed their attitude toward family planning. With assistance of the
Bank and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), important
strides have been made in mobilizing commitment to family planning by
political and religious leaders. The availability of family planning and
related maternal and child-care services has Improved substantially.   In
education and training, a program is underway with IDA and bilateral support
to upgrade manpower skills and increase access to basic education.   The
Government has adopted a 10-year program for soil conservation and
reforestation for the island of Anjouan, the most seriously affected island
by soil erosion and the most overpopulated Island. Pilot projects for the
development of terraces to prevent erosion have been undertaken and
reforestation projects are planned. The Government has reduced the price of
kerosene to encourage p- 'ple to use it instead of firewood.   Private
euterprises have been encouraged to crush pozzolana (lava rock) as a
substitute for sea sand in construction, in order to protect the coastal
areas from further environmental degradation.
19.     While the measures taken In 1990 are encouraging, the new government
recognizes the need to broaden economic reform, and has collaborated closely
with Bank and IMF staff in the formulation of a coherent adjustment program
which could be supported by both institutions. This program will require
substantial external assistance. A satisfactory resolution of the serious
arrears problem Is a prerequisite for mobilizing this assistance. Moreover,
the adjustment measures are expected to have an adverse short-term impact on
employment, particulstrly in the civil service. Accordingly, the authorities
have sought to identify, with support from donors, effective means to cushion
this impact and to provide appropriate relief to those who will be severely
affected.



C. Iledium-Term Prospects and External Capital Reauirements
20.     The objectives of the Government program as outlined in the PFP for
1991-93 are tot (1) create an environment that over the medium-tezm will
allow for improvements In per capita income while maintaining financial
stability; (ii) significantly reduce the internal and external imbalances and
restore normal relations with external creditors and donors; (ill) contain
the Inflation rate to a level below that of partner countries, which would
lead to gradual improvement in the competitiveness of the Comorian economy;
and (iv) in the long term, alleviate demographic pressures and their adverse
effects on the environment.
21.     Real GDP is targeted to grow at an average annual rate of about 3
percent in 1991-93 and at a somewhat higher rate thereafter. This moderate
growth would come from the recovery of activities generated by the recently
adopted public investment program (PIP) and by the gradual increase in output
In productive sectors and services.   This would be encouraged by reform
measures to improve the general economic climate and incentives for privato
Investment, both in the formal and informal sectors.
22.     In public finance, the objective is to maintain the fiscal deficit at
a manageable level, reduce current expenditure and strengthen budget
formulation and monitoring. The overall deficit, excluding grants and on a
payment order basis, will be held to 17.3 percent of GDP in 1991, but will
Initially increase to 20.8 percent in 1992 before coming down to 16.9 percent
in 1993, due primarily to new public investment projects with a focus on
infrastructure rehabilitation (see para. 24 and 25).  It is Important to
stress that these targets include the elimination of all domestic and
external payments arrears, which amount to about US$ 82 million, or over one
third of GDP.  Consequently, the program entails an improvement in the
underlining fiscal situation and its sustainability.   Because discrete
exchange rate adjustments are not possible due to the country's membership in
the Franc zone, gains in external competitiveness require keeping down
Inflation, reducing labor costs and improving productivity.   Thus, the
Government will follow a prudent monetary policy designed to hold annual
Inflation below the 4 percent rate registered in 1989-90. If successful,
this would lead to a steady Improvement in the competitiveness of the
economy. The current account deficit of the balance of payments, excluding
official transfers, is expected to increase to about 23 percent of GDP (a
level which is substantially lower than that of 1986-87) on account of higher
Imports to meet the resumption in public investment and the pick-up In
private activities after a sharp decline in 1988-90 (see para.23).
23.     Imports of goods and non-factor services are expected to increase at
an average annual rate of about 7.5 percent in 1991-93 owing mainly to the
resumption in public Investment under the new PIP and the pick-up in private
consumption following a long period of decline. Exports of goods and non-
factor services are expected to increase by 10.5 percent in 1991 owing
largely to the recovery of vanilla exports, but will slow down to 4.5 percent
in 1992 and 1993, given the fact that prospects for vanilla and cloves
exports are not encouraging. In contrast, exports of perfume essences have
potential for growth through improved quality and face an income-elastic



- 8 -
market. New export crops (e.g., pepper, tropical fruits, etc.) would need a
few years to reach the production stage.   In the medium-term, after the
start-up costs of lnfrastructural rehabilitation have been absorbed, and with
an Improvement in incentives and economic climate in general, import growth
should slow down to about 3.3 percent per year and export growth should
stabilize at around 6 percent, with a gradual improvement In the trade
balancd.  Export growth is expected to entail a certain degree of export
diversification, with expansion In agro-processing activities and tourism.
The recent reopening of two major hotels in 1991 and the resumption of air
connections with South Africa should Improve receipts from tourism in 1991
and beyond. Although export earnings would finance only about 40 percent of
imports in 1991-1993, the structure of Imports would shift In favor of
producer goods linked in part with the pick-up In private activities and in
part with public investment.
24.     The 1991-1993 Public Investment Program (PIP).  A rise in public
Investment from its current low level is necessary to stem the deterioration
of the country's infrastructure and allow for a reasonable increase in
capital stock to support the private sector. There are major differences
between the 1991-93 PIP and the investment projects of the early 1980s.
First, a rolling PIP preparation process has been established and, for the
first time, the Government has prepared a three-year PIP which has been
endorsed by the Bank. Potential "white elephants" have been eliminated, and
the remaining projects are consistent with the macroeconomic framework and
sectoral priorities -- especially the requirements of the social sectors.
Public  investments  in  the  directly  productive  activities  have  been
discouraged. A major criteria for inclusion of a project in the PIP is an
economic rate of return of at least 10 percent (for all projects for which
such rates of return can be calculated.)  Second, the financing terms of the
PIP are very concessionals more than two thirds of the program is being
financed by grants, and the rest is on highly concessional terms. Third, a
monitoring and control mechanism has been established to assure efficient and
proper use of the resources.
25.     The  1991-93  PIP aims to support the creation of an enabling
environment conducive to economic activities and growth, while providing
basic services in the social sectors. About 30 percent of the PIP is devoted
to the rural sector. Most expenditure in that area would go to research and
extension services, with a special focus on crop diversification
possibilitLes. About 26 percent of the PIP is allocated to social services,
mostly to education (12 percent) and health (9 percent); 25 percent to
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation; and 19 percent to utilities
and water supply. Because of the scarcity of domestic resources, the bulk of
the PIP will continue to depend on external financing. The normalization of
relations with creditors should permit resumption of full support by the
international community.  A breakdown of the PIP by sector is given in
Table 2.



- 9 -
abl-, 2s Publi Investment Proorfm, 1001-98
Sector                  Amount      U
(USt Million)
Rural Sector              4.2      as
Social Sectors           41.6      26
Education              tl9.1)   (12)
H"lth & Populat1on     R4.3)     (
Othor                   t8- 1)    tS)
Infrastructure & Tolecom.    89.5  26
Energy and Water Supply  80.3      19
TOTAL                168.5    lee
26.     Taking into account the necessity to eliminate all external payments
arrears, gross external financing requirements for the period 1991-93 are
projected at US$ 282 million.   Disbursements under expected grants and
existing loan commitments at the end of 1989 would provide US$ 180 million
(63 percent) of the overall financing requirements, with disbursements under
new project assistance providing an additional US$ 38 million (or 13
percent).  The Government plans to approach key donors in a Round Table
meeting, to be organized by the UNDP in summer 1991, to mobilize assistance
in financing the public investment projects included in the PIP. Taking into
account other net capital flows, the total financing gap is estimated at
about US$68 million over 1991-93. Part of this gap could be financed by
additional resources from IDA under MERCAP, from the IMF under the SAP, and
from the African Development Fund. Filling the residual gap of about US$ 41
million would require additional assistance, including debt relief and
financing under the Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA).  The
Government has approached its Arab creditors and has received positive
indications of debt relief and special assistance arrangements for balance of
payments support. Comoros' eligibility under SPA II was endorsed during the
April 1991 meeting of the SPA. At a special meeting on the Comoros, SPA
donors confirmed indications of balance of payments assistance that would
help close the financing gap. The European Community (EC) has pledged ECU 5
million in support of the Government's adjustment effort and France has
confirmed its intention to increase budgetary support from FF 50 million in
1990 to FF 70 million in 1991. Figure 1 shows the share of the policy-based
component of the proposed IDA operation in the financing gap (8.8 percent).



- 10 -
FIGURE 1: EXTERNAL FINANCING, 191-93
1. TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ($282 millbn)
Amotftlon              "pay*
(w0w8.Account%)C  (14X%)
11. SOURCES OF FINANCING ($282 milion)
Gap (24.2%)
IC (%   (.
UN Aor s _  
AIDF (3.4%)      (.9%)
Ill. GAP FINANCING POSSIBILITIES ($68.0 million)
-c ( )            (1%)
IM (622) 
AlOf (26.%                                          m
Fiawe (ig.2)



- 11 -
D. Bank Group Assistance Strateav
Strateav snd Priorities
27.     The Bank Group's assistance strategy in Comoros was discussed by the
Executive Directors in January 1991. The lank's objectives in the Comoros
are to improve macroeconomic management and to assist in the development of
options for long-term growth with equity. The Bank's country assistance aims
specifically at: (i) assisting the government with the design and
implementation of comprehensive policy reforms aimed at export growth and
diversification, and improvement of the fiscal situation and the management
of public financial resources; (ii) rationalizing the role of the state by
encouraging retrenchment from productive and commercial activities and
strengthening its role in social service delivery; (iII) encouraging private
sector development by improving the investment climate and infrastructure
supportive of private initiative; (iv) providing support for building
Institutional capacity of the key government agencies;  (v) assisting the
government in the formulation of an action program to develop the agriculture
sector and provide active support for its lmplementationt (vi) strengthening
human resources development by improving the quality of basic education and
health services, providing family planning services, and increasing the
availability of trained manpower; (vii) supporting the government's effort in
protecting the natural environment; and (viii) helping mobilize external
assistance, including non-project aid and debt relief.
28.     Past IDA lending.  Since joining the Bank Group in 1976, Comoros has
received nine IDA credits totalling USS 46 million, of which 39 percent went
to infrastructure rehabilitation, 36 percent to education and health, and 20
percent to rural sector.   IFC has not yet made any investments in the
Comoros.   Project implementation is generally satisfactory, although two
problems have been identified. First, experience has shown that substantial
institutional support is needed for project management (as under the First
Education and Road Rehabilitation projects).   Second, implementation of
projects has been frequently disrupted by a shortage of local funding, lack
of qualified counterpart staff, and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures
(particularly procurement).
29.     Past efforts on the part of the Bank and the IMF to encourage the
previous government to embark on the road to adjustment were not successful,
although conditions for agreement on a program had improved considerably,
when the assassination of the President in November 1989 forced a temporary
pause in the process. The dialogue on policy reforms accelerated in 1990
following the appointment of a new government. This led to the preparation
of the PFP and the proposed operation.



- 12 -
Tabl- St Distribution of IDA Lending, FY79-91 1/
(US$ miliUon)
Sector                  Amount    X   No. ot Projoets
Intfstructuru (Roads)   17.9    89        a
Rural S.ctor             9.2    20        2
Rural Services         (6.0)  (11)      (1)
Rodent Control         (4.2)   (9)      (1)
Human Reaourc..         16.5    as        8
Education             (i 87)  (B0       2
Health                 (2.9)   (6       I
Fln nctal Sector         2.8      6       I
TOTAL              45.9   1le         9
1J Excluding the proposed MERCAP-
30.     Current lendint prosram.   Given Comoros' small size and limited
absorptive capacity, the Bank's lending program consists of one operation
every other year on average. However, the Bank's strategy is to use these
operations as catalysts for mobilizing larger volumes of donor support
through cofinancing. The proposed macroeconomic reform and capacity building
credit (IMERCAP) is the center piece of the current lending program. Through
the policy-based component of the proposed operation, which would cover only
8.8 percent of the financing gap, the Bank has mobilized a financing package
that is more than ten times IDA's own contribution. In per capita terms, the
policy-based component of the proposed operation would provide about US$13 as
compared with the average of US$21 per capita for recent adjustment loans in
countries with a population lower than 5 million.
31.     In addition to the proposed MERCAP a Population and Human Resources
(PHR) operation is programmed for FY94, but would be advanced if preparation
is accelerated. Given the high demographic growth rate in Comoros and its
relatively low social indicators, this operation is clearly warranted. The
project would aim to improve social service delivery, with a view to
ameliorate the health status of the most vulnerable groups (i.e., women and
children), to bring about a reduction in fertility rates over the next
decade, and to improve the country's human capital. To this end, the project
will have the following objectivess (i) improve quality and efficiency of
primary health care delivery system; (ii) strengthen family planning services
and support population activities aimed at fostering demand for these
services; (iiI) improve in a sustainable manner the quality and efficiency of
primary and secondary education, and continue development of a framework for
training skilled workers and middle-level technicians; and (iv) establish an
appropriate policy and institutional framework. The promotion of the role of
women in development will be the focus of both the MERCAP (see para. 64) and
the PHR.  The MERCAP would also support actions to protect the environment
(see para. 65).
32.     The Bank's program of assistance to Comoros will be kept under review
over the next three years; it could be expanded in the light of actual
progress on the adjustment front and improvements in absorptive capacity.
Progress would be evaluated on the basis of the execution of the 1991 budget,



- 13 -
improved management of public resources, civil service reform, and
implementation of a satisfactory three-year PIP.
33.     As regards economic and sector work, priority will be given to the
preparation--with the participation of other donors--of an action program in
the agricultural sector, the completion of a health expenditure study, and
reviews of the public expenditure program.  Annual reviews of the public
expenditure program would constitute a major element of the economic and
sector work program with a view to improving the efficiency of public
resource allocation. The agriculture strategy study, now underway with UNDP
financing and the Bank as executing agency, would focus on diversification of
export crops, promotion of the domestic food-crop market and financial
intermediation, and environmental protection.
34.     Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF.    The Bank has been
working closely with the IMF, UNDP, AfDB, France, EC and other donors to
assist the government in its efforts to implement a comprehensive adjustment
program and to identify key areas of capacity building where donors' support
is needed.  Bank and Fund collaboration on Comoros has been particularly
close; efforts to help the Government prepare an adjustment program were
closely coordinated as regards both substance and timing.   In addition,
discussions with the authorities were often carried out jointly with IF
staff both in Comoros and at headquarters.   France is making a major
contribution to Comoros' development program by increasing its budgetary
assistance from US $9 million in 1990 to US $13 million in 1991, by assisting
in institution building through an increased technical assistance program,
and by playing an important role in supporting political stability and
improved governance. As noted in para. 26, donors have endorsed Comoros'
eligibility for SPA assistance. The UNDP has been actively assisting the
government in organizing a Round Table meeting.
PART II - THE PROPOSED MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACI  BUILDING CREDIT
35.     The proposed MERCAP is built on policies described in the PFP for
1991-93.  Its main objective is to lay the bases for sustained economic
growth by expanding the scope of private sector activity, while streamlining
the public sector and maintaining financial stability.  The Credit would
provide quick disbursing assistance in support of the Government's adjustment
program, and support a technical assistance program for capacity building.
The policy component of the credit would supportt (i) a reform of the civil
service; (ii) a reform of the parastatal sector; (iii) an improvement of the
composition of current and investment expenditures, including the protection
of essential social services; (iv) incentives for private investment; and (v)
a social and environmental plan.   It will complement and underpin the
financial stabilization program supported by the IMF SAF.  The capacity-
building component would complement the above reforms and focus on improving
macroeconomic management capacity by strengthening the Ministry of Finance,
Economy, Budget, and Planning.



- 14 -
36.     Because of Comoros' membership in the Franc zone, an adjustment of
the exchange rate as a policy instrument for improving economic
competitiveness is not envisaged.   In t:he absence of an exchange rate
adjustment, the Bank's strategy is to help the Government improve domestic
competitiveness, and develop as much as possible the incentives for private
investment and exports so that the country can begin to take advantage of its
growth potential. Measures such as the elimination or reduction of export
taxes, rationalization of import tariffs, a freeze in nominal wages, combined
with a prudent monetary policy to maintain a low inflation rate, will help
improve the country's competitiveness.
A. Policy-Based Component
1) Civil Service Reform
37.     Background.   The Comoros administration is characterized by an
oversized civil service, with the wage bill absorbing nearly 10 percent of
GDP. Given the severe deterioration of the public finances, civil servants
have not been paid regularly, and wages and promotions have been frozen for
the last several years. At the same time, unconr;rolled recruitment for years
has swelled the size of the civil service. These developments have led to
the deterioration of work incentives, demoralization of the more productive
civil servants, and growing inefficiency in the delivery of public services.
Streamlining and reform of the civil service are thus essential to provide
the Government with a smaller, better managed, and more motivated work force
that meets the real needs of the country.   In addition, a substantial
trimming of the wage bill is crucial for fiscal sustainability. The program
aims at restoring salary increases (within a more extended pay-scale) after
the civil service has been streamlined and reorganized, in order to promote
efficiency.
38.     MERCAP-Supported Reforms.  The reform process began in October 1990,
when the Government started a cross-checking of the list of civil servants
with the master payroll and completed a census of the civil service in
January 1991. Based on the preliminary census results, there are 8,148 civil
servants  (excluding military personnel)  in the  administration.    This
represents an equivalent of 18 civil servants per thousand population, one of
the highest in Africa.  In addition, the census revealed several cases of
irregularities, e.g., of persons who are "paid" but are absent, no longer
employed, retired, etc.
39.     During  the preparation of the proposed  operation,  Bank staff
discussed military expenditures in the context of the public expenditure
review and of the need for a realistic and transparent wage policy. This
dialogue helped in the Government's decision to merge the Presidential Guard
with the regular Comorian army. In the process, military personnel has been
reduced by nearly one-third to 1,060, and a sizeable decrease in the fringe
benefits of military personnel has been effected.
40.     The reform of the civil service will be implemented in three phases.
During the first phase, the following measures have already been undertaken
as up-front action.   The census results have been validated and on-site



- 15 -
verification of the civil servants has been achieved. Civil service files
have now been computerized and updated.   This will permit close monitoring
of the overall number of the government employees as well as the civil
service salary payments. In addition, irregularities revealed by the cross-
checking of the files and the census have been corrected and the
corresponding salaries struck from the payroll. The actions taken In this
phase have resulted in a reduction of 22 percent of the size of the civil
service (470 agents have been laid off, 383 agents have been retired, and 936
agents have been eliminated as a result of the irregularities identified).
The resulting savings are estimated at about CF 865 million or (US$ 3.1
million) and have permitted a reduction of 11.3 percent In the 1991 wage bill
from the 1990 level.
41.     In the second phase, to be completed by end-September 1991, an
organizational structure with the corresponding personnel needs will be
formulated. This should help to set a framework for the preparation of the
personnel budget and to determine appropriate staffing and training needs.
The Government will identify the number of agents to be reduced from each
ministry. An action plan will be prepared to encourage voluntary departures
and retirements and to initiate the redeployment of personnel. The financial
Impact on the wage bill of the reduction in the size of the civil service
during this second phase will be determined once the evaluation of the
personnel needs is completed. An accelerated on-the-job training program
will be put into place for reassigned personnel, and a compensation package
will be developed for voluntary departures and retirements.  An action plan
for civil service reform satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
42.     In the third phase, to be completed by end-1992, the action plan will
be implemented. Adequate progress in the implementation of the civil service
reform action plan In accordance with its timetable will be a condition of
second tranche release.
iI) Public Entergrise Reform
43.     Background.  The public enterprise sector is small and consists of 13
enterprises, mostly in public utilities, transport, services, and imports.
No public enterprise is involved in manufacturing and there are no direct
budget subsidies. The Post Office (OPT), the hotel company (COMOTEL), with
some private capital participation, and Air Comoros have been consistently In
deficit, while the rice (ONICOR) and petroleum (SCH) importing monopolies
generate aizeable profits. The meat importing enterprise (SOCOVIA) has been
in a precarious financial situation, and its monopoly of imports has had
negative effects on the local market. The two maritime companies (ECOPOR and
SONACOR) have been operating at cross-purposes and inefficiently.
44.     In general,  the public enterprise sector has suffered from an
inadequate administrative structure, deficient financial accounts, and lack
of managerial staff. A number of measures to improve the situation of this
sector have recently been undertaken, including audits of 11 enterprises in
1990, with assistance from UNDP and France.   Only two remaining small
enterprises (the printing office and newspaper) have not been audited. The
audits of the electricity company and the post office are not satisfactory



- 16 -
due to lack of sound financial data and need to be redone. The results of
the other nine audits have been used as the basis for the formulation of
policy measures to be taken within the framework of the PFP and in the
proposed operation.
45.     MERCAP-Su,ported Reforms. The Government's objective ts to disengage
altogether, albeit gradually, from all productive and conmercial activities.
During the program period, the Government wills (i) privatize SOCOVIA and
initiate privatization of the four state-owned hotels (COMOTEL); (it)
disengage SCH from other activities such as navigation and gas stations and
Air Comoros from tourism-related activities; (il) restructure the maritlme
companies and privatize the management of their commercial activities; (iv)
implement a uniform accounting system among the public and the private sector
enterprises, revise personnel policy, and formulate performance-contracts
with major enterprises remaining in the State portfolio; and (v) settle
government debts to and cross-debts between public enterprises within the
framework of an overall program to eliminate domestic payments arrears over
the program period.    Since petroleum products and ordinary rice are
strategically important and their regular supply (in the form of a few bulk
shipments during the year) is crucial, their imports are left with the state
import monopolies.
46.     During the first phase of the reform, to be completed by end-1991,
the Government has implemented or will undertake the following actions.
First, the meat import monopoly of SOCOVIA was abolished in January 1991 (see
para. 58). Second, a study has been launched to review taxation and pricing
of petroleum products and rice, so as to ensure stable budget revenues while
protecting the most vulnerable social groups and the environment, and
encouraging local production of foodstuffs. Petroleum products and rice are
Imported by the state import monopolies (ONICOR and SCH), which have
transferred most of their surpluses to the budget (their transfers accounted
for about 16 percent of total government revenue in 1990). However, these
transfers have been made irregularly, based on the availability of funds of
these two companies, thus making it difficult to forecast budget revenue. To
remedy this, and to make the reve ue transfer more transparent, the various
taxes and transfers will be replaced by a unified tax and the rate for each
product will be determined based on the results of the above study.  In
addition, the mechanism for establishing the retail prices of rice and
petroleum products, which are administered, will be revised to take into
account the fluctuations of their respective import prices.   Third, the
Government has decided to disengage from the hotel sector and will prepare a
privatization plan for the four hotels in the COMOTEL group. Fourth, the
Government will complete the study on the merger of the two maritime
companies with a view to limiting their activities to port management, and
review their concession contracts with private handling and navigation firms.
47.     Finally, the Government will undertake new audits for the two public
utility companies.   As for Air Comoros, the Government will eliminate
unprofitable air service to Dar-Es-Salam, and review inter-islands air fares
with a view to reducing them and to increasing the frequency of flights.
Moreover, Air Comoros will disengage itself from other tourism-related
activities such as car rental or bus services.  The Government will also



- 17 -
fonmulate a program to settle cross-arrears among public enterprises as well
as the government debts to these enterprises.
48.     During the second phase of the reform, to be completed by end-1992,
the Government wills (a) priva.ise or legally dissolve SOCOVIA; (b) complete
the assets valuation study of the four hotels in the COMOTEL group and
actively promote their sale; (c) privatise the gas stations owned by SCH; (d)
privatize the management of the state-owned boats serving inter-islands
routes, after the merger of the two maritime companies; (e) Implement the
recommendations of the audits of EEDC and OPT, and initiate the process of
formulating performance contracts for these two utilities; (f) formulate an
action plan to reduce personnel in the remaining enterprises; (g) apply the
uniform accounting system to all enterprises; and (h) implement the plan to
settle cross-arrears.   Implementation of the above-mentioned steps in the
privatization of SOCOVIA and of the four hotels in the COMOTEL group will be
conditions of second tranche release.
49.     At the end of the program, if privatization is successful, the
residual parastatal sector would comprise mainly the public utilities,
import monopolies for petroleum products and ordinary rice, and management of
the airport, maritime port, and of the plane owned by Air Comoros.
tii) Prograsmina and Monitoring of Public Exoenditure
50.     Background. Public finances have come under pressure in recent years
because of the weak revenue base, inefficient tax collection, and steady
increases in current expenditures.   The Government has taken steps to
increase budgetary revenues, by improving tax administration. In order to
reduce smuggling and tax evasion, customs services have been strengthened and
controls reinforced.   As a result, import duties and taxes rose by an
estimated 28 percenu in 1990. Similar measures are planned in the internal
revenue services.   In addition, a significant effort has been made to
increase nontax revenue, with the regular transfer to the budget of the
profits of the petroleum and rice Importing state enterprises.
51.     As for expenditures, while the Government has maintained a freeze on
civil service wages and salaries as well as on internal promotions, the
control of budget expenditures remains weak, with no effective control to
prevent outlays from exceeding appropriations. The budget is prepared in an
arbitrary manner by the Ministry of Finance with practically no participation
from other government agencies.   There is no overall formulation of
priorities nor a consistent allocation of resources. The budget formulation
is merely Incremental and does not allow for reallocations in favor of
priority sectors. Moreover, there has been no Public Investment Program
(PIP) prepared in the past, no defined criteria for project selection and no
follow-up on project execution; the staff in the Planning Directorate has
been reduced to a bare minimum.
52.     MERCAP-Su norted Reforms. The objective is to establish control over
the expenditure process, re-start public investment from the low levels of
recent years, and improve the efficiency of current and development
expenditure while protecting basic social services and maintaining existing
infrastructure. The reform program aims at revising the budget preparation



- 18 -
and monitoring process, and Introducing a reallocation process based on the
formulation of public expenditure programs and the formulation and execution
of triennial public investment programs. The technical assistance component
of the credit will contribute to improving the institutional capacity needed
to implement those reforms.
53.     Budaet Preparation and Monitoring.   The Government will adopt new
procedures for budget preparation in 1991, Including a revised budget
circular, a revised budget calendar, and budget conferences with the line
ministries. The size and composition of public expenditure will be reviewed
every year in collaboration with the Bank, to ensure that resource allocation
correctly reflects the country's strategy and priorities. The 1991 budget
has been revised to incorporate a reallocation in favor of priority sectors
especially provision of a 'safety net" of social expenditures and economic
management support services, based on the recommendations of the Bank's
public expenditure review carried out in December 1990 and on the results of
the civil service census. Adoption of a 1992 budget (including continued
provision of a "safety net" of basic social services) acceptable to the
Association will be a condition of second tranche release. The Government
will reinforce expenditure control, expenditure accounting, and government
accounting within the Treasury. Starting in 1991, quarterly budget execution
reports will be prepared by the staff of the budget directorate. In order to
Improve public debt monitoring, all loan agreements and guarantees will need
to be approved by the Minister of 7inance.   Bidding and procurement
regulations will be reviewed and new procedures established to allow the
expenditure controller to check contract approvals and contract execution.
Over the 1991-93 period, the Government will undertake a budgetary reform
aimed at improving the budget nomenclature, the implementation procedure, and
government accounting. A work program will be prepared and agreed with the
Bank by end-September 1991.
54.     Sectoral  Public Expenditure  Programs.       In order to  improve
expenditure programming, sectoral public expenditure programs (PEPs) will be
prepared for priority sectors.   A program approach will be used to put
together Investment and current expenditures necessary to reach the program
objectives, with an adequate provision for recurrent expenditures. These PEPs
will be consistent with the budget and the PIP. PEPs for the health and
education sectors will be prepared for 1992 and reflected In the 1992 budget.
Starting with the 1993 budget, the procedure will be extended to other
sectors.
55.     The Public Investment Program.  Investment programming has been weak
in the past, leading to poor quality projects, no coordination between the
budget and externally-financed projects, and an unsustainable debt service.
The accumulation of external arrears resulted In donors suspending
disbursements for on-going projects and a steep decline in new commitments.
Economic recovery In Comoros depends to a large extent on an appropriate
investment program based on sound projects financed at concessional terms.
A first three-year public investment program has been prepared for 1991-93 In
agreement with Bank staff (see paras. 24-25 on PIP composition).   Tho
Government is comm4tted to a yearly repetition of the exercise, which will
involve improving the methodology and strengthening the services in charge of
its formulation. Project selection will comply with criteria for economic



- 19 -
soundness (e.g., minimum economic rate of return of 10 percents see para.
24), financing availability, degree of preparation, relation to sectoral
strategies and priorities, adequate counterpart funding, and sustainable
recurrent charges.   The annual investment budget will be a consolidated
budget reflecting exactly the yearly tranche of the PIP for government
expenditures (both own resources and external financing). Starting with the
1992 budget, the PIP will be presented to the parliament together with the
budget. Procedures for PIP monitoring will be established in order to foster
timely implementation and to provide the basis for the annual revision and
updating of the PIP. Adoption of a 1992-94 PIP acceptable to the Association
will be a condition of second tranche release.
iv)  Measures  to  Improve  gompetItv_eness  and  Private  Sector
Incentives
56.     Backyround.   Comoros' competitiveness has been eroded with the
appreciation of the Comorian Franc vis-a-vis the US dollar. The appreciation
of the real effective exchange rate since 1985 is about 25 percent (10
percent compared to  1980).   In order to regain competitiveness,  the
Government's policy has been to keep inflation below the level of trading
partners. In addition, it is adopting a number of alternative policies to
cope directly with the competitiveness problem. Official Government controls
on internal trade and prices are minimal. However, because of the history of
the country and its small size, severe de facto distortions have existed and
rent-seeking activities have been dominant, particularly in the vanilla
export trade, which was controlled by four main exporters, and in the Import
trade. Concerning the regulatory fraumwork, approval procedures to set up an
enterprise in Comoros are complicated and lengthy. Although the Investment
Code theoretically provides a three-month period for approval, it normally
takes several months and even years to obtain the authorization to establish
a new firm. A variety of other obsoleto or cumbersome regulations exists in
the labor code. Also, actual practices, as opposed to official regulations,
need to be examined.
57.    MERCAP-Suvported Reforms.  To gradually Improve the competitiveness
of the *conomy, and following recommendations provided during extended
dialogue with Bank staff, the Government has recentl> taken steps to improve
incentives to exports and to bring the cost of imports closer to their
scarcity value. In 1990, export taxes were cut by 50 percent for vanilla
(from 20 percent to 10 percent) and those on cloves and copra were eliminated
altogether. In addition, export levies by the Stabilization Fund have been
abolished. On the import side, a thorough tariff reform is being undertaken
with assistance from the IMF. The details of the tariff reform have been
worked out in consultation with the Bank, and its implementation will be
sup.-orted by and monitored under the SAF. The reform Includes in the first
phase a modification of customs tariff rates under the investment code, the
elimination of the consumption surcharge, and the revision of customs duties
and the consumption tax.  In the second phase, to be completed over the
program period, the reform will cover the simplification and rationalization
of the customs tariff structure. The objective is tos (i) reduce the number
of rates from 42 to 4; and (ii) reduce the maximum taxation from 300 percent
to around 75 percent with a minimum tariff of 5 percent. The tariff reform
will result in a reduction of effectivn tariff protection.   Improved



- 20 -
collection will be an Important component of the tariff reform.            In
addition, the Government intends to examine how it can help to reduce
production costs directly through improved management and pricing policies.
Accordingly, the petroleum importing company (SCH) will be requested to
examine the possibility of lowering the price of diesel sold to the
electricity company (EEDC) after taxes on the product are reduced by the
Government. EEDC will, in turn, seek to reduce its production costs through
improved management.   Finally, the Government will adopt a liberal wage
policy to maintain the wage levels competitive with those prevailing in
neighboring countries (at present the actual minimum wage in Comoros is about
twice the level in Madagascar, but about half the level in Mauritius).
58.     To  encouraxe  competition,  the  Government  introduced  In  1990
legislation to liberalize exports of vanilla, which were controlled by four
main exporters. With the lowering of the minimum entry limit from 15 to 5
tons, three new exporters have already entered the vanilla trade, and
competition can expand further in the future. In addition, the Government
will adopt a flexible producer price policy in order to retain
competitiveness while assuring adequate remuneration to producers, processors
and exporters. This issue has been fully addressed in the PFP for 1991-93
under the agriculture sector policies. Cement imports have been liberalized
with the aim of bringing down the retail price of cement; in addition to
improving the competitive climate, this measure will have the important
result of discouraging the use of coral for the production of lime, a
practice which has contributed to the destruction of the marine environment.
Imports of cigarette have also been liberalized with the abolition of the
cigarettes importing monopoly in 1990. Finally, the proposed credit supports
the liberalization of imports of meat and of higher-grade rice. Decrees to
abolish the state enterprise monopoly of imports of these two products were
issued, respectively, in January and April 1991 as up-front action.
Privatization of the meat-importing enterprise will be a condition of second
tranche  release  (see  para.  48).    Also,  an  independent  board  (with
participation from the private sector) will be established In order to
monitor competitive practices in imports and serve as an informal recourse
body.
59.    To  create  a  more  favorable  retulatory  environment  for  the
establishment of private businesses, administrative procedures will be
streamlined. First, the requirement for approval from the Minister in charge
of economic affairs for the establishment of a private enterprise has been
eliminated in April 1991. The Government will take steps to create a one-
stop window mechanism for the creation of private enterprises in order to
minimize delays.  Second, the Labor Code contains cumbersome regulations
restricting employment and dismissals.  This code needs to be reviewed.
Licenses to Import or to export are subject to administrative decisions, and
retail prices of a number of imported goods are still subject to Government
control. A study will be carried out to catalog and examine administrative
controls not yet dealt with in the credit, and to prepare an action plan to
reduce them (consistent with the protection of the environment, public
health, safety, and other valid social purposes). The terms of reference of
the study have been agreed upon. The completion of a satisfactory action
plan for the streamlining of the regulatory framework will be a condition of
second tranche release.



- 21 -
60.    To promote foreign and domestic investment in the country, the
Government will revise its Investment Code. The new code will be as simple,
general and automatic as possible, and will avoid introducing distortions in
the allocation of  resources.   The administrative formalities  for the
beneficiaries will be kept minimal and the delays curtailed.   A minimum
Import tax of 5 percent will be introduced on capital goods and the exemption
of raw materials as in the present code will be repealed. The program will
support the establishment of private export-promotion organisations and
professional groups. The Chamber of Commerce will become a fully private
organization with its president and secretary general elected by the private
sector. The Chamber of Commerce will provide technical support and training
to existing and newly-created small enterprises in the industrial sector.
Regarding the agricultural sector, the agricultural strategy study being
completed with UNDP financing is expected to provide the framework for
reorientation of the sector toward export-oriented activities, and for the
revision of Government activities in the sector.
v) Social and Environmental Aspects
61.     Social problems in the Comoros have been aggravated in recent years
by the decline in per capita consumption.  The Government's adjustment
program, supported by external resources, should permit a slight rise In per
capita private consumption in 1991-93.   As detailed in the PFP, the
Government Is striving to slow down the rate of population growth and to
reduce mortality, particularly of the most vulnerable groups (i.e., women and
children). In education, the Government objectivs is to Improve the links
between education and employment needs.  In these and other social areas
concrete improvements will depend on well-designed projects to that end. A
Population and Human Resources project to be supported by IDA is in the
initial stage of preparation.    These  Improvements  should be greatly
facilitated, however, by the reforms supported by the proposed MERCAP, which
should help arrest the decline in per capita consumption and, in the longer
term, lay the basis for gradual but sustained growth in per capita income.
In particular, the various measures to improve public expenditure programming
and control will have a direct positive Impact on social conditions. As
noted earlier, the Government's public expenditure program is designed in
part to protect real expenditures on basic social services through a 'safety
net" of social expenditure--primary health care and basic education--while
Improving their effectiveness.   As a result, the quality of basic services
is expected to improve.
62.     Other measures  In the MERCAP program are intended to provide
transitional support for those directly affected by the necessary adjustment
measures, and to help the most vulnerable groups. Reducing the number of
civil servants is a particularly difficult measure in a country where the
Government  is the  largest employer.   As each civil servant supports
approximately 12 persons, the anticipated layoffs will affect a large segment
of the urban population. To help mitigate the Impact of this measure, the
Government, assisted by a number of donors, is developing ways (e.g.,
compensation packages) to provide tranaitional compensation to those
affected. Under the recently approved IDA financed Road Maintenance Project,
the Government will encourage labor intensive activities in project
execution.



- 22 -
63.     To help the poorest groups, the Government has lowered the retail
price of ordinary rice (consumed by them) and of kerosene, by reducing the
profit margin of the state enterprises (ONICOR and SCH). Over the medium
term, the lncrease in incomes resulting from the adequate producer price of
vanilla (recently increased by 40 percent) at'd from the ensuing expansion of
exports should also improve the living conditions of the poorer groups.
64.     With respect to curtailing population growth and to Promote the role
of women in development, the Government has adopted a two-pronged approach:
(i) strengthening the national family planning program, by fostering
continued support of political and religious authorities, and by expanding
access to quality services; and (II) encouraging Comorian women to
participate in economic activities to increase their income-generating
capability.    Within  this  context,  the  Government  will  promote  the
establishment of educational programs for women, and the extension of time
saving technologies such as improved ovens or kerosene burning stoves. In
addition to the Bank (under the proposed Population and Human Resources
project), UNFPA and UNICEF are active in support of these activities.
65.     Several actions have been taken, with assistance from donors and non-
government organizations, to protect the envirorment. These include pilot
projects for the development of terraces to prevent soil erosion,
reforestation projects included in the new public investment program, and
support to private enterprises to crush pozzolana (lava rock) as a substitute
for  sea  sand  in  construction.    As  noted  earlier  (pare.  58),  the
liberalization of cement imports will also reduce the incentive to crush
coral to produce lime. Both of these measures will protect the coastal areas
from further environmental degradation.
B. The Capacity Building Component
i) Background and Justification for IDA Involvement
66.     In general, administrative capacity is very weak in Comoros, due to
the lack of qualified personnel and inadequate organizational structure.
Without   strengthening   the   Government's   administrative   capacity,
implementation of the adjustment measures discussed earlier would be
difficult. Therefore, a parallel capacity building effort is crucial to the
success of the country's reform program. Capacity building will focus, In
this first phase, on strengthening the institutional capability of the
Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget and Planning, since this Ministry has
the primary responsibility to execute the reform program.   Technical
assistance has already been extended by France, UNDP, and IMF to this
Ministry in customs and tax administration, treasury accounts preparation,
and statistical data collection. The Bank has provided short-term technical
assistance in public finance.   The propcsed credit provides longer-term
support in macroeconomic management to facilitate the implementation of the
Government's reform program.



- 23 -
11) FocuA and Objectives
67.     The capacity building component of the proposed operation vill focus
on improvings (i) the Government's ability to define and Implement economic
policy; (it) the budget's consistency with macroeconomic and social
objectives, as well as with sectoral strategies; (iii) the efficiency of PIP
preparation through the use of clear project selection guidelines, sound
programming procedure, and better coordination with technical ministries and
donors; (iv) the Government's ability to monitor and control public
expenditure; (v) the monitoring of public enterprises; and (vi) financial
programming, as well as treasury and debt management.
To this end, the Government will need to:
-    develop a capacity for macroeconomic analysis and economic
decision-making, and strengthen the economic and statistical
services in the Ministry of Finance;
-    Improve the budget preparation and execution process, redefine
the auditing functions, and provide for periodic statements on
budget execution;
-    restructure the Treasury and transfer its depositor accounts to
the commercial bank; improve government accounting and
accountability;
-    strengthen the service in charge of preparing and monitoring the
PIP; PIP execution by semester will be monitored through reports
prepared by the planning directorate;
-    reinforce the debt management unit to monitor new commitments,
follow up on timely debt service payments, and forecast external
debt obligations; and
-    strengthen the monitoring of public enterprises through the
application of the uniform accounting plan, the centralization
of accounts, and the formlation and monitoring of performance-
contracts.
1ii) MSRfAP-Suggorted Activitles
68.     The  capacity building component of the proposed operation is
described in detail, Including project administration, cost and financing,
procurement, disbursement mad audit, in the technical annex (Annex IV). This
component will be co-financed by UNDP under a technical assistance project
centering on macroeconomic management, public enterprise reform and civil
service reform. The Bank is to be associated agency for the macroeconomic
anagement component and will as such ensure close coordination between the
two projects. To support the Government's effort in achieving the above
objectives, the proposed capacity building component vould finance, over a
three year period, mostly short-term experts to provide technical support and
training of people on-the-job.   Regarding macroeconomic manatement, the
credit would focus on departments responsible for macroeconomic analysis,



- 24 -
macroeconomic forecasting, and for the fonrulation of economic policy.
Bringing about the desired changes would imply a reorganization of the
planning directorate and the creation of a new unit which would be in charge
of economic analysis and forecasting, elaborating sectoral strategies, and
preparing economic policy measures. The departments In charge of statistics,
economic indicators and national accounts will also need to be reinforced.
In order to facilitate the implementation of the program, the credit will
also finance studies on taxation and pricing of petroleum products, household
consumption survey and the regulatory framework.
69.     As regards budget preparation, an appropriate training program and
seminars will provide the Ministry of Finance with the capacity to
incorporate the macroeconomic objectives and sectoral priorities in its
budget proposals. The Ministry would be able to provide guidance to the
other ministries in the preparation of their budget. As regards budget
execution and expenditure control, the credit would provide support for
establishing a computerized system of quarterly reporting and follow-up on
budget execution. Also, a restructuring of the Treasury is necessary to
improve the control and monitoring of expenditures, as well as the accounting
system used in the budgetary process. This reform, however, should take
place gradually, to ensure proper internalization and to minimise disruption
in the budgetary process. For this longer-term component, an action plan
will be established, and a timetable for its Implementation over the 1992-93
period will be prepared by September 1991.
70.     As regards the public investment nroaram, MERCAP would support the
Government's effort to coordinate the PIP preparation with that of the
budget. The preparation of the PIP itself needs major improvement. The
credit would finance the material and technical assistance needed to improve
this important instrument which would serve as a vehicle for managing,
controlling, and monitoring development expenditure, as well us for
mobilizing the donors' support for high-priority projects.   Evaluation
procedures and selection criteria for new projects will be defined and
improvements will be made in the newly established project briefs. To this
end, the unit In charge of the PIP preparation and execution will be
strengthened, through appropriate staffing, to act as a focal point for
elaboration of the PIP, coordination between various ministries on the
sectoral projects, and efficient follow-up of the program and its
implementation.
71.     Preparation and monitoring of the PIP Is closely linked to the issue
of debt manaftement. At present, a unit in the Ministry of Finance--attached
to the Minister's Cabinet--is in charge of the management of public debt.
Although this unit is working in a relatively satisfactory way, it needs more
efficient office equipment (mainly computers). A system should be designed
to guarantee the coherence of the information, as well as easy access to that
information for analytical and decision-making purposes. To reinforce the
Ministry's capacity, the credit would finance the necessary equipment and an
expert to develop a computerized system for monitoring the new commitments,
disbursements, debt service payments, and provide necessary inputs for the
PIP preparation and the follow-up on its execution.



- 25 -
72.     At present an effective economic and fina:'. `   w, me<ianism to monitor
the reform of public enterprises is lacking. rTi Xredit would provide the
necessary technical support (on-the-job training and short-term consulants)
for: (i) Implementation of a uniform accounting and auditing system; (ii)
development of a system to centralize and consolidate the public enterprise
accounts; (iii) preparation of reports for the Minister of Finance regarding
the reform of public enterprises as discussed in the policy component of the
operation; (iv) preparation and monitoring of performance-contracts; and (v)
coordination in PIP preparation and monitoring.
PART III - SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History
73.     The proposed credit would be the first policy-based operation for
Comoros. A draft PFP was first prepared in 1989 by the staff of the Bank and
IMF and subsequently discussed with the authorities. A mission to finalize
the PFP was canceled due. to the assassination of the former President of the
Comoros in November 1989. Following this event, Comoros has undergone major
political changes and a new coalition government was formed. The coalition
government is determined to implement comprehensive reforms, and has
requested Bank and IMF assistance to help it design an adjustment program to
restore financial equilibria and improve conditions for growth. The draft
PFP was updated for 1991-93 and is scheduled to be discussed by the Executive
Directors together with the proposed MERCAP Credit. The proposed credit was
appraised in March 1991 and negotiations were held in Washington in April
1991.
B. Financing and Management
74.     Credit Amount. Borrower and Cofinancina.   It is proposed that the
Government's adjustment program be supported by an IDA credit on standard
terms for the equivalent of US$ 8 million. The proposed credit would include
a quick disbursing component of US$ 6 million and a capacity building
component of US$ 2 million. It would cover about 2.8 percent of Comoros'
total external financing requirements for 1991-93 and the quick disbursing
component would cover about 8.8 percent of the financing gap. In meeting the
Comoros' financing requirements, the proposed operation would be complemented
by the IMF-supported SAF (about US$ 4 million equivalent) and other quick-
disbursing assistance. The African Development Fund is expected to cofinance
the operation for the equivalent of US$ 17 million. The European Community
(EDP) expects to provide a minimum of US$ 7 million in support from its
structural adjustment facility as part of the Lome IV convention. Other
multilateral institutions -- e.g. the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) and the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) -- have indicated
their intention to provide non-project support. France has indicated its
intention to increase its current level of annual budgetary support (about $9
million equivalent) by at least US$ 4 million equivalent.   Finally, the
Government has approached Arab donors to resolve the problem of external
arrears and has received indications of substantial support in that area.
Table 4 shows the gap financing possibilities.



- 26 -
Table 4A  ap Financing
(USI    Ion)
Donor         1991-98       1001
AtOF           17.0         10.0
Sautfi Arabia    12.C       12.6
OPEC           4.0           2.5
ISD8           8.0           1.0
Kuwait         2.0           2.0
Abu Dhabi      0.5           0.5
EC             7.0           2.0
France*       11.0           8.?
IMf            4.0           1.0
IDA            6.0           8.0
Total         7.0         18.5
Initial gap   60.0        38.0
Re.idual gap   1.0         0.5
Additional to current level of budgetary support
75.     Disbursement, retroactive financint and procurement.  The quick-
disbursing component of the proposed credit would be released in two equal
tranches of US$ 3 million.  The first tranche is expected to be released
within three months following Board approval, assuming compliance with
conditions of effectiveness. The second tranche is expected to be released
within one year after effectiveness, assuming compliance with second tranche
conditions. To permit the country to sustain the projected level of Imports
during the initial phase of the reform program, up to US$ 1.2 million (i.e.,
20 percent of the quick-disbursing component) would be made available to
finance retroactively eligible Imports procured no earlier than four months
prior to the credit signing date, envisaged before end-June 1991.  The
capacity building component would be disbursed over three years.
76.     Imports exceeding US$ 400,000 equivalent both by the public and
private sectors would be procured under simplified international competitive
bidding. The sample documents for ICB will be reviewed and cleared by IDA.
For imports below US$ 400,000, public agencies will follow the public
procurement procedures and private importers will follow established
commercial practices and would seek three quotations from two eligible source
countries.   These practices have been reviewed and found acceptable.
Whenever compatibility of existing equipments or standardization is
justified, direct contracting would be resorted to. Financing of Imports of
petroleum products and foodstuffs would not exceed 20 percent each of the
quick-disbursing component of the proposed credit and these will be procured
using competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Expenditures
for invoices of US$ 2,000 or less would be ineligible for financing. While
it would be advantageous to have independent preshipment inspection of
Imports, in the case of Comoros -- a small country with small value of
procurement phased over time -- preshipment inspection may not result in
accrual of major benefits given the retroactive financing (US$1.2 million),
the use of ICB procedures for petroleum products and rice and the low ICB
limit for the balance of imports.



- 27 -
77.     The quick-disbursing component of the proposed credit would finance
100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of eligible imports, excluding a standard
list of luxury consumer goods, goods intended for military or para-military
purpose, alcohol, tobacco and jewelry. Disbursements under the capacity-
building component of the proposed credit are detailed in annex 4 para. 20.
Procurement arrangements under the capacity-building component are detailed
in annex 4 para. 19. The Government will establish two Special Accounts at
a commercial bank to facilitate disbursements. Special account A with an
authorized allocation of US$ 1 million will be used for general Imports and
Special Account B for the capacity building component. Special Account A
would  be  replenished  regularly,  subject  to  a  mintmum  replenishment
application of US$ 500,000, up to the limit of the amount of each of the two
tranches on the basis of (a) fully documented reimbursement applications
detailing procurement procedures followed for contracts exceeding US$
200,000; and (b) statements of expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures up to US$
200,000.   Disbursement, replenishment and procurement related to Special
Account B are detailed in Annex IV. These accounts will be audited each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the audit report will
be provided to the Association no later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year. All documents and supporting expenses incurred by using
SOEs will be kept and made available to IDA supervision missions for review.
78.     Management and Monitorin- of the Program.    The Government has
established a ministerial commission (chaired by the Minister of Production,
Industry, Rural Development and Environment) to oversee the preparation and
implementation of the adjustment program. The commission is assisted by a
permanent technical committee, composed of qualified staff from key
ministries, to monitor detailed program implementation. The committee has
functioned well during the preparation phase of the program and will be
responsible for program implementation. The IMF will monitor the financial
and monetary targets of the program. Moreover, the IMF has accepted the
Government's request to appoint a Resident Representative, who is expected to
have an important advisory role.  Frequent contacts with the authorities
through the IMF resident representative and supervision missions will
facilitate  continuous monitoring of program  implementation.    Existing
weaknesses in specific agencies involved in the adjustment process will be
alleviated through technical assistance and logistic support provided under
the capacity building component, and the technical assistance programs of
UNDP and France..
C. Monitorable Actions
79.     The policy measures to be taken under the proposed credit are
detailed In the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex V) and
summarized in the policy matrix (Annex VI).



- 28 -
80.     Under the proposed program, the following actions have already been
taken by the Governments
(a)   appointment of an expenditure controller;
(b)   liberalization of cement, cigarettes, meat and higher-grade rice
imports;
(c)   liberalization of vanilla exports, reduction of export taxes on
vanilla by more than 50 percent and Increase of the producer
price by 40 percent;
(d)   reduction of the retail price of keroseno by 35 percent;
(e)   completion of the civil service census;
(f)   validation of the census and identification of irregular
payments in the civil service payroll;
(g)   correction of the civil service payroll, and corresponding
reduction of the wage bill;
(h)   adoption of the 1991 budget and the 1991-93 PIP acceptable to the
Association;
si)   suppression of the requirement of authorization from the Minister
in charge of Economic Affairs to establish private enterprises;
(j)   decision by the Government to privatize the four hotels of the
COMOTEL hotel group; and
(k)   agreement on the terms of reference of a study on regulatory
obstacles to private sector activity.
81.     Credit effectiveness and first tranche release will be conditional ons
(a)   approval of the AfDF credit by the Executive Directors of the
African Development Bank, which is a critical element in the
overall financing of the adjustment program; and
(b)   an action plan for civil service reform acceptable to IDA.



- 29 -
82.     The release of the second tranche will be conditional on satisfactory
overall progress in program implementation, and on the Implementation of the
following specific actions in a manner satisfactory to the Association*
(a)   privatization of the meat-importing company (SOCOVIA), or its
legal dissolution;
(b)   completion of an evaluation to determine the value of the four
hotels owned by COMOTEL and realistic offer to sell them;
(c)   enactment of the 1992 budget and the 1992-94 PIP; 1l
(d)   adequate progress in the implementation of the civil service
reform action plan in accordance with its timetable;
(e)   preparation of an action plan, including a timetable for its
implementation, to reduce regulatory obstacles to private sector
activities.
D. Benefits and risks
83.    As noted, the proposed credit, complemented by a SAF program, is
expected to restore economic stability, to improve the officiency of resource
allocation  and utilization,  and to build capacity.    It is expected,
furthermore,  to improve incentives for private sector development.   In
addition, the credit would help mobilize external support to the Government's
efforts at remedying the economic situation and building a national
consensus; it would facilitate governance improvements In the country, and
enhance development prospects.
84.     There are political, technical and financial risks.  First, in spite
of its commitment to reform, the new coalition government is still fragile,
and might be forced to backtrack on the tough measures affecting the civil
service if it faces a serious loss of popular support. Also, in view of the
history of Comoros, there is room for concern about the country's future
political stability.   These political risks are minimized by the front-
loading of several important measures, and by France's lead role in
supporting political stability and improved governance. At the technical
level, the implementation of the reform program could be hampered by weak
administrative capacity.   This  risk is addressed by the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the key
ministry, and by the appointment of an IMN Resident Representative. On the
financing side, the major risk is that quick-disbursing assistance from the
African Development Fund will not materialize if Comoros is not able to
1/    If the other conditions of second tranche are not satisfactorily
implemented by end-December 1992, release of the second tranche would
require agreement on the 1993-95 PIP and the 1993 budget as well.



- 30 -
settle its payment arrears to the AfDB, estimated at about US$ 10 million at
end-1990.    In this connection, the Comorian authorities have identified,
with assistance from France, a satisfactory bridge financing arrangement.
Moreover, the effectiveness of the proposed credit is conditional on the
approval of the AfDF loan by AfDF's Executive Directors.
PART IV - REC      ATION
85.     I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 24, 1991



-31 -                                          Annex I
Page I
aos  Key  craea.lc Irdlutor
(pert. Irp *We  dlodted
10      198     19 8     888    190    1991    1OU2    1#1        1994    195
Prel In.      -       ProJectio      -
Gross omestic Prodcat groth rate              2.2     2.5     1.0     0.4    15       2.7     3.2     3.5      3.7    3.9
Gross omestic Income grfth rate               2.8    -1.5      ..      ..      1.5     1.6     3.6     3.3      3.8    3.7
631 per caoita growh rate                    -0.5   -4.8       ..             -1.7    -1.7     0.3     0.0      0.2    0.4
Pr ,ate Consutlon p.c. gr. rate             -2.5      8.2   -1.9    -5.8    -1.0       1.8     2.5      0.7     0.7    0.9
Debt Service (USS mIIIion) 1/                 5.9     7.9     9.5     8.3      9.1    10.2    12.0    12.3    12.4   13.1
Dbt Service Ratio  1/                        21.8    30.5    24.4    23.2    25.7    28.8    28.7    27.8    25.9    24.9
Debt Service as % of 60P                      3.8     4.0     4.8     4.1      3.7     3.9     4.2     4.0      3.8    3.7
Gross Investw*AW  2/                         20.8    18.5    12.5    11.4    10.8    15.7    17.4    18.0    18.0    18.0
Oanestic SavirsW                             -3.4    -7.2    -7.3    -4.8    -5.5    -.9    -6.3    -8.3   -5.9    -5.5
Natloral Savini/GDP                          -5.7   -7.3    -8.9    -2.8    -4.4    -6.0    -5.3    -5.0   -4.4   -3.9
Pubil Instnmt         3/                     15.8    11.7     7.9     8.9      8.2    11.0    12.6    12:4    12.2   12.1
Private lnvestment/00P                   .   5.0      4.8     4.6     4.5      4.8     4.7     4.8     5.6      5.8     5.9
Ptblic/Private Investment Ratio               3.2     2.4     1.7     1.5      1.3     2.3     2.6     2.2      2.1     2.0
Govserrent Revenua/GQP 4/                    14.8    12.0    14.9    14.1    17.4    17.4    17.6    17.5    17.7   17.8
Govermient ExpBnditure/00P                   47.8    38.9    38.1    38.4    35.2    34.6    38.4    34.4    34.1    34.0
a/w Wages and Salariesi00P                  9.2     9.0     9.9     9.7    10.2      8.4     7.8      7.6     7.6     7.5
Other 8.dgetary Current EXpend./GOP     9.8     7.9     9.4      9.4     9.t     8.4     8.3      8.0     7.7     7.7
Other ExPenditure.#WP                  28.8    20.1    18.9    19.3    15.9    17.8    22.4    18.8    18.8    18.8
Dsficit(-) or suplus (W) /BP  5/            -33.0   -24.9   -23.2   -24.3   -17.8   -17.3   -20.8   -16.9   -18.4   -18.2
Cons'mr Price Index (1985.100)              108.3   111.9   112.2   117.4   122.1   127.0   132.1   137.3   142.8   148.5
Mimi average changes (1)                    8.3     3.3     0.3     4.5      4.0     4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0
Exort (G8NFS) Growth Rate (real)             5.1    -9.8    54.7   -11.1   -19.3    10.5       4.5     4.5      4.8     5.7
ExForts (GUFS)/,P                           16.7    13.1    18.7    17.8    14.4    14.5    14.8    14.6    14.8   14.8
leport (GSNFS) Growth Rate (real)           -2.5      1.1     9.8   -17.2    -3.7      7.7     9.0     5.9     3.1     3.5
Imports (GSNFS)/GDP                         43.7    43.6    41.2    36.6    35.3    37.3    38.5    39.0    38.8   38.5
Current Account Salavoe (USS mln.)  S/      -47.3  -80.1    45.5   -3.4  -48.7   -57.8   -4.2   -70.1   -74.1  -78.4
Ourrent Account Balance/GP 8/               -29.1   -30.3   -22.0  -16.7   -19.7   -21.9   -22.7   -23.0   -22.8  -22.1
I/ Schedled Interest and amortization (excluding the rqpamts of arrears) as percent of exports of goods and nor-factor services.
V Exclude dans In stocs.
3/ Including puliic entrplses.
4/ Excluding grants.
5J On paYment order basis; ex1uding grants.
8/ Excluding official transfers and caPital grants.



- 32 -                                             Annex I
Page 2
CS: EXTENAL FIKNAIN  REIIIRBENTS
(In m ill ns of ellams)
Im 8        1987 18    1988    1990    1991   192    1893    1984    la
-' DCtI -                     Prel.        -         Projection
Oirrent aeoiznt (def left)                   47.3    60.1    45.5    93.4    48.7    57.8    64.2    70.1    74.1    78.4
(eoludirg official trafers)
AmortIzatIon                                  8.2     9.3     5.5     5.3      5.6     6.5     7.9      7.9     7.9    8.3
Feduetion In external arrears (-)            2.4      6.8     8.5     7.2      8.7   -31.5    -8.8      0.0     0.0     0.0
Inereass In ross reservas                    8.5     8.8    -3.7      5.3    -4.2      5.6    12.2     9.2      1.8   -1.1
R durs  (IMF)                                0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total financing rseirements                  51.8    71.4    38.8    38.8    41.4   101.4    93.1    87.2    83.8   85.8
DIlbrsments from
comitments as of end 1989                    56.3    51.7    48.6    50.0      6.5     5.5     4.2      3.0     1.6    0.8
Grants                                       31.4    38.7    40.8    41.1       ..      ..      ..
Loans                                       24.9    13.0      7.8     8.9      6.5     5.5     4.2      3.0     1.6    0.8
Bilateral creditors                         6.2     6.3     8.1     5.9      2.0     1.4     1.2      1.0     0.7     0.5
ti4tilateral creditors                     18.7     6.7     2.2     3.0      4.5     4.1     3.0      2.0     0.9     0.3
of ihlch: IDi (project fInancIng)         4.7     4.4     2.0      1.5     3.9     3.1      1.7     1.2     0.6     0.0
of thlch: adjustment lenIng               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Private creditors                           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
iF purchanss                                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
SAP                                          0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Estitmted and Projected di sluments:1/
From post-1989 o m Itments                                                    41.2    58.8    71.0    75.6    77.4   78.3
Grants                                                                        41.2    55.1    58.9    55.5    55.8   55.8
Loans                                                                          0.0     3.7    14.1    20.2    21.0    22.4
81 lateral creditors                                                         0.0     2.2     5.9      7.7     8.0     8.2
i41tilateral creditors                                                       0.0     1.5     8.2    12.5    13.6    14.2
of hich: IDA (proJect financing)                                          0.0     1.1     2.1      1.4     1.2    0.9
of ohich: adjustment lending                                               0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Private creditors                                                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
IMF purchasQe                                                                  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
SAF                                                                            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Other capItal 2/                            -4.7    19.7    -9.8   -13.2    -8.3    -2.0    -1.9    -0.6        0.9    2.7
Total Inflow (actual and Projections)        51.5    71.4    38.8    38.8    41.4    62.3    73.2    78.1    79.9   81.8
FInancing gap                                0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    39.1    19.9      9.1     3.9    3.9
/ Exclucw IDA bERCAP qulck-disburting component, 1IF SAf, AfOF SAL, Frano  additlonal flnanolmi, EC, ad other BOP asuport.
2t Inluml  direct forelgn Investmt, and capital n.i.e.



33  -                                       Annex I
Page 3
cmRO.: Balance of Paywnts a ry
(siili lam of dollars)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Trade balamce                      -16.1   -24.3  -28.3   -30.6   -3.7  -3.1   -38.3
Exports (fob)                     18.1    17.1    18.9    21.0    22.2    24.0    28.4
Inports (f ob)                   34.2    41.4    47.2    51.6    55.9    60.1    64.7
Non-factor servIces                -21.3   -27.2  -31.7  -38.4   -40.4  -43.2  -45.8
Receipts                          17.5    18.4    19.5    20.8    22.3    24.0    28.2
Payments                          38.8    45.6    51.2    57.2    62.7    67.2    72.0
Factor services                      1.4   -0.4    -1.0    -0.8    -0.1       0.2      0.0
ReceIpts                           4.3     3.2     2.6      3.4     4.3     4.7      4.8
Payments                           2.9     3.6     3.6      4.1     4.4     4.5      4.8
Met private tranafers                2.7     3.2     3.3     3.8      4.2     4.9      5.7
Current acwnt balauce              -3.4   -48.7  -57.8   4W.2   -70.1   -74.1   -78.4
OFf icial trasfers & cap. grants 1/   41.1    41.2    55.1    58.9    55.5    55.8    55.8
Lrg-Tem capital Inflo                6.9     1.1     3.3    11.9    18.3    20.1    21.9
Direct Investment                  3.3     0.2     0.7      1.5     2.9     4.8      7.0
Net Lt loars                       3.6     0.9     2.6    10.4    15.3    15.3    14.9
Dlsbursements                    8.9     6.5     8.2    18.3    23.2    23.2    23.2
Rfeayments                       5.3     5.8     8.5      7.9     7.9     7.9      8.3
Other capital                      -16.4    -6.5    -2.7    -3.4    -3.5    -3.8    -4.2
Overall balancs                     -1.8   -12.9    -2.0      1.1     0.1    -2.1    -5.0
Financing                            1.8    12.9     2.0    -1.1    -0.1      2.1      5.0
1F (not)                          0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     i.0
Purcases                         0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Reprase                          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Net cwus In reserves              -5.3     4.2    -6.6   -12.2    -9.2    -1.8       1.1
Ouriga In eternal arrears          7.2     8.7   -31.5    -8.8      0.0     0.0      0.0
Financing gap                      0.0     0.0    39.1    19.0      9.1     3.9      3.9
Mrn Items:
FCMJS$ (average)                 319.0   272.3   272.3   272.3   272.3  m2.3   27.3
current accoun1tiEP (%)          -16.71%  -19.7%  -21.8X  -22.7%  -23.0%  -22.6%  -22.1%
1/ Exclude Franme additIonal financing



-34.
ANNEX II
COMOROS
MACROECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of key processing events
(a)  Preparation mission                December 1990
(b) Appraisal mission                   March 1991
(c)  Completion of negotiations         April 1991
sd)  Planned date of effectiveness      September 1991
Section TI - Special conditions of effectiveness
AfDF Board approval of its co-financing credit
Completion of the preparation of an action plan for civil
service reform.
Section III - Special conditions
Second tranche release conditions are set-out in paragraph 82 of
the report.



Anne x II
STATUS OF EANK OROUP OPERATIONS 114 COMROS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
Mercb 81, 1091
Amount tn US M1illIon
Loan or                                                              (lose  cancel tatton)
Credit    Fiscal                                                  ________                  _
number    Year          Borrower       Purpose                      fank   IDA (1) Undlebuered
6 credit  fully disbursed                                                     28.82
(No SAL* or SECALs)
Cr. 140    64            Comoro        Health A Population                     2.66       0.71
Cr. 1489    84           Comoro$       Rural Services                          S.00       1.48
Cr. 1761    87           Cotoros       Second Education                        7.90       7.70
Cr. 2207    e1           Coeoros       Highway Maintenance   /                 6.00       0.22
Sub-total active projects                                   22.85      16.60
Total lese cancellations:                                   45.97
of which has been repaid                                   0.17
Total now hold by Bank and IDA%                             88.26
Total undisbursed:                                          16.08
(1) Sum of Total now hold by IDA and Total Undisbureod Is higher than Total Outstanding
becouso of fluctuatlon of the US$.
a/ Not yet effective



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
FOR MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
SECTION A: Detailed Proiect Description
Background
1.          Administrative capacity in Comoros is generally weak, due to
the lack of qualified personnel and inadequate organizational structures.
A capacity building component Is, therefore, crucial to the success of the
country's reform program. Capacity building will deliberately focus on
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy,
Finance, the Budget and Planning since it has the primary responsibility
of implementing the reform program. Technical assistance has already been
provided to this ministry in the areas of customs and tax administrstion,
treasury accounts preparation, and statistical data collection by France,
the UNDP and the IMF.   The Bank has supplied short-term  technical
assistance in public finance. This credit provides longer-term support in
the area of macroeconomic management, specifically in macroeconomic
analysis capacity, PIP preparation and monitoring, budget preparation and
monitoring, Treasury organization and procedure improvement, reinforcement
of the debt management unit, and strengthening of the public enterprises
directorate.  This component is co-financed by UNDP under a technical
assistance project. The Bank will be associated executing agency for the
macroeconomic management component of the UNDP project and will as such,
ensure close coordination of the two projects.
Project Components
I. Economic Policy Analysis and Investment Programming
2.          Preparation and execution of the Public Investment Program
(PIP). Despite insufficient resources and weak technical capacity, the
first three-year PIP for 1991-1993 was prepared in December 1990.
However, the PIP process as a whole needs major Improvement. The project
would provide technical and material assistance to improve the preparation
and the monitoring of the rolling PIP, and the strengthening of the unit
in charge of the PIP preparation and execution. This unit would become
the focal point for elaboration of the PIP, coordination between sectoral



- 37 -
ministries, and follow-up of the PIP Implementation. Technical assistance
would be necessary to help the Government to (1) redefine the PIP
preparation methodology; ($1) Improve the PIP documents; (iii) enforce the
use of project selection criteria; (iv) prepare the 1991 work program; and
(v) draft guidelines for an improved computerized system. This Initial
assistance would be followed by a computerization mission; a mission of
support and review that would also provide training; and the provision of
the necessary computers, software, training and materials to operate the
new system.
3.          Macroeconomic analnsis and economic decision makint.  Until
recently, the Planning Directorate (DOP) focused mainly on reviewing
individual investment projects. This microeconomic analytical approach
prevented it from producing a sectoral and general synthesis. The initial
step would be to give DGP a structure to match all its missions and to
create a new service that would be in charge of the production of regular
and reliable statistics and national accounts, the definition and the
formulation of economic policies and sectoral strategies, and the
elaboration of short term economic forecasting.  The project would help
the GP to achieve this capacity through on-the-job training, technical
assistance missions and the supply of adequate technology. A mission
funded under the PPF has already defined the detailed framework for
project intervention and has helped the DGP to determine Its work program
for 1991. Further missions would help the DGP to elaborate the national
accounts for the past years, and disseminate techniques and tools for
economic analysis and forecasting.
11.  Improve Budget Preparation and Execution Process
4.          Methods and procedures for budget Prenaration and execution.
There is a need to institutionalise the budget preparation procedure. To
that end, technical assistance would be necessary to help the Government
determine the budget preparation schedule, the format and the content of
budgetary documents, the role of each actor in the budget process, and the
drafting of related guidelines. Technical assistance would also help the
Government redefine the structure of the Budget Directorate (DB) in order
to fulfill its mission in the newly defined procedure. In the short run,
technical assistance would provide aid to identify measures that would
allow the Government to produce quarterly statements on budget execution
during the current fiscal year, and to draft terms of reference for the
computerization of budget preparation and monitoring.   The budget
preparation schedule would be effective for the 1992 budget.
5.          Computerization of the Budaet Directorate (DB). The project
would support the computerization of budget preparation and monitoring
through the provision of computers, software, training and materials
needed to operate the system. This short-term aid would not dispense with
the need for a more elaborate system In the future. It would principally
help the DB to meet its quarterly deadline for budget execution reports
and to improve the quality of current information on public expenditure.



- 38 -
6.          Pregaration of a Budtetary Reform Program.  A longer-term
reform program would be initiated by the project with the aim of
structurally improving the overall budget process. The reform would seek
(i) a definition of the major budgetary instruments; (i) a tighter
commitment procedure; (iii) an improvement of the budget nomenclature;
(iv) an improvement in the process of estimating and presentation of
personnel and recurrent expenditure, and an improvement in the management
of personnel budgetary positions; (v) a reform of the accounting system
(see para. 10); (vi) a definition of adequate procedures for investment
expenditure and expenditure using foreign resources; and (vii) a revision
of public procurement procedures and monitoring.
7.          This reform, however, should take place gradually, to ensure
proper internalization and to minimize disruption in the budgetary
process.   For this longer-term component,  an action plan would be
established by September 1991, as well as an Implementation timetable over
the period 1992-1993.   Those tasks would be supported by short-term
technical assistance that would identify the reforms to be made and their
implementation schedule. The project would also support the formulation
and Implementation of these reforms through training, further technical
assistance and the acquisition of equipment to operate the new system.
III. Control and Accounting of Public Expenditures
8.          The project would aim at improving, or in some cases at
creating, the institutional framework and the procedures within which the
expenditures are decided, authorized and made. The appropriateness of
these expenditures would be examined by a newly created institution in
charge of all ex post controls (see para. 15).
9.          Financial Comptroller. The Financial Comptroller's role is to
verify that any expenditure proposed by the administration is legal, is
charged to the right item line, and that the remaining budget allocations
are sufficient to pay it.  The current organization, legislation and
practice, however, do not allow him to carry out his mission In a
satisfactory way. The budgetary reform will remedy the situation (see
para. 6). In the short term, the project will facilitate the Financial
Comptroller's task through the supply of computer equipment.   This
equipment and its related software would be identical to that furnished to
the DB (see para. 5).
10.         Treasury General.  All the payments made by the Federal and
Provincial Governments are made by the Treasury General. This institution
currently suffers from both organizational and procedural problems. The
former would be addressed by short-term technical assistance that would
help the Government redefine the organization of the Treasury General.
The subsequent reorganization would be supported by equipment and
training. The latter would be addressed by an In-depth examination of the
current public accounting system and procedures. The technical assistance
for this component would closely coordinate with the planned intervention
in the budget area.



- 39 -
11.         Audit coordination and grolects execution accounting.  The
project would fund a coordination unit to be created within the Ministry
of Finance, Economy, Budget and Planning, to be in charge of monitoring
audits and the accounting of World Bank Group-financed projects. To that
end, the Government will designate a coordinator. Monitoring and follow-
up would be performed under his/her responsibility in accordance with
World Bank procedures and would closely coordinate with the various
project management units.   The project would support the necessary
computer equipment, software and initial supplies. II would also finance
the audits as requested in paragraph 23 thereafter.
IV. Debt
12.         The debt management issue is closely linked to the monitoring
and preparation of the PIP.  At present, a unit in the Ministry of
Finance, directly responsible to the Minister's office, is in charge of
public exterior debt management. Over the past few years, the unit han
performed satisfactorily despite Insufficient equipment and unreliable
information. The system should be Improved with the aim of guaranteeing
the coherence of the information as well as easier access to that
information. Easier access would be pursued for the purpose of making
analyses and decisions. The project would finance the necessary equipment
and the technical assistnce to develop and Implement a new system
enabling the monitoring of new commitments, the follow-up of
disbursements, and debt service payments. This system would also provide
the necessary data output for the PIP preparation and follow-up.
V. Public Entergrises
13.         Directorate of Public Enterprises (DEP). The DEP is currently
insufficiently staffed and its role is poorly defined, although the
Government critically needs an administrative structure dealing with
public enterprise issues.   The Government should, therefore, clearly
define the missions of the existing DEP, and adequately staff It.
Specifically,  the DEP should be able tot   (i) ensure an adequate
Implementation and follow-up of the public enterprise component of the
adjustment program; (it) collect information and data on each public
enterprise, centralize and consolidate the public enterprise accountsg
(iii) prepare and monitor contrats-vlans; and (iv) Implement a uniform
accounting and auditing system among public enterprises. However, the DEP
should not interfere in any way with the public enterprises' management.
The project would back this reform through technical assistance for
launching the new organization, supply of computers ar I software, and
training of its staff, particularly  In accounting, management and
financial analysis. Furthermore, the project would sImultaneously provide
accounting update training to the relevant staff within the public
enterprises, with the Implementation of bookkeeping and financial
reporting standards, and accounting and auditing procedures.



. 40 -
14.         Restructuring of vublic enterprises.   The program aims at
substantial structural changes In most public enterprises. SOCOVTA an
COMOTEL should be privatized; ECOPOR and SONACOR should be merged; Air
Comores should focus on profitable activities and drop its cusrrent
Involvement in the tourism sector; EEDC and OPT should proceed with major
restructuring; the Government should negotiate and sign contrat-plans with
major public enterprises.   A review of the statutes of major public
enterprises aimed at making them similar to those for private firms would
be undertaken through the technical assistance component.
15.         Control of Public Entities.  The DEP will not be entrusted
with financial audit authority over public enterprises. An independent
public institution would assume this responsibility. The small size of
the country and the absence of any other institution able to presently
perform such a control lead to the Government's Intention to create a new
inspection body that would be entitled to audit the financial mnagement
of all public entities, including government agencies and public
enterprises. The precise range of authority this institution would be
granted, its procedures and Its relations with the judicial system have
yet to be determined. The decision on and the design of this control
institution are expected to be made during the new constitution drafting
process. The project would support this new institution through overseas
training, in order to give its members the needed expertise, and would
provide equipment and supplies.
VI. Studies
16.         In order to succeed in Its initial phase of adjustment, and
given the weakness of its administration, Comoros will require a number of
studies to be contracted out. Some of them have already been identifieds
taxation of petroleum products, price of rice, environment of the private
sector. The project would also fund a household consumption survey and
other studies as needed and in agreement with Bank staff.



- 41 -
SECTION Bs Prosect Administration and Implementation
Pro1ect Manaaement Secretariat
17.         A Project Management Secretariat (PMS) will be established In
the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget and Planning. The PMS will be
composed of three agents and will have a structure and mandate allowing it
to act quickly and efficiently to meet project management needs and
facilitate project implementation. Specificallys
the PMS will operate under the authority of a high-ranking
Government official from the Ministry of Finance, Economy,
Budget and Planning.
the Proiect Administrator will work full-time for the project
and be responsible for the preparation and follow-up of work
programs. Each work program would Include an evaluation of
the previous year's performance, a statement of objectives and
a description of planned activities to achieve these
objectives, training plans and details of logistic support
needed for effective implementation of the program.
the Administrator will be assisted by a Proiect Accountant
recruited on a full time basis to manage the project office,
keep project records, coordinate project activities and
facilitate implementation as needed. In addition to project
accounts, this officer would be responsible for authorizing
disbursements against the credit account and preparing
requests for replenishment of the special accounts aggregating
the snnual procurement plan based on the work programs for
review and approval by IDA; and for generating status reports
as required by the Government and IDA.
the PMS will also recruit support personnel (.aecretary,
messenger), as may be necessary for the efficient operation of
the PMS.
The project will finance equipment and supplies for the PHS,
as well as for the Permanent Committee in charge of following-
up the policy component of the MERGAP (see paragraph 54 of the
letter of Development Policy).
Project Cost and Financing
18.         Total costs of the capacity building component are estimated
at US$3.2 million equivalent, including taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$3 million or 93.7 percent of total costs. This
high proportion reflects the quasi-absence of local consulting capacity
and the need to import most of the planned equipment and supplies. Cost
estimates are based on March 1991 prices. The credit would provide 62.5
percent of the total costs. UNDP cofinancing would cover mainly technical
assistance, equipment and supplies for the public enterprises and civil



- 42 -
service reform, undertaken by the Comorian government during the present
program.
Procurement
19.         Purchases to be financed from the proposed capacity building
component are not large enough to attract international competition.
Contracts for office equipment, computers and vehicles spaced in time to
be financed from the credit valued in excess of US$30,000 equivalent will
be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures which will involve local
advertising, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, award to
lowest bidder and non exclusion of foreign bidders from participation.
All LCB document will be reviewed by IDA. Procurement of small items
financed from IDA credit and estimated at less than US$30*000 equivalent
and up to a cumulative total of US$150,000 equivalent will be done by
international/local shopping after solicitation of quotations from no
fewer than three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines. Consultants
would be employed for studies, advisory services and technical assistance,
staff training, system design ard software development. Their selection,
qualification, experience and tarms and conditions of employment would be
subject to normal IDA review  rocedures as set out in the World Bank's
Guidelines for Use of Consu -ants.  Terms of reference for Identified
consultant services have been agreed upon during negotiations. Training
would be procured on the basis of prior consultation and in accordance
with procedures agreed with the Bank.   Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Schedule B. All procurement exceeding US$20,000 will be
subject to prior review.
Disbursements
20.         The proposed capacity building component is expected to be
disbursed in three years. Disbursements would be made against 100 percent
of the cost of consultants, training, 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost or
852 of the local cost of materials, equipment and supplies, vehicles,
offices supplies and consumables; and 100 percent of repayment of the PPF.
A special account with an authorized allocation of US$200,000 would be
opened in a commercial bank and would be operated according to standard
IDA procedures. This amount would cover estimated eligible expenses for
a 4 month-period. To the extent possible, all eligible payments would be
made from this account. The account would be replenished by IDA on the
basis of eligible aggregated withdrawal request; minimum replenishment
application size would be US$100,000. All withdrawal applications would
be fully documented, except for contracts below US$20,000 equivalent for
which disbursements will be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). In such cases the supporting relevant documentation will be
retained for review by IDA supervision missions and the external auditors.



- 43 -
Pro1ect Implementation Schedule
21.         Some activities under the proposed capacity building component
are currently being Implemented with funding under the Project Preparation
Facility. The proposed capacity building would be implemented over a 3-
year period.  The timing of key activities and summary implementation
schedule are shown in Schedule C. The proposed component would be split
in two phases. The first one already began and would continue until March
1992.   It is designed to provide strong short-term support to the
administration. The second phase, planned to last until December 1993,
would support the long term implementation of the new techniques and
procedures, mainly through training and follow-up missions.
Accounts and Audits
22.         Separate accounts for all expenditures funded under the credit
would be maintained. The project accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and the report on findings,
including a long form report, prepared as described in the Guidelines on
Financial Reporting and Auditing. Audit reports would include a separate
opinion with regard to the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs.
Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of the fiscal year.   The coordinating unit would submit semi-annual
progress reports on project implementation and expenditure to the
Government and IDA and would also prepare a Project Completion Report
within six months after the closing date of the credit.



- 44 -
Schedul- A
COMOROS
MACROECONOMIC REFORM  AND CAPACm  wILDIN  CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Estimated Costs                                    Local    Foreign       Total
(UMg milion)
A.  Reinforcement of tho 00P                       0.02       0.40         0.48
Preparation and execution of PIP              0601        0.20         0.26
Economic analysis capacity                     6.01       0.26         0.22
B. Reinforcement of D8                             6.O4       0.65         0.69
Preparation and executlon of budget            .001       0.10         O.11
Computerization of tho D0                       -         0.26         0.25
Preparation of budget reform                   0.02       0.16         0.17
Implementetlon of the new system               0.01       0.15          .16
C. Control of Expenditures                         0.08       0.60         0.68
Reinforcement of the financial comptroller      6.01      0.16         0.18
Reinforcement of the Goneral Treasury           6.O1      6.80         0.81
Audits and accounting coordinatlon             O.01       6.06         6.08
0. Reinforcement of the Debt Manase_ nt Unit      0601        0.20         0.21
E. Public Enterurlsos                              O0$        0.560        0.53
Reinforcement of the OEP                       6.01       0.16         6.16
Restructuring of the PE Sector                 6.61       0.20         0.21
Control of public entities                     0.01       6.15         0.17
F. Studios                                          -         0.80         0.80
0. Mnasement A Administratlon                      0.02       0.26         0.27
sees cost                               0.15      2.60         2.95
Physical contingencies                          -         0.20         0.20
Price contingencies                             -         e.           0.20
Total project costs                    06 1        8.00         8.15
Tax and Duty                                   6.05        -           0.065
Total project costs                     0.20       8.90         8.20
(ntt. tax and duty)
Financing Plan                                     Local    Foreign       Total
(USI millon)
Government                                   0.20        -          0.20
UNDP                                          -         1.00        1.00
IDA                                           -2.00                 2.06
Total                                                  M.          8.2ao



- 4C -
Schedule B
COMOROS
MACROECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procuroment Method
Project Element
Tot.
ICs            LCD                Other           Cost
Advisory Services                                                 2.00           2.90
and studies                                                     (1.85)        (1.85)
TrainIng                                                          0.40           0,40
(0.25)        (0.26)
Equipment, supplies,                          0.40                0.16           0.6t
materials, and                             (0.25)               (0.15)        (0.49)
vehicles
Operating and                                                     0.20           0.20
maintenance costs
TOTAL s/                                      0.40                2.75           8.15
(9.26)              (1.75)        (2.99)
!/ Not of tax and duty
Note: Figures In parentheses are the amount financed by IDA
DISBURSEMENTS
Category                    Amount                   Percent
(US8 million)
Consultant services          0.96           1I93 of expenditures
& studles
Training                     0.10            100  of expenditures
Equipment, supplies,         0.25            1001 of elf costs
materials, & vehicles                       85X of local expenditures
Refunding of PPF             0.60            100X of expenditures
Unallocated                  0.10
2.00
Estimated IDA Disbursements                    IDA Fiscal Year
1992           199S           1994
(Usf-muTI Ion)
Annual                               1.00           0.70           0.30
Cumulative                           1.00           1.70            2.00



- 46 -
Schedule C
COMOROS
MACRO ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIDING CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
SUMMARY DEscRIPTioN OF CONSULTANCY RETIMREMENTS
(in US9 me9)
Component/Activity                    Duratlon     Estimated    Estimated    Firm or
in Mm        Start-up      Coot"    Individual 1L
A.    Reinforcement of tho COP
1. PIP Preparation and Monitoring
Short term assistance                     2          4/91          as
Assistance to lmplementation              6          2/92          g9
2. Computerization of PIP system
Short term assistanco and
on the job training                       a          6/91           4C
3. Economic Monitoring Capacity
Short term asesetonce                     6         10/91           76
B.    Reinforcement of D0
4. Budget Propsration Procedure
Advisory services                         1          5/91           16
S. Prep. of a Budgetary Reform Program
Adv *ory servIeJ                          1          7/91           16
Implementation                            6          7/92           so
6. ComDutertzFtlon of Budgetary System
Short term assistance                     4          9/91           Of
Computerization                          19         10/92          169
C.    Contrtl of Expenditure
7. Restructuration of the Treasury
Short term assistance                     4          6/91           60
0.    Reinforcement of the Debt Monag. Unit
B. Public Debt Mana=ement
Shorti term-iilinticee                    4          6/91           as
E.    Control of Public entities
Advisory services                         8          1/92           45
F.    Studios
Petroleum a rico pricing                  1          3/91           15
Private sector regulatory envIron.        2          3/91           30
Nat. Accounts update & training           2          6/91           so
Household survey; Soci;l indicators      10          9/91         10
Other studies                            10          1/93          15S
Hotels valuation                          2          7/91           69
0.    Project Management
Training                                  2          8/91           89
Government assistance                     2          1/92          89
Audits & accounting                       2          4/92           89
i It hs not been determined at this tim  If the services related to thse activities
will be proviwed by consulting firms or Individual consultants.  However, If In any
dlcipliln more than * Individual* aro rquired, a firm wtil be the preferred choice.



>    *  4            f Si ^      E  >fl~ < @>    n@      *  "@      -
5   11  ;    _----------------------;--------I-
ij                 in                          I j         '1            -! --ii--1' I 
1!^---  ----^------i§---!          --.,-----i-----,------  ----
I  ldI                      ,I                                              W I  ,  '  WI  VI
--------                       Is                                  7--  ,   ,.----I' -  
llf                  ,.   I    t    ,                       ,              iI  [R
VV_ I              It      I
------------------1 --   ----                                        -      - ---         ---'
-= --------  ---= =         =L       -=    -=          - --=------==---=
---- ---   ----         ----
-- --833----                                    --   -
835~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



- 48 -
ANNEX v
(original in French)
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Letter of Development Policy
A.    GENERAL CONTEXT
1.   After rapid economic growth in the early 1980s (about 7 percent
annually) due mainly to an ambitious but unproductive public Investment
program, real growth in the gross domestic product (GDP) slowed progressively
to an estimated 0.4 percent in 1989. For 1990, real growth in the GMP was
estimated at 1.5 percent. Investment rate fell from 21 percent of GDP In the
mid-1980s to 11 percent in 1990, due mainly to a sharp cut in public
investment as a result of a fall in external aid. Since 1985, the decline in
economic activity, combined with a deterioration in the terms of trade, has
led to a drop of 14 percent in per capita consumption.
2.    The balance of payments position worsened in 1990 on account of higher
oil prices and a fall in export earnings due to lower vanilla and clove
exports. The consolidated budget deficit, Including grants, declined from 14
percent of the GDP in 1985 to only 1.1 percent in 1990, owing to the fall in
capital expenditure and the slower growth of current expenditure. Rowever,
excluding grants, this deficit amounted to 17.8 percent of GDP in 1990.
Domestic payments arrears built up to about 15 percent of GDP by the end of
1990. The external public debt rose from around US$43 million in 1980 to
US$162 million at the end of 1989 (80 percent of GDP). External payments
arrears stand at about 20 percent of GDP. The government is determined to
embark on a structural adjustment program to correct these Imbalances, to pay
off arrears and to set the country back on a path to sustainable growth.
B.   RECENT ADJUSTMENT MEASURES
3.    In view of the deteriorating economic and financial situation, the
government began taking measures in 1989 to liberalize the economy, Improve
prospects for economic growth and improve public finance. The Government
started by abolisaing all export duties and stabilization fund levies on
cloves and copra. In 1990, vanilla exports were liberalized by reducing from
15 tons to 5 tons the minimum yearly export for entry into the market, in
order to stimulate competition in vanilla trade and promote the export
sector. In addition, stabilization fund levies on vanilla were eliminated
with the abolition of the Fund itself, and export duties on vanilla were cut
by more than half. To increase production and incomes in the agriculture



- 49 -
sector, the producer price for vanilla has been Increased from CF 1,800 to CF
2,500 per kilogram.   At the same time, the cigarette Importing monopoly
(STAC) has been dissolved and the import monopoly of cigarettes hs been
abolished.
4.    In order to create a climate propitious for the resumption of private
investment, a draft Investment Code has been prepared.   This code will
simplify the procedures and formalities necessary for approval of private
investments. In addition, a uniform accounting system has been adopted.
Finally, efforts are under way to revitalize the Chamber of Commerce and make
its management and activity in4ependent of the Government.
5.    In public finance, the Government has taken steps to Improve fiscal
revenue and to contain the growth of operating expenditure.  Major efforts
are being made to reduce customs fraud and tax evasion; customs services have
been strengthened, frequency of checking has been increased and penalties
have been Imposed on offenders.  Partly on account of these efforts, 1990
receipts from import tax and customs duty are estimated to have been 28
percent higher than 1989.  Moreover, considerable effort has been put into
the mobilization of non-tax revenue by strengthening and budgeting the profit
payments of State import monopolies such as the petroleum import company
(SCH) and the rice import monopoly (ONICOR).
6.    As for expenditures, the Government has maintained a freeze on public
service salaries and internal promotions.   Personnel numbers in the armed
services have been reduced by about one third. At the same time, capital
expenditure has decreased appreciably due to the completion of investments
commenced under the Interim plan and to the decline in disbursements of
foreign assistance because of external arrears. Audits of the main public
enterprises (11 out of a total of 13) have been conducted and their results
have served to formulate action plans for the restructuring, privatization or
liquidation of the enterprises concerned.
7.    On the basis of reforms introduced in 1989 and 1990, the Comorian
authorities have decided to intensify their adjustment efforts v ; expand
their scope within a coherent macroeconomic framework. To this end, the
Government has collaborated closely with the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund in the formulation of a coherent adjustment program. In order
for them to produce their full effect, these efforts by the Comorian
Government will need prompt, significant and sustained support from the
international community.
C.   GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
I. Economic Policy Obiectives and Priorities
S.    The main objectives of the government's economic reform program are
described in the Policy Framework Paper (1991-1993) prepared in collaboration
with the staff of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).



- s0 -
These objectives are tot (a) create an environment that will make it
ultimately possible to increase real per capita income and to improve living
standards while maintaining financial stabilityg (b) significantly reduce the
domestic and external imbalances and reestablish normal relations with
donors; (c) hold inflation down to a level that would lead to gradual
Improvement in the competitiveness of the Comorian economy; and (d) ease, in
the long-term, demographic pressures and their adverse effects on the
environment.   Accomplishment of these objectives will require the adoption
of reforms and policies designed to encourage private enterprise. Market
mechanisms will be facilitated with a view to efficient resource allocation
and the restoration of a climate of clarity, frankness and confidence likely
to attract foreign and national private capital.   The adoption of an
appropriate public investment program and the resumption of external
financing ought to provide a foundation for achievement of the economic and
social objectives set. The economic policy measures that have been adopted
in the context of this program are described in the following section.
II. The Civil Service Reform
9.    The Government plans to reform the civil service by reducing the work
force to levels more in keeping with the country's real needs and ensuring
that it is well-managed and motivated. Irregular hirings, delay in salary
payments and the lengthy freeze on salaries and advances, have helped erode
any incentive to perform efficiently, and have brought about a decline in the
quality of public services. To make the budget viable, it is essential to
reform the civil service and reduce personnel costs considerably.   The
program's objectives provide for a return to salary increases and promotions
once the civil service has been reduced and reorganized.
10.   In the last quarter of 1990, the Government made a census of civil
service employees.   The initial results indicated a number of anomalous
situations.   Some retired employees were paid, while salary payments to
others In anomalous situations were terminated or suspended. The personnel
employed in the Governorates and the road fund was reduced.
11.   The Government has confirmed the findings of the census by examining
them jointly vith the relevant agencies, and by performing on-the-spot
Inspections. All anomalies have been corrected, and the amended finance law
reflecting the corrections presented to Parliament.   The civil service
register will be constantly updated, and salary payments will be settled and
computerized.
12.   In the second phase (to be completed before the end of September 1991),
the Government will assess its personnel needs and prepare a plan for
encouraging employees to leave the service or to take voluntary retirement.
The government also will prepare a plan for initiating personnel
redeployments and reductions.



- 51 -
13. In the third phase (to be completed In 1992), the civil service action
plan will be implemented. Accelerated on-the-job training will be provided
for redeployed personnel, and a system of compensation will be prepared for
employees leaving the service. Regulations governing civil service personnel
will be reformed.
III. Public Enterprises Reform
14.  The public-enterprise sector is small, consisting of 13 enterprises
concerned with services, utilities, transportation, and Import monopolies.
There are no industrial public enterprises. Recently, governmer.t audits have
brought to light shortcomings in the management of these enterprises and in
the supervision exercised by the Government itself. These audits were taken
Into account during the preparation of the program described below.
15.   The Government is determined to withdraw gradually from all activities
directly concerned with production.   To this end, it does not plan to
establish any new public enterprises, and will redefine its role with those
already In existence. From 1991 to 1993, its main objectives will be as
followst (1) the privatisation of import enterprises, except for those with
a strategic role, and the withdrawal from the hotel sector; (2) the
management of public enterprises based on economic criteria and autonomy,
with a minimum of government Intervention; (3) the increased openness In the
management of these enterprises and their relationship with the Government;
(4) the application of the uniform accounting system and the upgrading of
accounts and financial statements; (5) the settlement of government debts
towards and reciprocal debts among the enterprises, as part of a program for
reducing domestic arrears; (6) the formalixation of performance contracts
with the main enterprises remaining in the public sector.
16.  Rationalization of the sector. The Government will study taxation and
price fixing as applied to petroleum products and rice, to ensure both that
its budgetary revenue is stable and that the most vulnerable social groups,
the environment and domestic food production are safeguarded. Retail price
movements will be based on the import price movements. SCH will sell its
filling stations. Imports of high-grade rice have been liberalized.
17. During a transition period before the private sector is equipped to
supply the meat Import demand of the population, SOCOVIA will continue to
import meat, but will progressively reduce its share of the market.  The
Government's intermediate objectives will be for the private sector to
account for at least 40 percent of imports by the end of 1991 and 70 percent
of imports by the end of March 1992. It will adopt the necessary measures
for ensuring that these objectives are achieved, Including facilitating
private importers' access to bank credit.  A privatization plan will be
prepared by the end of 1991, and all necessary steps for privatization
(including advertising to the public) will be completed by the end of June
1992. In order to safeguard public health, the Government will strengthen
its meat Inspection services.



- 52 -
18.   The Government intends to withdraw from the hotel sector, and to
privatize hotels belonging to the COMOTEL group, as agreed by the
shareholders. By the end of 1991, the hotels will be valued, and during 1992
the Government will actively promote their sale.
19.   A plan for merging ECOPOR and SONACOR will be presented to the Federal
Assembly in the first half of 1991. The shipping vessels currently operated
by the public sector will be transferred to the private sector.   The
contracts conceding shipping operations to SCC and goods handling to SOCOMA
will be reviewed in the light of an objective valuation of the assets
transferred and the services provided.  Port tariffs will be adjusted in the
light of the rates applied in competing countries.
20.   By the end of 1991, Air-Comores will no longer engage in ancillary
tourism-related activities such as car rental.   In 1991, a study of the
Dar es Salaam route will be made, for the purpose of either making it
profitable or closing it down. Inter-island fares will be revised so as to
bring about an increase in profitable traffic.
21.   Studies will be made of EEDC and OPT rates, In order to establish them
at economically optimum levels.   To this end, economic audits of these
enterprises will be made, and their rates will be adjusted during 1992. OPT
will prepare a report assessing its personnel needs, together with a plan for
personnel reductions.   The Government will submit to the upcoming Board
meetings of these two enterprises the plan for substituting a lump sum In
place of the free benefits currently enjoyed by their employees.
22.   In 1992, the Government will prepare a personnel reduction plan for
public enterprises, in order to reabsorb redundant employees in accordance
with the recommendations of the audits.
23.   Manaaement reforms.  The Government plans to improve the system for
monitoring public enterprises by establishing a government finance
tnspectorste and strengthening the Directorate of Public Enterprises
(Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget and Planning). A uniform accounting
system will be disseminated to enterprises during 1991 so that it may be
applied In 1992. The managements of the enterprises will prepare performance
contracts in 1992.
24.   Before end 1991, an inventory of the reciprocal arrears owed by the
public enterprises and the Governmont, will be drawn up with a plan for
settling these arrears.
IV. Public ExDgenditures Reform
25.   The government plans to maintain and strengthen its prudent policy for
reducing the budget deficit and improving the balanee of payments position.
At the same time the Government plans to continue regularly servicing its
public debt. To this end, it will seek to control Increases In expenditure,
while ensuring that financing is provided for priority programs in the social



- 53 -
sectors and ensuring that capital assets are properly maintained. It vill
therefore implement a resource allocation process based on an expenditure
strategy that clearly defines development priorities. The Government will
also implement, a three-year public investment program (PIP), and a sectoral
public expenditure program (PEP), consistent with the its priorities. The
Government will take steps to improve budget resource allocation, and will
strengthen expenditure program preparation by integrating the preparation
processes of the budget and the PIP.   Government administration will be
strengthened by measures designed to increase civil service efficiency.
26.   The public investment protram.  The Government has Introduced a public
investment programming process covering all Government and public enterprise
investment, regardless of source (for example, loans, grants, counterpart
funds or own resources). Each year, a three-year rolling Public Investment
Program (PIP) will be prepared. In the government's capital budget, total
investment will be precisely equivalent to the first sanual listallment of
the PIP. The first PIP (1991-93) was prepared before the end of 1990. The
1991 capital budget is exactly in line with the 1991 tranche of the PIP. The
three-year rolling investment program will be reviewed annually, in the light
of project execution and macro-economic constraints. Beginning with the 1992
budget, the PIP will be submitted to Parliament for approval at the same time
as the Finance Law.
27.   Investment projects for the PIP will be selected on the basis of their
contribution to the country's development.   Consequently, the following
selection criteria will be strictly applied:  (1) contribution must be to the
Government's  explicitly  declared  sector  strategies;  (2)  there  must
be consistency with other activities in the sector in question; (3) in the
social sectors, the least-cost method must be applied; (4) in the relevant
sectors, selection must be based on ae economic rate of return of at least 10
percent; (5) there must be compliance with requirements for local counterpart
financing; (6) there must be certainty that the budget can bear the recurrent
costs of the project over the short and long terms.
28.  Public expenditure programs. In order to control public expenditure and
ensure a proper balance between current and development expenditure, the
Government will elaborate sectoral Public Expenditure Programs (PEPs). In
each scetor, the capital and recurrent expenditures of individual programs
will be placed together in order to show their objectives, the resources
provided, and the relationships between the various types of resources (for
example, investment, personnel, maintenance and goods and services). There
will be absolute consistency between the budget, the PIP and the PEPs. PEPs
for health and education will be prepared for 1992 and taken into account In
the 1992 budget, after which the PEP process will be extended to the other
main sectors.
29.   Budxet preparation and monitoring.  The Government will review public
expenditure annually, in order to rationalize budget preparation and allocate
resources in a manner safeguarding the social sectors, and the key
departments responsible for economic and financial management.



- 54 -
30. Expenditure monitoring, management accounting and cash accounting will
be strengthened. Quarterly budget execution statements will be prepared.
31. Procedures for the systematic approval of loans and aid will be
established in order to efficiently monitor public debt and the PIP. Any
agreement involving financial commitment or provision of guarantee on the
part of the Government must be signed by the Minister of Finance.   Any
agreement for borrowing funds or obtaining aid to finance public investment
projects must receive the approval of the Minister of Planning.
32.   The legislation on public contracts will be reviewed before the end of
1992. Procedures will be established for monitoring government-financed
contracts, including the requirement that the government comptroller's
approval be obtained.
33.   New procedures for budget and PIP preparation will be established in
1991. The budget circular will be reviewed, and the budget schedule will be
brought forward so that the necessary conferences can be held in August/
September.
34. After these more immediate measures have been adopted, budget reforms
gradually will be introduced for Improving the system of expenditure
monitoring, and reexamining budget nomenclature and the accounting system.
A work program (including identification of essential points) and a work
schedule for the 1992-93 period will be prepared before the end of September
1991.
V. Increased Competitiveness and Export Promotion
35. The Government is determined to improve the economic environment and
provide incentives to encourage the development of ths private sector.
Particular interest Is focussed upon small and medium-sized enterprises
engaged in the production of nontraditional export crops, such as fishing,
tourism and manufacturing. To this end, Its plans are tot (1) streamline
administrative  procedure  for  establishing  enterprises;  (2)  remove
administrative constraints affecting prices, imports, exports, employment,
and wages and salarios; (3) revise the Investment code In order to promote
both foreign and domestic private lnvestment; and (iv) encourage exports and
enhance economic competitiveness.
36.   The country's competitiveness has been eroded by the appreciation of
the Comorian franc vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. Although the Government does
not plan to adjust the exchange rate In the short term it has begun to adopt
alternative  measures  for  dealing  directly  with  the  problem  of
competitiveness. A prudent monetary policy has kept the country's inflation
rate below those of its partners.  For 1990 exports, the tax applied to
vanilla was reduced by over 50 percent, and those on cloves and copra were
abolished. In addition, stabilization fund levies have been eliminated. For
Imports, the Government has launched a tariff reform to simplify import duty
and tax, rationalize rates, and increase the yield from customs receipts.



- 55 -
The first phase of the reform provides for the adoption of a harmonized
system for the codification of goods, for the elimination of tho consumption
surcharge, for the reduction of exemptions, and for the revision of customs
duty and the revision of consumption tax. In the second phase, the tariff
structure will be simplified and rationalized, with the number of different
rates reduced from 42 to 4. The differentials between rates will be reduced,
with the maximum level falling from 300 percent to about 76 percent.
Overall, the reforms will have a positive impact on revenue because of the
improved collection rate resulting from the computerization of clearance
procedures, the integration of the tariff into the ASYCUDA system, and the
strengthening of the customs services. The Government also intends to study
the possibility of directly reducing production costs, together with the
possible exemption from tax of the fuel oil consumed by the electric power
company.   It will also adopt a flexible policy on producer prices for
vanilla. These will be determined in the light of export prices and the need
to provide producers, processors and exporters with an appropriate level of
return.
37. The Government liberalized vanilla exports in 1990 in order to
encourate competition. Reduction of the minimum exportable volume from 15
tons to 5 tons has enabled new operators to enter the market, and competition
is likely to increase in the future. Deregulation has also been applied to
imports of cement and cigarettes (after the abolition in 1990 of the
cigarette monopoly).   In January 1991, the Government issued a decree
liberalizing meat imports, and intends to take all necessary steps to make
this measure effective. In particular this involves the privatization of
SOCOVIA, which held a monopoly of meat Imports. Similarly, imports of high-
grade rice have been liberalized. The Government will seek to deregulate
totally all industrial and commercial activities, except for Imports of
petroleum products and regular-grade rice.
38. The Government also plans to implement reforms for reducing its
economic role and activity. The administrative procedure for establishing an
enterprise Is still complex and lengthy, and is to be streamlined by
establishing a one-step window mechanism. Advance approval from the Minister
of Economy will no longer be necessary. In order to attract capital and
promote private investment, the Investment code will be revised so that
granting of its benefits will be as simple, nonexclusive and automatic as
possible. Application of the code must not lead to distortions in the choice
of economic activity.   Lead time for authorization will be shortened.
Similarly, the Labor Code will be reviewed. If necessary, the code will be
made more flexible, with the removal of any provisions that hinder employee
hirings and dismissals, and thereby hinder the establishment of enterprises.
The Government plans to systematically study, simplify and reduce
administrative control on the establishment of enterprises, employment,
imports and prices. Once the study has been completed, the government will
prepare an action plan for reducing administrative constraints and
encouraging private-sector activity. As far as possible, the government will
remove all obstacles to economic activity, whether these take the form of
controls on prices or margins, of requirements for advance approval to



- 56 -
establish companies, of constraints on employee hiring and dismissal, or of
the need for Import and export licenses.
39.   The  Government  will  favor  the  establishment  of  private-sector
organisations such as a Chamber of Comerce, managed by the private sector
itself and with officers elected by the private sector.
VI. Principles. Approaches and Strategic Criteria
In the Social and Environmental Spheres
40.   The Comorian Government considers secomplishment of its social and
development objectives to be dependent on restoring real per capita economic
growth. This could be achieved by the combination of macroeconomic policies
and institutional reforms described below.   In addition, the Government
Intends to reallocate resources in favor of essential services such as family
planning, basic education, primary health care and protection of the
environment.
41. The Government will endeavor to mitigate to the fullest possible extent
the negative impacts of certain adjustment measures on the most vulnerable
groups, especially the impact of reform in the civil service. With support
from the international community, the Government will undertake specific
actions In various fields based on the following criteria:
-     The most thorough possible targeting of beneficiary groups;
-     Integration of the existing social structures, village groups and
other  local  associations  into  the  preparation,  possible
financing, and execution of these actions;
-     Keeping costs as low as possible, which means among other things
that each action must be limited in time and tightly managed;
-     Financial programming and budgeting in a clear and transparent
budgetary framework.
42.  In the education sector, the Government's main objectives are to
increase primary school enrollment, to enhance the relevance of training, to
improvo the quality of service at the primary and secondary levels and to
develop literacy. Improving the quality of education will be accomplished
by, among other things, proper training for teachers, without extending the
tie required for training or raising the admission requirements for students
entering the ENNI, by reinforcing teacher support services, and by
reallocating resources to non-wage current education expenditures. Efforts
designed to reduce repetition rates and to upgrade the quality of instruction
will make possible a significant increase in primary enrollments over the
medium term. The adequation of training with the needs of the economy will
be Improved by the application of technical and vocational courses. These



- 57 -
will be organisod In such a way that they can be easily offered or dropped as
needed. Further assistance will be available through employment placement
services.
43.   This strategy will be financed by means of the savings resulting from
vigorous rationalization measures, including strict regulation of student
flows to the secondary and higher levels. In addition, the reorganization of
the civil service should lead to a significant reduction in the number of
administrative pertonnel. Finally, the development of private education will
continue to be encouraged.  The supervision of private education must be
strengthened and the number of hours taught by public-school teachers in
private establishments must be limited. Implementation of this strategy will
call for the strengthening of institutional capacities by measw of external
assistance. The function of such external assistance will be progressively
taken over by national staff with equivalent qualifications.
44.   In the health and population field, the government will continue to
pursue the following objectives: (1) lowering the population natural growth
rate and (2) reducing the population's morbidity and mortality rates,
especially among mothers and children. To this end the Comorian government
will pursue its family planning policy by means of more systematic
information and education campaigns, and by means of more intensified and
generalized distribution of contraceptives. The Government will also devote
special attention to multisectoral activities capable of supporting the
family planning program.    Among these are educating girls, expanding
economic roles for women, gathering and disseminating data concerning the
country's  demographic  situation  (census,  demographic  surveys),  and
integrating demographic variables into the development program.
45.   In addition,  the Government will support priority public health
programs, such as the Expanded Program on Immunization (the EPI), Maternal
and Child Health (MCH), the supply of essential drugs and the control of
epidemics. The Government will take all necessary steps on the one hand to
enable the Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comores (PNAC) to set up
management, distribution, and supply systems for essential drugs at
affordable prices; and on the other hand, to implement a legislative, legal
and administrative framework ensuring the functioning of cost-recovery
systems in health. To the control of familiar epidemics must now also be
added the control of transmission of AIDS.
46. The Government will endeavor to maintain on a per capita basis in real
terms at least the present level of public resources allocated to health
services. At the same time, the Ministry of Public Health and Population will
take steps to ensure:  (1) reallocation and budget performance that will
improve the quality of health care and guarantee execution of the other
priority programs identified above; (2) better human resource management and
planning; and (3) greater participation by the beneficiary population.
47. The cutbacks in non-personnel operating expenditure during previous
years have led to a serious deterioration in the quality of care and a low
level of service usage. The Government will take the following corrective



- 58 -
measures: (1) the rationalization of health personnel expenditure enabling
the use of released funds for other operating expenses; (2) the establshment
of (non-personnel) operating expenditure standards in order to upgrade the
quality of the health services; (3) the assurance of budgetary funds for
operating expenditure, and (4) the improvement of expenditure tracking
procedures.
48.  The Government will take steps to ensure that funds earmarked for
priority health purposes are not diverted to other uses. In particular, It
intends to strictly limit payment for emergency health treatment abroad. For
this purpose, the Government will establish an evacuation comlittee to
approve  each  expenditure.    The Ministry  of Public Health's  capital
expenditure efforts will be concentrated on rehabilitation of the existing
health Infrastructure, since the density of the present system is considered
adequate.
49.   The Government will take steps to remedy overstaffing, a lack of
qualified staff and underutilization of personnel in the health sector.
First, a staffing plan will be prepared to normalize the health services by
means of a reassignment process, and to provide a basis for planning future
recruitment and preparing training programs. Second, an effort will be made
to identify incentives for attracting health personnel to the peripheral
areas, such as a "regionalization" policy, recruitment by the National Health
School and payment of special allowances to staff who agree to work in
outlying regions.   Third, a study will be made on the qualifications of
health personnel, their grade in the civil service scale and their career
possibilities, in order to ensure equity and clarity within the reform of the
civil service.
50.   The  Government  will  foster  greater  participation  by  service
beneficiaries in the formulation, financing and management of health
development activities. The population's participation will be encouraged by
the formation of development committees at village level and the
representation of beneficiaries in health service management committees.
Beneficiaries will be expected to contribute financially toward the cost of
drugs and care, although exceptions will be made for indigent beneficiaries.
51.   To deal with the special problems of young people, the Government will
encourage and diversify technical training and vocational guidance for
school-age children not otherwise attending school. This training is to be
aligned with the labor market's requirements.   In the case of public
employees who leave the civil service, the Government will provide for
appropriate compensation such as the granting of loans severance pay, and
other forms of assistance necessary for setting up enterprises.
52.  The Government will encourage participation by Comorian women in
economic activity to enhance women's income-generating capability. Further
to this end, it will promote the establishment of education programs for
women and it will favor the popularization of time-saving appliances such as
improved stoves and kerosene cookers.



- 59 -
53. In view of the serious problems of soil degradation, the Government is
detevmined to take steps to protect the fragile natural environment. An
environmental action plan has been prepared for the island of Anjouan. In
conjunction with donors and non government organizations (NGO0), the
government is going to embark on a set of studies and pilot projects designed
to check village reactions to a range of activities and incentives.  The
pilot projects on anti-erosion terracing have been started and reforestation
projects are planned. The Government has reduced the price of kerosene from
CF 205 to CF 125 per liter in order to encourage the use of kerosene instead
of firewood. In addition, steps have been taken zo enforce the prohibition
against the use of sea sand for construction and the use of coral for lime
manufacture. Private enterprises have been encouraged to undertake pozzolana
crushing to produce a cheaper substitute for sea sand as a construction
material.
VII. Program Coordination and Monitorint
54. The Government recognizes that coordination of the various measures and
close monitoring and follow-up will be essential for the implementation of
Its adjustment program. For this purpose, the Government has established a
permanent committee to monitor program implementation and to coordinate
external assistance supporting  it.   In addition,  the government will
establish a monitoring group, to preserve and to foster market competition,
particularly in the import trade.



ANIIEX VI
COMOROS - POLICY MATRIX
aCROECONOMIC REFORi AMD CAPACITY WILDIN  CT                                                         P  
SECTOR                        OBJECTIVES                               EAStURES                                           TIMETAILE
I.  Civil Service Reform          Reduce wage bill and provide the  -  Validate tivil service consu  results.                 Aptil 1991
government with a smller, better  -  Corret lrregularties In the payroll.                   April 1991
manoged, and gore motivated       -  Agree on en action plan to reduce excess               end-SePtember 1091
work force.                           personnel:  voluntary doparture and
redeploymeant of personnl.
-   Implement the abov, action plan.                     During 1992*.
-  Review organizational structure end the               During Program period
associated legislative frwework.
II. Public Enterprise Reform      Increase efficiency In the         -  Disengage from productive and                         During program period
parastatal sector.                    comercial activities.
-  Agree on a progrsa to  ettle cross-arrears.           Oecember 199S
-  Apply the uniform accunting system.                   1992
-  Formulate action plan to reduce the overstaffing      1092
of public enterprises.
A. Petroleum Import           Improve monsgoment.                -  Privati"e gSn stations owne  by SCH.                  Febftary 1SS2
monopoly (SCM)            Ensure constant budget revowenue.   -  Complete review on taxation and pricing              may 1991
of petroteum products. 
-  Revive retail price of petroleum product.             JUne Im99
S.  Meat Import monopoly      Limit State's role to hebath       -  Privatize or dissolve SOCOVIA.                        June 1992IS
(SOCOVIA)               Inspection of mest imports.        -  Establish a health Inspection service.                February 1991
C. RICeo iport monopoly       Improve Manasgeent and pricing    -  Complete review on the pricing of                      May 109
(ONICOR)                policy.                               ordinary rice nd Its lpact on
social groups, the en vironmaet and the
domestic production of foodst#fts.
-    Revise price strucure of rice.                         June 1991
0. Public uttlity companies   Improve managment and prislon   -  Complete neo  udits.                                     Decebor 1991
(EEOC, OPT)               of services.                      -  Implement rehablitation plen and revise tariffs.    1992
E. Hotel company              Disengag  from hotel activities.  -  Obtain dectsion fro  shareholder, to                   may 1991
(CMOTEL)                                                        privatize hotels In Conotel Group.
-  Complete the assets valuation study of the            December 1991 c
hotels In Cometel Group.
-  Promote actively the sale of hotels                   Jun. 1992*s
-  Privlatize four hotels In Comotel Group.              1992-1993
F. Maritime transport Co.    Iprove managoemnt.                  -  Merge the two maritim  companies.                     end-1991
(ECOPOR, SONACOR)                                           -  Revise concession contracts with protve                March 1992
handitng and navigation firm.
-  Privatitze managmeat of tho Stater-owned boats.       Marcb 1992
G. Air Comores                Improve management and provislon   -  Undertake study on sorvices to ODts-Sas. with         September 191i
of services,                          a view to makirng it profitable or abandoning It.
-  Review Inter-islands air sorvices with a view         March 1992
to reducing air fares and Improving frequency.



AMIEX VI
COVOROS - POLICY MATRIX
VAROECOMIC REFORM AN  CAPACITy WBILDING CREDIT                                                         PJ8° 2
SECTOR                         OBJECTIVES                               MEASURES                                             TDIETABLE
III. Programing and monitoring  Improve the control of current and -   Reallocate resources In the 1991 budget In                 December 1999
of public oxpenditure        development expenditures.              favor of priority sectors, that is, social sectors
and economic management support services.
-   Agree on the revised 1991 budget and the               may 1991
1991-93 PIP.
-   Prepare timetable on implemetation of reform of        September 1991
budgetary procedures.
-   Prepare quarterly report on budget execution.          Beginning Juno 1991
-   Restructure the Treasury and oliminate                 June 1991
its banking activities.
-   Prepare bi-annual reports on PIP implementation.       Beginning June 1991
-   Agree on the 1992 budget and the 1992-94 PIP.          December 1991-*
IV. Measures to improve            Maintatn Comoros 's coMpetitiveness -  Redue/leliminate tax and the levy                       199i
competitiveness and           through alternative moeasures.         on export crops.
private incentives                                               -   Implementation of tho import tariff reform.            During program period
Reduce production costs.           -  Revise electricity tariffs.                             early 1992
-   Maintain a liberal wage policy.                        During program period
Liberalize trade.                  -   Liberalize export of vanilla.                          Mid-1990
-   Liberalize Imports of cement.                          1990
-   Liberalize meat Imports.                               January 1991
-   Liberalize import of higher-grade rice.                April 1991
Reduce administrative controls to  -   Agreement on TOR of the study to examine               April 1991
encourage private investment.          administrative controls and to prepare
an action plan to reduce them.
-  Abolish requirement of authorization                    April 1991
from minister in charge of economic
affairs to establish private enterprises.
-   Agreement on action plan to reduce administrative      February 1992**
contro I s.
-   Review the Investment Code.                            October 1991
-  Review the la.bor code.                                 1992-93
-   Establish private export promotion agencies.           1991-93
V.   Social and                    Protect the most vulnerable        -  Provide a 'safety net' through                           Implementation during
environmental aspects         groups, and those directly             reallocation of public resources                       Program period
affected by the necessary              to essential social services.
adjustment measures.               -  Provide transitional compensation                       Program period
for retrenched civil servants.
-  Prepare labor intensive program in road                 Implemented under highway
maintenance and feeder road construction.              maintenance project
financed by IDA



ANNEX VI
CO3OR0S - POLICY MATRIX
MACROECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT                                                         Page 3
SECTOR                          OBJECTIVES                                IEASURFS                                              TIYETABLE
-   Maintain the consumer prices of rice                    During program period
and kerosene at a low level.
-   Ensure adequate vanilla producer price.                 During program period
-  Promote multisectoral activities and                     During program period
Umini-projects' for women.
Reduce demographic pressures.       -   Support family planning program.                         Implemented under Health/
Population project
Protect the natural environment.   -   Undertake projects to protect soil, water and             During progtiam period
coastal areas.
-   Prohibit the use of sea sand for construction           During program period
and coral for lime production.
-   Undertake measures to protect forest and to prevent   During program period
marine pollution.
-   Improve environmental conditions in urban areas.        During program period
-   Improve management of solid and liquid waste.           During program period
-   Execute pilot projects for the development              During program period
of terraces to prevent soil erosion.
-   Implement the 10-year action program                    During program period
for soil conservation in Anjouan.
-   Reduce retael price of kerosene to                      1990
discourage use of fuelwood.
VI. Capacity Building               Improve administrative capacity of -   Review organizational chart and define                    Over 1991-93
(Investment Component)         the Ministry of Economy, Finance         clear responsibilities of each department.
Budget and Planning                 -   Improve budget and financial management.                 Over 1991-93
-   Strengthen the preparation and                          -----
monitoring of the PIP.
-   Improve debt management.                                ---- -
-   Reinforce the system of                                 ----I
monitoring public enterprises.
Il. Coordination asd Follow-up    Ensure successful implementation   -   Create a Follow-Up Committee supported by the               April 1991
of the adjustment program               Permanent Technical Committee.
-   Establish an independent board (with participation    December 1991
from private sector) to monitor competitive practice
in Imports.
*    Condition of effectiveness
*. Condition of second tranche release



40                                -O                                                                                               4e0
COMOROS
Mmlli  -                                                                                         COMORES
I  b9ni          GRANDE  COMORE                                                                        n  C c Capital
l4iI~~~~~~~~~~~aIe 4% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Copiae du PO"'
,1/    Koumni                                                                       -       Paed Roads
MORONl                                                                                                       o    G
'.>_ 4 aFoumbonil
KILOMETERS '           I?
-12° .X91 . ,0 .< * .;  q   .                                      e M                                         0        10        20        30       40             120
Ou,;"'atit +
MUTSAMUOV
MOHELt                                                            DmX  o
(o%1o. M9ONI
W53aanani                                    MRemlnl
C4-NI aj                                       ANJOUAN
CANZONVI & OU6VNEFOU 1I
43P
- ntmotiaioml Bouindarie
FrontiL',s .nfer_a_ onai
TANZANIA                             -
IZAMBIIN   _     COMOROS              I
MAVOTTE            ~~DZAOUDZJ
5 z *64¢t || ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAYOTTE                                                                                            FR
ZAMBABWE ,
z 
F  .R tn  ix   ' ~-130                      _           =                                                                          C
_ ;   'IJNfIAN  OCEAN                  440                                                                                                   I



