Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16349
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 2270-COM)
March 5, 1997
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
,performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Comorian Franc (CF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF1 to CF75.
Year                    Annual Averaze
(CF per I US$)
1985                       449
1990                       272
1991                       282
1992                       265
1993                       283
1994                       416
1995                       374
1996                       384
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF           African Development Fund
COMOTEL        Societe Comorienne de Tourisme el d Hotellerie
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IME            International Monetary Fund
MERCAP         Macro-Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit
PEs            Public enterprises
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program
SAC            Sructural Adjustment Credit
SAF            Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR            Special Drawings Rights
SOCOVIA        Societe Comorienne d Importatiotn de Viande
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Director         Mr. Michael Sarris
Manager          Mr. Emmanuel Akpa
Staff Member     Ms. Pisei Eap



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface   ................................................ , .,.i
Evaluation Summary .i
PART I: Project Implementation Review .1
I. Evaluation of Project Objectives .1
A. Justification and Objectives of the Credit    .I
B. Assessment of Project Objectives           .2
H. Achievement of Project Objectives            .       .        2
A. Policy-Based Component                 .2
B. Capacity Building Component              .4
C. Assessment of Macroeconomic Outcome           .5
III. Implementation Record and Factors Affecting the Project.    7
IV. Project Sustainability                 .8
V. Bank Perforance                        .9
VI. Borrower Performance                    .9
VII. Future Operation ........................                  10
VIII. Key Lessons Learned .........................                11
PART II: Basic Data and Statistical Information
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .13
Table 2: Related IDA Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements ...................            16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .17
Table 7: Project Costs .................                     18
table 8: Project Financing .......................,,.,.18
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..   20
Table 1: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   .     .20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions    .      ......... .............. 20
Annex I: Mission Aide-Memoire
Annex 2: Borrower Evaluation of Project Implementation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 2270-COM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Macro-Economic
Reform and Capacity Building Credit (MERCAP) in the Comoros, for which an IDA
credit for an amount of SDR6 million (US$8 million equivalent) was approved on June 13,
1991 and made effective on December 30, 1992. The credit was a hybrid operation, with
a policy-based component of SDR4.5 million divided in two equal tranches, and a capacity
building component of SDR1.5 million. The institutional capacity building effort was seen
to be crucial to the success of the country's reform program given the government's weak
capacity in economic management.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, as compared with the original
closing date of June 30, 1994. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully
disbursed in 1994. The second and final quick-disbursing tranche was released in
November 1994 and was fully disbursed in early 1995. Funds already commnitted under
the capacity building component are expected to be fully disbursed by end-April 1997.
The government was able to mobilize resources from other donors in support of the
adjustment program, including the IMF for a three-year SAF arrangement in the amount
of SDR3.15 million, the African Development Bank (UAF13 mnillion), the European Union
(ECU5 million), UNDP (US$1 million), and France (FF73 million). The total financing
package, excluding IMF SAF arrangement, amounted to approximately US$ 47 million.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Pisei Eap, task manager (AFTM3) and reviewed by
Mr. Michael Sarris, Country Director (AFC08), and Mr. Emmanuel Akpa, Acting
Technical Manager (AFTM3). Mr. Christos Kostopoulos, economist (AFTM3) and Ms.
Manorama Gotur (AFC08) contributed to the preparation of this ICR. The Borrower
prepared the evaluation of MERCAP implementation as attached in Annex 2. This ICR
was prepared following initial discussions with the government at the Annual Meetings in
October 1996 and further discussions during the Bank's completion mission in November
1996. The report is based on the Memorandum of the President for MERCAP, the
Development Credit Agreement of July 3, 1991, credit supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and
discussions with the Borrower during the completion mission. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the completion mission's
aide-memoire, preparing own valuation of the project's execution and commenting on the
draft ICR.






ii
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
The Macro-Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit (MERCAP) was to
support the first phase of the government's adjustment program, launched in early 1991.
The program's broad objective was to lay the foundation for economic growth by
improving the enabling environment for private sector activity while streamlining the
public sector and restoring financial stability. MERCAP sought to address these urgent
issues through support for an appropriate macroeconomic framework, and measures to: (i)
reform the civil service; (ii) withdraw the State from productive and commercial activities,
and improve the financial health of the remaining public enterprises (PEs); (iii) establish a
process of public expenditure programming and ensure a '<afety net" of social
expenditure; (iv) improve the incentives framework for private investment; and (v)
develop local institutional capacity in economic management.
The targeted objectives were optimistic but achievable, provided that
implementation was vigorous and timely. The goals of the capacity building component
were consistent with the need to strengthen capacity in economic management. MERCAP
also fit well with other Bank projects ongoing at the time (supporting human resource
development, small enterprise development, and infrastructure maintenance).
Implementation Experience and Results
Overall project objectives were only partially met and implementation of the
program was uneven. Several key actions were taken (Table 1) but, in the absence of
appropriate follow-through, failed to produce the desired outcomes. The civil service and
military were downsized, indeed in excess of target; the wage bill has stayed high,
however, due to an errant salary increase and hiring of new teachers. Privatization of
agreed PEs was completed, but remaining parastatals continue to be poorly managed.
Public finances have remained weak, reflecting a lack of sustained commitment to improve
fiscal revenues and control current expenditures while ensuring a social safety net.
Progress on trade liberalization and regulatory reforms, while good, was likely offset by
political instability and a weak judicial system, in drawing private sector response. The
capacity building component was well implemented but yields few sustainable results,
given frequent staff changes and poor motivation tied to delayed salary payments.
The credit's weak impact is reflected in the shortfall, relative to target, of key
measures of economic performance (Table 2). Solid improvement in 1993 was short-
lived, with renewed deterioration in 1994-96. Real GDP declined, instead of an expected
increase of 3 percent; public finances deteriorated, with civil service salary arrears
accumulated to 10 months and external arrears at US$43 million by end-1996, compared
to a target of zero; and social sector allocations were executed at only about 30 percent of
budget. The devaluation of the Comorian franc in 1994 by 33 percent in foreign currency
terms provided the basis for improved competitiveness; the economic response to the
devaluation, however, has been limnited largely to gains in tourism.



iii
The poor economic outcome reflected the fragile environment facing the Comoros
during the implementation of MERCAP. The political situation was unstable, with several
coup attempts and frequent changes in government that adversely affected the capacity to
deliver agreed reforms and sustained commitment to improve public finance. Poor
governance, combined with a weak judicial system, also deterred potential private
investors in spite of efforts to streamline administrative procedures for business creation.
Renewed public finance difficulties in 1994-96 show that, without vigorous
implementation of comprehensive reforms, progress cannot take hold.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank responded promptly to the government's request for adjustment
support. It closely monitored performance of agreed economic indicators and withheld
tranche releases until all conditions were met, prompting the government to take several
unpopular but crucially needed measures. For its part, the Borrower was unevenly
committed to reform, and the program went off-track twice during implementation.
Although the authorities completed several agreed measures, program implementation
suffered from slippages, including a 15-month delay in effectiveness, and was adversely
affected by: (i) political instability; (ii) strong private interests that undermined sound
policy decisions; and (iii) inter-ministry rivalries which, together with poor public
expenditure controls, hindered the sound use of public resources. Budget decisions often
favored payments for missions abroad at the expense of social expenditures and salary
payments to civil servants, which left them unmotivated to implement reform measures.
Outlook For The Future
The Comoros has unrealized potential in agriculture and tourism, and can -- and
should -- do better. Without sustained effort to improve economic management and
governance, the country faces a steady decline in real per-capita incomes. In view of these
challenges, the government has decided to deepen its reform strategy in the context of a
second structural adjustment program, proposed to be financed by the Bank (SAC) and
Fund (ESAF).  Areas for further reforms include strengthening fiscal policy and
rationalizing public expenditure, completing PE privatization, and strengthening the legal
system and opening up the country to promote private investment. The proposed SAC is
under preparation and efforts will be made to ensure that: (i) lessons from MERCAP have
been taken into account, in particular full program ownership; and (ii) up-front actions are
completed. The SAC is predicated on an agreement with the IMF on an ESAF.
Lessons Learned
Some key lessons can be drawn from the MERCAP experience:
* Successful adjustment is possible only when there is committment, political stability and
full program ownership.
* Adjustment lending based on up-front actions is likely to lead to more lasting results
than financing on the basis of measures promised for subsequent implementation.
* A hybrid operation mixing components with different objectives and disbursement
patterns -- quick-disbursing support versus capacity building -- leads to delays and
confusion of implementation responsibilities.



iv
Table 1: MERCAP SUMMARY
Objectives                Key Actions Completed                             Results/Outcome
Streamline Civil     * Cut size of Civil Service by 35%  in 1994  Wages: 9.4% of GDP in 1996 against target of 7.8%;
Service                (22%  targeted) but went down to 27%  in  (1990 was 1O%)
1996 and military by 33%
Withdraw State from    * Reduced parastatal assets by 1/4 (as targeted)   * Management of remaining PEs (utilities) did not
productive economic   * Privatized hotels, divested commercial and    improve
activity               non-utility services (as targeted)
* Established uniform accounting system     * Uniform accounting system not used by all PEs
Establish expenditure  * Improved Budget preparation / monitoring  * Poor expenditure controls
management process,                                               * Social expenditures only at 1/3 budget allocation
ensure "Safety net"    * Household consumption survey             * Survey: basis for poverty reduction strategy
Improve incentives    * Liberalized  external trade: tariff reform,  * Slow  private  sector response  in  productive
framework              reduction of export taxes, elimination of price   investment (growth in private investment of 7.5%
controls on all but key commodities ();     is believed to be mostly housing-related).
* Devalued Comorian Franc (*)
* Simplified administrative procedures for
business creation.
Develop local         * Technical  support/on-the-job  training  in  * Poor capacity building results due to frequent
institution capacity   macro-economic management                    changes in staff, poorly motivated civil servants
* Full ownership of PIP preparation and * Plan assumes full ownership of PIP preparation;
improved PIP quality                        PIP contained no oversized project
* External debt computerized                * Debt management still weak due to poor demand
from decision makers.
* Technical support to Privatization Committee   * Trained staff on Privatization Committee replaced
(*) Not included in original program.
Table 2. MACRO-ECONOMIC OUTCOME
FIRST PFP (1991-93)        SECOND PFP (1994-96)        CREDIT LIFE (1991-96)
Annual Average              Annual Average              Annual Average
I~ -
KEY INDICATORS                 TARGET       OUTCOME        TARGET       OUTCOME         TARGET       OUTCOME
Real GDP (%/ chnge)            3.1           2.8           2.9          -1.2           3.0            0.8
Budget revenue (% GDP)        17.5          14.5          17.8          13.1           17.6          13.8
Budgetexpendlture(% GDP)      16.1          18.1          17.1          17.4           16.6          17.8
ohv Wage bfl               8.0           9.1           8.1           8.8           8.0            9.0
Capital & other expend. (% GDP)   19.8      12.6          16.9          13.9           18.3          13.2
Overal budget defclt((% GDP)   -18.4       -16.2          -16.2        -18.2          -17.3         -17.2
Current Account. Balance  of  -22.5        -16.6          -17.4        -19.8          -20.0         -18.2
BOP (% GDP)
_                     -  ._



I



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 2270-COM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
I. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. Justification and Objectives of the Credit
1.    Overview and Justification. The Comoros is a predominantly rural economy
that has severe human, institutional and natural resource constraints and relies heavily on
external assistance. Following independence in 1975, the economy grew by an annual
average of 6 percent, fueled by ambitious but low-return public investment. This pace
could not be sustained, and real GDP growth dropped to an annual average of 1.4 percent
during 1985-89. Budget deficits (before grants) widened to an average of 24 percent of
GDP in 1985-89, and the debt service ratio averaged 25 percent. As a result, the
government faced chronic liquidity problems, causing long delays in meeting the civil
service payroll and accumulation of domestic and external debt arrears, which reached $40
million and $44 million, respectively, by end- 1990.
2.    Poor economic performance was the combined result of structural and policy
problems: (i) a weak human capital base and high population growth of 2.7 percent a year;
(ii) unfavorable terms of trade due to the overvalued Comorian franc; (iii) a narrow export
base, dependent on three commodities (vanilla, cloves and perfume essence) facing volatile
world demand; (iv) weak macro-economic management, coupled with a bloated civil
service and state intervention in several commercial activities; and (v) an unfavorable
private sector environment.  Against this background, the government launched an
adjustment program in 1991 and requested support from the Bank and the IMF. In
response, the Bank Board approved in June 1991 a Macro-economic Reform and Capacity
Building Credit (MERCAP) of SDR6 million to the Comoros.
3.    Objectives. The objectives of the program as described in the Policy Framework
Paper for 1991-93 were to lay the foundation for economic growth by improving the
enabling environment for private sector activities, streamlining the public sector and
restoring financial stability to the country. Specifically, MERCAP was designed to
support policy measures to: (i) streamline the civil service; (ii) withdraw the State from
productive and commercial activities, and improve the financial health of the remaining
public enterprises; (iii) establish a process of public expenditure programming and ensure a
'<afety net" of social expenditure; (iv) improve the incentives framework for private
investment; and (v) develop local institutional capacity in economic management, i.e.,
capacity to define and implement economic policy and to plan, monitor, and control public
expenditures.



2
4.    These objectives were expressed in specific targets as follows: (i) increase real
GDP growth from 2.5 percent in 1990 to 3.5 percent in 1993 and 4.4 percent in 1996; (ii)
reduce the overall budget deficit to 16.9 percent of GDP in 1993 and 16.1 percent by
1996, in particular the wage bill from 10 percent of GDP in 1990 to 7.6 percent in 1993
and 7.8 percent by 1996; and (iii) eliminate domestic and external payment arrears.
Because exchange rate adjustments were not expected under the initial program due to the
country's membership in the Franc zone, gains in external competitiveness were sought
through keeping down inflation, reducing production costs and improving productivity.
Thus, the program called for a prudent monetary policy to hold the annual inflation rate
below 4 percent, and for internal adjustments to keep wages low and enhance labor skills.
B. Assessment of the Objectives
5.    The objectives targeted under the program were optimistic but achievable,
provided that the agreed measures were implemented vigorously and in a timely manner.
On the capacity building component, the goals were consistent with the country's needs to
strengthen its capacity in economic management, macroeconomic analysis, and the
preparation and monitoring of the budget and the public investment program. MERCAP
also fit well with the Bank's investment projects implemented during the credit's life,
which supported the government's objectives in human resource development, small
enterprise development, and infrastructure maintenance.
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The overall project objectives were only partially met and the macroeconomic
outcome was generally disappointing. Strong areas of performance comprised trade
liberalization, regulatory reform and privatization of agreed public enterprises and
activities handled by certain state-owned companies. Performance on public finance
reforms was weak, reflecting lack of sustained commitment to improve fiscal revenues and
control current expenditures. Following a short-lived improvement in the economic and
financial situation in 1993, real GDP declined by about an annual average of 1.2 percent in
1994-96 instead of accelerated growth expected in the program, the overall budget deficit
worsened, and the external current account deficit remained large. Despite a larger
reduction in the size of the civil service than that targeted, the wage bill was cut only to
9.4 percent of GDP in 1996 as compared to a program target of 7.8 percent. External and
domestic arrears began to accumulate again after 1993, returning to their level in 1990.
Although the capacity building component progressed satisfactorily, results were less than
expected because of frequent changes in staff and lack of motivation resulting from long
delays in salary payments of the civil service. Achievement of project objectives by main
project components is highlighted below.
A. Policy-Based Component
7.    Civil Service Reform. The objectives were to streamline the bloated civil service,
to help ensure a smaller and more efficient administration and trim the wage bill, a crucial
step for fiscal sustainability.  The government undertook a civil service census,
computerized the personnel data file and completed the preparation of an action plan for



3
civil service reform, including organizational structure and a staff reduction plan.
However, the action plan was completed 15 months behind schedule, resulting in delayed
effectiveness of the credit. By the end of 1994, the government had reduced the size of
the civil service by 35 percent -- compared to a target of 22 percent -- through voluntary
departures and elinination of irregularities (fictitious staff). In parallel, the government
reduced the size of military personnel by one-third. Civil service reform, combined with
disciplinary measures to cut civil servant allowances and other fringe benefits, reduced the
wage bill from 10 percent of GDP in 1991 to 7.7 percent in 1993. However, these
improvements were short-lived and the wage bill increased to 8.9 percent of GDP in 1995
and 9.4 percent in 1996. The government had decided to grant a premature salary
increase following the January 1994 devaluation and to recruit new teachers to meet the
1995-96 school-year requirements before completing the implementation of the
organizational structure of the civil service reform. The objective of streamlining the civil
service was, therefore, partially met: because of new recruits in 1995-96, the size of civil
service was cut only by 27 percent by the end of 1996 and the wage bill remained larger
than the agreed target of 7.8 percent of GDP.
8.    Public Enterprise Reform.  The main objectives were to disengage, albeit
gradually, the State from productive, service and commercial activities that could best be
handled by the private sector, and to improve the efficiency of the remaining public
enterprises by strengthening their management, implementing a personnel reduction plan
and adopting a uniform  accounting system.  Under the program, the government
privatized three hotels and closed one, liquidated the meat-importing monopoly
(SOCOVIA), sold the gas stations and the gas bottling plant owned by the petroleum
importing monopoly, and disengaged from car rental and shuttle bus services. These
actions reduced the size of the parastatal sector, in terms of assets, by about one-fourth as
agreed. A uniform accounting system was established but its implementation at the
enterprise level was slow. Cross-debts were not eliminated, as called for in the program,
given continued financial difficulties and inefficient management of the enterprises.
Although public enterprises were privatized as agreed, the financial health of the remaining
PEs (largely utilities) did not improve as expected because of continued political
interference in their management.
9.    Programming and Monitoring of Public Expenditure. The objectives were to
establish control over the expenditure process, prepare a sound public investment
program, and improve the efficiency of current and development expenditure while
protecting basic social services and maintaining existing infrastructure. The capacity
building component of MERCAP contributed to improve the institutional capacity needed
to implement measures under this component (see para. 13). In spite of progress in
budget preparation and monitoring, however, expenditure control remained weak.
Payments of salaries and missions abroad continued to have priorities over expenditures
for goods and services in the social sectors, which were executed at only about one-third
of the allocation in the budget.
10.   Measures to Improve Competitiveness and Private Sector Incentives. The
objectives were to promote private sector-led growth by creating an environment
conducive to private sector development and reducing the cost of doing business in the
Comoros. The government liberalized external trade by allowing small producers to enter



4
the vanilla export market, previously limited to four main exporters, and by abolishing the
state monopoly of imports of cement, tobacco, higher grade rice, and meat. A tariff
reform was adopted in 1993 and the customs tariff structure was simplified: the number of
rates was reduced from 42 to 4; the maximum rate was lowered from 300 percent to 60
percent; and the import duty was unified at 10 percent. The government also implemented
an automated system of customs management procedures, and introduced a specific tax
for petroleum products and rice. The export tax on cloves and copra was eliminated and
that on vanilla was reduced by half. In January 1994, the Government devalued the
Comorian franc by 33 percent in foreign currency terms (as compared with 50 percent for
the rest of the Franc zone countries); this measure was not expected in the initial program.
The government also eliminated price controls on all but a few essential commodities. To
improve the business environment, the government also: (i) completed a review of the
legal and regulatory framework for private investment; (ii) created a center to provide
technical support to small businesses; (iii) simplified administrative procedures for business
creation and established a "one stop shop"; and (iv) adopted a new investment code, with
focus on simplification of investment procedures and provision of investment security.
11.   Although these measures helped improve the business environment, the private
sector response with productive investment has been slow, due primarily to political
instability and a weak judicial system. Although private investment grew by an annual
average of 7.5 percent in real terms during 1991-96, most of the increase is believed to be
tied to housing. One positive result of trade liberalization has been the doubling of the
number of importers and exporters and increased competition, which has worked in favor
of consumers.
12.   Social Impact. On the social front, the government aimed to provide a "safety
net" by safeguarding expenditures in education and health while cutting overall
expenditures in the context of the adjustment efforts. However, because of weak public
expenditure controls and a shortfall in revenues due to inefficient customs administration,
social sector allocations for goods and services were executed at only about 30 percent.
To help mitigate the social impact of civil service reduction, compensation packages were
provided to those leaving the administration and technical support was given to small
entrepreneurs interested in creating businesses. In parallel, the government established
social funds to promote micro-project development at the community level and a number
of social infrastructure activities (construction of health posts and small bridges as well as
rehabilitation of classrooms), which were completed with high community participation.
B. Capacity Building Component
13.  Implementation of the capacity building component of MERCAP progressed
satisfactorily but results were less than expected mainly because of frequent changes in
staff and lack of motivation resulting from delays in salary payments to civil servants.
Technical support and on-the-job training were provided to various departments in the
Ministry of Finance and the Planning Directorate, in particular in macroeconomic
management. Short-term foreign consultants were used in these activities with a focus on
transfer of knowledge to local counterparts. Consequently, there has been improvement in
budget preparation and monitoring with the establishment of a computerized system of
monthly reporting and follow-up on budget execution.  As for public investment



5
programming, the Planning Directorate assumed full ownership in the preparation of the
rolling three-year PIP and the follow-up on its execution on a quarterly basis. In addition,
the quality of the PIP improved and low priority projects were eliminated from the
program. However, the recent departure of the trained staff in the PIP unit hampered the
preparation of the 1997 PIP, and coordination with donors and technical ministries on
project implementation has been weak.
14.   Technical support and training were also provided in the preparation of national
accounts, debt management, treasury accounts management, and macroeconomic analysis
and forecasting. Whereas preparation of national accounts has remained weak because of
frequent staff turnover, treasury accounts management has improved with full
computerization of account transactions.  The external debt file has now  been
computerized but debt management has remained weak, mainly because of lack of demand
and interest from decision makers to use the debt management tool. Technical support for
macroeconomic analysis and forecasting was given to the national technical committee,
which has competently provided assistance to the ministerial committee in charge of
implementation of the adjustment program.
15.   The credit also financed a household consumption survey in 1995, which served as
a basis for the preparation of the government's poverty reduction strategy. Moreover,
technical support was provided to the privatization committee working on the
privatization of four key remaining public enterprises. This committee was able to
competently follow-up on the privatization process and prepared a seminar to inform
ministers on progress in the public enterprise reform and required next steps. However,
all the trained staff in this committee were completely replaced in September 1996 for
political reasons; the new committee expressed a need for further technical support, which
the credit could no longer provide.
C. Assessment of Macroeconomic Outcome
16.   The macroeconomic outcome was disappointing over the life of the credit,
notwithstanding a short-lived improvement in the economic and financial situation from
mid-1992 to end-1993. Soon after the credit was approved, the program went off-track
with severe slippage in meeting the financial targets and completing the action plan for
civil service reform. Real GDP in 1991 declined by 3 percent and the budget deficit
(before grant financing) widened to 18.8 percent of GDP from 16.2 percent in 1990, due
to the drop in revenue collection combined with rising expenditures. To redress the
situation, the government appointed in mid- 1992 a new management team, which took
strong corrective measures to put the program back on track, including reduction of civil
service salaries by 20-30 percent depending on the salary level, strengthening tax
collection, and acceleration in public enterprise reforms and trade liberalization. The
economy recovered, with real GDP growing at 7.7 percent in 1992 and 3.8 percent in 1993,
much higher than expected. The budget deficit before grants fell to a record low of 11
percent of GDP in 1993; this allowed the government to pay the salaries of civil servants
on time, compared with five to six months' delays in previous years. At the same time the
current account deficit of the balance of payments was reduced from 16.9 percent of GDP
in 1991 to 12.2 percent in 1993 due to a decline in imports and a recovery in exports and
private transfers. In response to the adjustment efforts, several donors, in particular the



6
Arab creditors who hold 41 percent of the Comoros' external debt, rescheduled most of
the arrears on more concessional terms following a donors' meeting in Jeddah in
November 1993.
Comoros - Selected Economic Indicators
1985-89   1990   1991   1992        1993       1994     1995   1996
(average)                                                       (est)
Income nd Prices (annual % chante)
Real GDP                            1.4        2.5   -3.0    7.7        3.8       -2.3     -2.3    1.0
o/w Agriculture                  3.7         2.8    1.6   -0.8        0.7       1.3       1.5    1.5
RealGDPpercapita                  -2.3        -0.4   -5.6    4.6        1.0       -5.1     -4.8   -1.7
GDP Deflator                       4.8         4.8    5.4   -6.8        9.2       7.9       7.0    2.6
Savinfs and investment (% GDP)
Gross Domestic Savings             0.2         0.9    2.9    2.3         0.0      -8.0     -7.9   -6.4
GrossDomesticlnvestrnent           3.9        19.7   20.3   22.4        16.7      16.9      17.1   15.8
Private Investinent, growth rate               4.7    3.2    5.9         23.2      -32.7    29.6   15.6
Central Government (% GDP)
Current Revenue                    13.7       17.1   13.9   16.0        13.7      13.3      13.1   12.8
Current Expenditures               31.6       27.1   26.0   22.7        20.9      24.1      25.0   20.7
o/w Wages and Salaries           9.6        10.0   10.3    9.3        7.7        8.2       8.9    9.4
Capital Expenditures and NL        6.4         6.2    6.7   11.9        3.9       11.6       6.6    5.8
Overall balance
Excluding Grants                 -24.3      -16.2  -18.8  -18.7    -11.1        -22.4    -18.5  -13.7
Including Grants                 -3.2       -1.1   -2.6   -11.4    -1.9         -13.0    -10.8  -6.7
Extenul Trade (% cln.e)
Exports                            30.6        0.8    1.5    0.3        1.7        1.5      0.5    -1.5
Imports                            1.6         1.3    1.0    1.2        1.0        1.0      1.2    -1.0
Balance of Payments (% GDP)
Trade Balance                      -10.0      -18.8  -17.4  -20.1    -16.7        -17.3    -19.0  -18.6
Currcnt Account Balance
Excluding Grants                 -27.8      -21.0  -16.9  -20.7    -12.2        -21.2    -21.1  -17.2
Including Grants                 -6.5       -8.7    -5.0  -13.4       -2.4      -10.3    -10.3   -8.3
External Debt
Debt Service Ratio                 25.4       14.6    8.0    6.2        4.7       5.8       4.8      4.6
Long Term Debt   GDP)               96          97     79      71        65        94        88      88
17.   However, these improvements were not sustained  and financial problems
resurfaced in 1994 following the devaluation of the Comorian Franc. Under pressure from
the labor union, government granted wage increases, which raised the wage bill by 13
percent in 1994 and 12 percent in 1995. This, combined with major shortfalls in fiscal
revenues, caused the budget deficit before grants to widen to 22.4 percent of GDP in 1994
and 18.5 percent in 1995. By end-1995, salary arrears for civil servants accumulated up to
six months and external arrears again reached $36 million. The economy's response to the
devaluation was slow. Real GDP declined by 2.3 percent a year in 1994-95, due mainly to
sluggish economic activity in trade and agriculture. Export performance for traditional
commodities was poor because of the depressed world market for vanilla and cloves,
leading the external current account deficit to deteriorate to about 21 percent of GDP in 1994
and 1995. A positive aspect of the devaluation was strongly felt in the tourism sector:



7
tourist arrivals rose by over 20 percent in 1994, before a slowdown following the coup in
September 1995. The inflation rate increased by some 20 percent in 1994 but stabilized at
about 7 percent in 1995 owing to measures taken to contain the inflationary impact of the
devaluation, i.e., restraining monetary growth and raising interest rates.
18.  In 1996, GDP is estimated to have grown by about 1 percent, as economic
activities were not fully recovered following the March Presidential elections.
Nevertheless, new private investments were made in small manufacturing activities such as
soft drinks, and processing of new varieties of perfume essences and extracts. Public
finance performance continued to be poor as budget revenue fell short by 15 percent from
the target and wage bill increased to 9.4 percent of GDP. This led to a drastic cut in
priority expenditures on goods and services and transfers in the social sectors. By end-
1996, salary arrears for civil servants accumulated to nine months and external arrears
rose to $43 million. To redress the situation and to consolidate some gains from the first
adjustment program as well as the 1994 devaluation, the authorities are implementing a
second round of economic reforms aimed at accelerating sustained GDP per capita growth
and alleviating poverty. The program focuses on: achieving macroeconomic stability and
enhancing supply response through improved public sector management; enhanced private
sector activity (partly through the Cross-Border Initiative); and selected measures in key
sectors to diversify the economy and create employment opportunities.  Concrete
measures have been taken to increase budget revenues and improve the efficiency of
public enterprises: a pre-shipment inspection and verification company has been working
in the Comoros to strengthen customs administration, and privatization of four key public
enterprises is under way.
M. ]IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
19.   To ensure good monitoring of program implementation, MERCAP specified
conditions spread over two tranches and emphasized key reform areas in public finance,
civil service and the parastatal sector. The two conditions for first tranche release
included the approval of the AfDF credit by the Board of the African Development Bank
and the completion of an action plan for civil service reform acceptable to IDA. The five
specific conditions for second tranche release comprised: (i) the privatization (or
dissolution) of the meat-importing monopoly; (ii) completion of a valuation of the four
hotels owned by Comotel and a realistic offer to sell them; (iii) the enactment of the 1994
budget and the 1994-96 PIP; (iv) adequate progress in the implementation of the civil
service reform action plan; and (v) preparation of an action plan, including a timetable for
its implementation, to reduce the regulatory obstacles to private sector activities.
20.   The implementation of the program was uneven. As noted in para. 16, the
program went off-track at the beginning of the program period due primarily to the
volatile political environment, which was marked by frequent cabinet reshuffles (including
the resignation of the management team that had negotiated MERCAP) and several
attempted coups. The Bank withheld the effectiveness of MERCAP pending a correction
of the slippage in the macro-economic framework, especially the rapidly rising wage bill.
The pace of implementation accelerated after a new reform-minded management team was



8
appointed in mid-1992. Subsequently, the authorities took a series of corrective actions
and succeeded in reversing the trend of rising expenditures. These actions included a
drastic cut in the wage bill, the acceleration of civil service reform, the privatization of
public enterprises as agreed in the program, and the liberalization of external trade. Based
on this progress, the Bank declared MERCAP effective in December 1992 and the first
tranche was released, fifteen months after the expected date.
21.   The Comorian authorities took reform one step further by devaluing the Comorian
Franc in January 1994 and agreed with the Bank/IMF on a macroeconomic program as
described in a second PFP covering 1994-96. The IMF Board approved a second-year
SAF program on March 11, 1994 and the Bank released the second tranche of MERCAP
in November 1994 when all specific conditions were met. These funds were released
despite the shortfall in macroeconomic outcomes relative to target, in order to help the
Comoros meet urgent financial needs in support of reform following the devaluation. It
was expected that the situation would improve, given that the authorities (i) were
implementing new measures agreed with the Bank/IMF to strengthen the fiscal position;
and (ii) had completed the 35 percent reduction in the size of the civil service. However,
the new economic management team appointed in January 1994 was unsuccessful and the
financial targets agreed under the second PFP were not met. The three-year SAF program
expired and the remaining US$ 1.1 million of the SAF lapsed during the second half of
1995.
22.   Because of delays in implementation, the credit's closing date of June 30, 1994
was extended twice, for a total period of two and a half years. The first extension was
given to allow time for meeting the conditions for second tranche release, and the second
extension was to enable use of the remaining funds to build institutional capacity for more
durable reforms. However, implementation of the credit was interrupted as a result of the
suspensions of IDA disbursements to the Comoros in September-November 1995 and in
July-November 1996 following the non-payment of arrears. The credit was finally closed
on December 31, 1996.
23.   In sum, the poor economic outcome reflected the fragile environment facing the
Comoros. During implementation, the political situation was unstable, with several coup
attempts and frequent changes in government; this instability adversely affected both the
capacity to deliver the agreed reforms as well as the commitment to improve public
finances. Poor governance and a weak judicial system are also likely to have deterred
potential private investors, notwithstanding progress in streamlining administrative
procedures for business creation.
IV. PROJECT SUSTAINABILlTY
24.   Overall sustainability is rated unlikely insofar as progress made was undermined by
political and financial instability, although reforms to trim the public sector and liberalize
trade should enhance private sector activity once investor confidence returns. Renewed
public finance difficulties in 1994-96 show that the Comoros needs to vigorously
implement more comprehensive reforms to make progress sustainable. Notwithstanding



9
advances made in public expenditure management, the economy's financial problems
resurfaced mainly because of the structural weakness in tax and customs administration
and lack of strong commitment from the government to control current expenditures and
improve fiscal performance by reducing customs fraud and systematically collecting taxes
from powerful businessmen who have thus far escaped the tax net. Financial stability is
key to improving conditions for accelerated economic growth and restoring private sector
confidence in the economy. It is therefore critical that the government give highest
priority to strengthening customs administration, tightening expenditure control, and
reforming the regulatory framework as well as improving the judicial system to promote
private sector development. One factor benefiting sustainability is that the need for
sustained fiscal restraint, as well as the benefits of limiting the role of the state while
expanding the opportunities for private sector-led growth, are now better and more widely
understood than ever before.
25.   In parallel, sustained efforts are needed to build institutional capacity, in particular
in economic management, for more durable and solid reforms. In this context, trained
staff should be encouraged to stay in their field of expertise for a minimum number of
years and frequent changes in staff should be avoided. The government has recently
completed an assessment of national institutional capacity, and an action plan to
strengthen such capacity is under preparation.
V. BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   The Bank responded promptly to the government's request for support in its
adjustment program and collaborated closely with Comoros' other main donors in helping
the authorities prepare and implement needed reforms as well as mobilize necessary
resources. The operation was prepared in December 1990 and presented for Board
consideration in six months. Total time spent on supervision (including effectiveness)
amounted to 104 staff weeks, with regular staff visits averaging twice a year. The Bank
closely monitored agreed economic indicators and collaborated with the authorities on
formulating corrective measures to put the program back on track and accelerate the pace
of reforms. In support of program objectives, the Bank withheld tranche releases until all
conditions were satisfactorily met; this helped the government take several unpopular but
crucial measures to redress the situation and move the program forward. The credit's
President Report did identify political risks and the risk of backtracking, expected to be
addressed through the front-loading of key measures. However, MERCAP could have
been a more effective instrument for reform if it had been designed to finance completed
reforms rather than mutually agreed measures for future implementation.
VI. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   On the positive side, the authorities completed -- albeit with long delays -- several
agreed measures under the credit, including the reduction in the size of the civil service,
the privatization of the state-owned enterprises, and trade liberalization. The authorities
responded well to recommendations by the supervision missions and collaborated with the
Bank to seek solutions when the program went off-track (twice), including cutting salaries



10
of civil servants up to 30 percent in 1992-93. Audits were done annually by a reputable
accounting firm and reports were sent to IDA in a timely manner. Progress reports on the
adjustment program were prepared on a quarterly basis by the authorities throughout the
implementation period of MERCAP.
28.   However, the level of commitment to reforms was uneven, adversely affected by:
political instability during the life of the credit; strong private interests that undermined
sound policy decisions; and inter-ministry rivalries for the use of public resources. Lack of
political commitment was reflected in: (i) the 15-month delay in completing the Civil
Service Action Plan; (ii) poor debt management entailing frequent suspensions in
disbursements from many creditors; and (iii) government interference in PE management.
Lack of public expenditure controls led to misuse of public resources as budget decisions
often favored payments for missions abroad at the expense of expenditures for social
goods and services, while delayed salary payments to civil servants left them unmotivated
to implement reform measures. In addition, lack of political stability discouraged investors
and disrupted institutional continuity, thus weakening the sustainability of reforms.
VII. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   A continuation of past economic trends would be unfortunate, as it would lead to a
steady decline in real per-capita incomes and a deterioration in the welfare of the
population. The Comoros should be doing better, given the unrealized economic potential
of the country in agriculture and tourism, although it has several structural constraints that
will take time to be removed. With sustained efforts to improve economic management
and governance, including implementing sound economic policies in support of private
sector-led growth, the Comoros could achieve its development potential and accelerate
sustained economic growth. Areas for further reforms include: strong fiscal policy and
rationalization of public spending while safeguarding social expenditures; completion of
the privatization of public enterprises to improve enterprise efficiency and reduce
production costs for business; enhancement of private sector investment, to generate
employment opportunities, by strengthening the legal/judicial system and opening up the
country to the region and the world partly through the Cross-Border Initiative. In view of
the remaining challenges, the government decided in August 1996 to deepen its reform
strategy in the parastatal sector through privatization of all the remaining enterprises, and
to take firm disciplinary action to cut low-priority expenditures and effectively execute the
budget. These actions are to be taken in the context of a second structural adjustment
program, for which the government is seeking the support of the Bank and Fund under an
IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and an IIMF ESAF arrangement.
30.   A proposed SAC is under preparation in support of the government's second
structural program. Efforts will be made to ensure that lessons learned from MERCAP
(see para. 31) are taken into account: (i) the adjustment program has been fully
internalized with full ownership of the program on the part of authorities and civil society;
and (ii) critical adjustment measures have been adopted and concrete actions taken to
strengthen revenue collection, tighten expenditure control, and privatize key public
enterprises. These measures would yield significant improvement especially in public
finances. The SAC has been designed as a pure balance-of-payments support operation



11
that would provide financing on the basis of a good track record of implementation. The
political situation appears currently more stable and conducive to successful
implementation of an adjustment program. The SAC is predicated on an agreement with
the IMF on an ESAF arrangement.
VIII. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   Four lessons can be drawn from the MERCAP experience:
* First, successful adjustment is possible only if there is commitment, political stability
and full program ownership. Appropriate preparatory work therefore includes (a) a
realistic assessment of the prospects for political stability and (b) efforts to promote
ownership. The program of economic reforms should be elaborated on the basis of
several rounds of discussions held with various segments of the civil society through a
systematic client consultation approach; this would build consensus for reform, making
the program less vulnerable to changes in leadership.
* Second, adjustment support for completed actions assures more positive results than
up-front financing of mutually agreed measures for subsequent implementation.
Agreed measures that are not implemented further undermine country credibility and
result in a great deal of frustration for the Borrower and the Bank, with heavy
supervisory and administrative burdens stemming from the program being off-track
and delays in tranche release.
* Third, internal adjustment alone is not sufficient where there has been significant
erosion of a country's international competitiveness. It took the devaluation of
January 1994 to help correct the overvaluation and improve the Comoros' external
competitiveness.
* Fourth, a hybrid operation combining two components with dissimilar disbursement
patterns -- quick-disbursing balance of payments support versus a capacity building
component requiring more time for completion -- is unwise. In the case of MERCAP,
the last tranche of balance of payments support component was released in November
1994, but the credit could not be closed until two years later because of the slow
nature of the institutional capacity building activities.






12
Part II
Basic Data and Statistical Information






13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                      ] E  5
Sector Policies                                    9
Financial Objectives                               E]               9 E
Institutional Development           5               9               5             5
Physical Objectives                 5              [                              9
Poverty Reduction                   5               9                             5
Gender Issues                      E               Cl              E              0
Other Social Objectives                             9 E                           5
Environmental Objectives            5               0              E              E
Public Sector Management            a               0                ]             a
Private Sector Development          Q               0              E               
Other (specify)                     5              E               o              9
B. Project SustainabilitV          Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
-         ~~(v/)                    V/)                      (1)
C. Bank Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory              Deficient
(1)                     (1)                      (V)
Identification                    E                        0                       E
Preparation Assistance            E                        0                       E
Appraisal                          5                       0                       E
Supervision                        5                       0                       E



14
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactory              Satisfactory        Deficient
(V")           (/)                 (/)
Preparation                                                 [El                       E
Implementation                                               El                       []
Covenant Compliance                  Q                        8                        D
Operation (if applicable)           []                       [                        [l
Hiehl
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactorv
0/                 09) 0/                        /



15
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit title             Purpose            Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations                                    None
Following operations
1. SAC                 Support government's            FY 98           Under preparation
second structural
adjustment program to
accelerate growth and
reduce poverty
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                    December 1990        December 1990
Initiating Memorandum (OC meeting)             March 1991           March 8, 1991
Appraisal                                      March 1991           March 12, 1991
Negotiations                                   April 1991           April 22-25, 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)   April 1991           April 1991
Board Presentation                             June 13, 1991        June 13, 1991
Signing                                        July 3, 1991         July 3, 1991
Effectiveness                                   September 30, 1991    December 30, 1992
First Tranche Release (if applicable)           September 30, 1991    December 30, 1992
Midterm review (if applicable)                 N/A                  N/A
Second Tranche Release                         September 1992       November 1994
Project Completion (closing date)              June 30, 1994        December 31, 1996
Credit Closing (accounts closing date)         June 30, 1994        April 30, 1997



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92    FY93         FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal Estimate                    4.0       7.7        8.0          -         -        -
Actual                                 0        2.2        2.4        7.7        8.3      8.7
Actual as % of Estimate                0        29%        30%          -         -
Date of Final Disbursement                                                               04/30/97
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L  Key Implementation Indicators              Estimated                             Actual
in SARI President's Report (1st   1993        1995     1996         1993         1995       1996
PFP)
1. GDP growth rate                      3.5       3.9        -            3.8         -          -
2. Budget revenue % GDP                17.5       17.8       -           13.7         -          -
3. Budget Expenditure % GDP            15.5       15.2       -           1 6.3        -          -
3. Wages and Salaries % GDP             7.6        7.5       -            7.7         -           -
4. Overall budget balance % GDP       -16.9      -16.2        -          - 11.1        -          -
5. Current acc. balance of BOP % GDP    - 23.0   - 22.1       -          - 12.2        -          -
IL Modified Indicators (2nd PFP)
1. GDP growth rate                     3.5        3.6          4.4        3.8         - 2.3     1.0
2. Budget revenue % GDP               17.5       17.6          17.0      13.7         13.1      12.8
3. Budget Expenditure % GDP           15.5       17.1         16.5       16.3         18.7      15.7
3. Wages and Salaries % GDP            7.6        8.1          7.8        7.7          8.9      9.4
4. Overall budgetbalance% GDP        - 16.9     - 15.6       - 16.1      - 11.1     - 18.5    -13.7
5. Current acc. balance of BOP % GDP    - 23.0  - 17.2       - 14.9      - 12.2     - 21.1    - 17.2



17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study          at Appraisal/Redefmed         Status      Impact of Study
1. Petroleum and Rice   Review pricing policy and   Completed  Implementation of new
Taxation and Pricing  simplify taxation of                   pricing policy for
petroleum and rice while                 petroleum and rice and
ensuring stable fiscal                   adoption of a unified tax
revenues.                                system which ensured
stable budget revenues and
protected the most
vulnerable social groups
by keeping price of
kerosene low.
2. Private Sector     Examine administrative  Completed        Based on findings and
Regulatory            controls with a view to                  recommendation of the
Environment           simplify and streamline                   study:
procedures for business                  - administrative procedures
creation.                                for the establishment of
private businesses were
streamlined.
- a "one-stop shop" was
created
- creation of a center to
provide technical
support to small
businesses.
- a new investment code
was adopted, with focus on
simplification of
investment procedures and
provision of investmnent
security.
3. Household          Obtain information on   Completed        Results of the survey have
consumption survey    incomes, composition of                  served as a basis for the
expenditures and poverty                 preparation of the
level.                                   government's poverty
reduction strategy
(underway).



18
Table 7: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
(US$M)              Estimate(US9M)
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Item             Costs    Costs          Costs   Costs
1. BOP support               43.0    43.0            43.0    43.0
2. TA support        0.2      3.0      3.2   0.2      3.0     3.2
3. Direct                     0.6      0.6            0.6     0.6
French TA
TOTAL          0.2     46.6    46.8   0.2    46.6    46.8
Table 8: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local     Foreign     Total       Local    Foreign     Total
Source                      Costs      Costs                  Costs     Costs
IDA                          0          8.0        8.0         0         8.0         8.0
African Development Fund     0         17.0        17.0        0         17.0       17.0
European Commission           0         7.0        7.0         0          7.0        7.0
UNDP                         0          1.0         1.0        0          1.0        1.0
FAC                           0        13.6        13.6        0         13.6       13.6
Government                   0.2        0          0.2        0.2         0          0.2
TOTAL                       0.2       46.6       46.8        0.2       46.6        46.8



19
Table 9: Status of Igal Covenants
Credit
Agreement   Present Status   Fulfillment              Description of Covenants               Comments
Section                        Date
Section 3.01   Complied with                 Borrower declares its comnnitment to the project
after delay                  objectives as set forth in schedule 2 to the Agreement.
Section 3.02 (a)  Complied with  semi-annually  Bo.rower and Association to exchange views on  Done on a regular
progress achieved in carrying out the program and    basis during
the actions specified in schedule 4 to the Agreement. supervision missions.
Section 3.02 (b)  Complied with  Every quarter  Borrower to flurnish reports on the progress achieved  The Technical
in carrying out the program.                  Committee prepared
quaterly report on
programn
implementation.
Section 3.03   Complied with                 Borrower to follow Bank guidelines on procurement
of the goods and consultants'services as set forth in
schedule 3 to the agreement.
Section 4.01   Complied with  Annual Audits  Financial covenants: Borrower to maintain records   Audits were
and adequate accounts of expenditures under the  unqualified
credit and to have the records and accounts audited   transmitted to the
by independent auditors.                      Bank on a timely
basis.
Section 6.01   Complied with  December 1992 Effectiveness conditions: (a) the ADF credit has been After 15 months
after delay                  approved by the Executive Directors of the African   delay, conditions for
Development Bank; and (b) the Borrower has    effectiveness were
prepared an action plan for civil service reform  met.
acceptable to the Association.
Schedule 4     Complied with  November 1994 Second tranche release conditions:             All of these five
after delay                                                                conditions were
(a) Socovia has been privatized or the Borrower has  satisfactorily met
legally dissolved SOCOVIA and initiated the   after two years
liquidation of its assets.                    delays. The second
tranche was released
(b) The borrower has carried out an evaluation to    in November 1994
determine the value of the four hotels owned by  despite the shortfall
COMOTEL and has made a realistic offer to sell such in macro-economic
hotels in at least three international reputable  outcomes relative to
publications.                                 targets, in order to
help the Comoros
(c) The Borrower has enacted a budget for 1994 and a meet urgent financial
public investment program for 1994-96, both   needs in support of
acceptable to the Association.                reform following the
January 1994
(d) The Borrower has made adequate progress in the  devaluation.
implementation of its civil service reform action plan
in accordance with its timetable. And,
(e) the Borrower has prepared an action plan,
including a timetable for its implementation, to
reduce regulatory obstacles to private sector activities,
acceptable to the Association.



20
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Operational Manual statements complied with.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                              Planned                   Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks        USS          Weeks         US$       Weeks        USS
_                                                __(O)     (000)                  (O)
Through Appraisal X                                                                                       8.2        21.6
Appraisal-Board'                                                                                         73.6      200.9
Board-Effectiveness I(includinueion)                    -            -            -            -         26.4        77.4
Supervision                                           63.2        184.3         74.3        229.5        77.4      221.3
Completion                                             9.0         20.5         10.0         22.7        10.0        29.0
TOTAL                                                                                                  195.6  550.2
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfornance Ratbig
Number                     SpeciaHzed      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/         of         Days In       Staff Sldlls     tatlon          ment          Types of
Project Cycle       Year        Persons       Field       Represented        Status       Objectives      Problerns
Through Appraisal      Oct-Nov 91    N/A       N/A           N/A
Appraisal through      March 91    5           70            Economists
Board Approval
Board Approval         Dec 91      4           30            Economists             _              _
through Effectiveness
Supervision (1)        May92       2           28            Economists            U               U           Slippage
Supervision (2)        Sept 92     2           25            Economists             U              U           Slippage
Supervision (3)        Mar/Apr 93    2         20            Economists             S              S
Supervision (4)        Jan/Feb 94   2          18            Economists             S              S
Supervision (5)        June94       1          10            Economist              S              S
Supervision (6)        Nov 95       1          15            Economnist             S              S
Supervision (7)        May96        1          15            Economist              S              S
Completion             Dec. 96      1          5             Economist             _ 
Planned and Revised figures not available.



ANNEX 1
MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE






Aide-Memoire de la Mission de la Banque Mondiale
Evaluation de Fin d'Execution du Credit MERCAP (Credit No. 2270-COM)
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composante de Monsieur Christos Kostopoulos a
sejourne a Moroni du I au 4 decembre 1996 afin de mener avec les autorites une evaluation de fin
d'execution du Credit pour la Reforme macroeconomique et du renforcement des capacites
(MERCAP). Dans ce cadre, la mission a passe en revue avec les autorites (i) le degre de
r6alisation des objectifs du credit et sa mise en oeuvre; (ii) la performance de la Banque et
l'emprunteur; (iii) 1'experience tiree de l'execution du cr6dit; et (iv) les donnees necessaires pour
finaliser les rapports de fin d'execution. La mission remercie les autorites comoriennes pour leur
etroite collaboration. Le present Aide-memoire a pour objet de faire le point sur les conclusions
de la mission qui devront &re confirmnees par I'Association.
A. Degre de realisation des objectifs du credit
2.    Objectifs du credit. Le credit MERCAP a ete approuve par le Conseil de la Banque le
13 juin 1991. Les objectifs du credit etaient de supporter le programme d'ajustement structurel
du gouvernement destine: i) a reduire les effectifs de la fonction publique; ii) a permettre le retrait
de l'Etat des activites productives et commerciales et a rationaliser les entreprises publiques
restant dans le portefeuille de I'Etat; iii) a instaurer un processus de programmation des depenses
publiques et a mettre en place un filet de protection des depenses sociales; iv) a amrliorer les
incitations a l'investissement prive; et v) a developper la capacite des institutions locales a la
gestion economique. En terme concret, le programme tel que decrit dans le Document-cadre de
politique economique pour 1991-93 et 1994-96 visait a i) accelerer la croissance r6elle du PIB a
3,5 % en 1993 et a 4,4 % en 1996; ii) ramener le deficit budgetaire global a 16,9 % en 1993 et a
16,1 % en 1996, et la masse salariale de 10 % du PIB en 1990 a 8 % en 1993 et a 7,5 % en 1996;
et iii) eliminer les arrieres de paiement de la dette interieure et exterieure.
3.    Les objectifs d'ensemble du Projet n'ont ete atteints qu'en partie. Les resultats ont ete les
meilleurs en ce qui conceme la liberalisation des echanges commerciaux, la reforme des
reglements et la privatisation des entreprises publiques designees a cet effet. Ils ont ht6 moins
satisfaisants dans les domaines de la reforme des finances publiques, notamment l'amelioration des
recettes fiscales et la maitrise des depenses courantes. Ainsi, la fonction publique a ete all6gee de
35 % de ses effectifs, mais l'incidence sur la masse salariale a ete insignifiante.
4.    Reforme de la fonction publique. Les objectifs etaient de reduire les effectifs d'une
fonction publique plethorique pour faire place a une administration plus restreinte et plus efficace
et alleger la masse salariale, mesure cruciale pour la viabilite financiere. La reforme de la fonction
publique et les mesures prises pour reduire les indemnites des fonctionnaires ont permis de reduire
de 35% les effectifs de l'administration et de ramener la masse salariale de 10,5 % du PIB en 1991
a 7,7 % en 1993. Toutefois, ces ameliorations ont et de courte duree, et la masse salariale est
remontee a 8,2 % du PIB en 1994 et i 8,9 % en 1995 et 1996, en raison de la decision du
Gouvernement en 1994 d'accorder une hausse des traitements et de recruter de nouveaux
enseignants pour repondre aux besoins de l'annee scolaire 1995-96 avant que ne soit terminee la
mise en place des nouvelles structures decoulant de la reforme de la fonction publique.



2
5.    Reforme des entreprises publiques. Les principaux objectifs visaient au retrait de I'Etat
de ses activites de production, de services et de commerce que le secteur prive etait mieux
equippe pour ex6cuter. Le gouvemement a privatise les entreprises publiques designees dans le
programme. Toutefois, la gestion des entreprises restant dans le portefeuille de l'Etat n'a pas ete
amelioree et un systeme comptable uniforme n'a pas ete applique comme convenu. Quant au
probleme des dettes croisees, il n'a et resolu qu'en partie, en raison des difficultes financieres
persistantes des entreprises publiques. Devant l'ampleur de la tache qui reste a accomplir, le
Gouvernement a maintenant decide d'intensifier l'application de sa strategie de reforme dans le
secteur parapublic en privatisant toutes les entreprises restantes, dans le cadre d'un deuxieme
programme d'ajustement structurel en preparation.
6.    Programmation et suivi des d6penses publiques. Les objectifs visaient a etablir un
contr6le du processus d'ex6cution des depenses, de preparer un solide programme
d'investissements publics et d'ameliorer 1'efficacite des depenses publiques, tout en protegeant les
services sociaux de base et en maintenant l'infrastructure existante. Malgre les progres realises en
ce qui conceme la preparation et le suivi du budget, le contr8le des depenses reste insuffisant.
Les paiements au titre des traitements et des missions a 1'etranger ont continue a avoir la priorite
sur les depenses afferentes aux marches de foumitures et de services dans les secteurs sociaux, qui
n'ont e  effectuees qu'a hauteur d'un tiers des credits qui leur etaient alloues au budget. Le
Gouvernement a besoin de prendre des mesures disciplinaires rigoureuses pour reduire les
dupenses moins prioritaires et executer efficacement le budget.
7.    Mesures destinies A ameliorer le developpement du secteur prive.  Les objectifs
visaient a promouvoir une croissance entrain6e par le secteur prive en creant un climat favorable
au d6veloppement de ce secteur. Le Gouvernement a largement libralise le commerce exterieur,
simplifie la tarification douaniere, et elimine/reduit les taxes d'exportation. En janvier 1994, le
gouvernement a devalue le franc comorien de 33 % par rapport aux autres monnaies - cette
mesure n'etait pas prevue par le programme initial - et elimine le contr6le des prix sur tous les
produits, A l'exception de quelques produits de base essentiels. En outre, il a simplifie les
procedures administratives de creation d'entreprises, adopte un nouveau code des investissements
et procede a un examen du cadre juridique et reglementaire dans lequel s'inscrit l'investissement
prive, et cree un centre qui a pour objet d'apporter un appui technique aux petites entreprises.
Bien que ces mesures aient permis d'ameliorer le climat de l'activite 6conomique, le secteur prive
a reagi lentement, et l'investissement prive n'a progresse que de 3,4 % par an en moyenne au
cours de la periode 1991-95. La liberalisation du commerce a toutefois eu pour effet positif de
permettre de doubler le nombre des importateurs et des exportateurs et de stimuler le jeu de la
concurrence.
8.    Composante renforcement des capacites.  La mise en oeuvre de la composante
renforcement des capacites du Credit a progresse de facon satisfaisante, mais les rbsultats n'ont
pas ete A la hauteur des attentes, en raison essentiellement de frequents changements de personnel
et du manque de motivation cause par les arrieres de paiement des traitements de la fonction
publique.   Un appui technique et une formation  sur le tas, notamment en gestion
macroeconomique, ont et dispenses a divers services du Ministere des finances et a la Direction
du Plan. De ce fait, la preparation et le contr6le du budget ont enregistre une amelioration
sensible avec l'eablissernent d'un systeme informatise pour le suivi de l'execution du budget. De



3
meme, la programmation du PIP s'est ameliore, et les projets moins prioritaires en ont ete
elimines. Neanmoins, la coordination de 1'execution des projets avec les bailleurs de fonds et les
ministeres techniques est restee insuffisante. Les fichiers de la dette exterieure sont informatises,
mais la gestion de la dette laisse toujours a desirer en raison du peu d'int6ret manifeste par les
decideurs pour son utilisation. Aux plans de l'analyse et des previsions macroeconomiques, un
appui technique a e  apporte au Comite Technique Permnanent, qui a prete assistance avec
competence au Comite Ministeriel charge de 1'execution du programme d'ajustement.
B. Evaluation des resultats macroeconomiques
9.    Les resultats macroeconomiques enregistres pendant la duree du cr6dit ont et decevants,
malgre une amelioration de courte dur6e de la situation economique et financiere, observ6e du
milieu de l'ann6e 1992 a la fin de l'annee 1993. Apres un serieux derapage au debut du
programme, le PIB reel a accuse une croissance de 3,8% en 1993 et le deficit budgetaire avant les
dons est tombe a son niveau le plus bas (11 % du PIB) dans la meme annee. Ceci a perrnis au
Gouvemement de payer ponctuellement les traitements des fonctionnaires, contrairement aux
annees precedentes ofu les paiements avaient ete effectues avec plusieurs mois de retard. En
meme temps, le deficit courant de la balance des paiements a et ramene de 16,9 % du PIB en
1991 a 12,2 % en 1993 par suite d'un flechissement des importations et de la reprise des
exportations et des transferts prives. Toutefois, les difficultes financieres sont reapparues a partir
de 1994. Sous la pression du syndicat, le gouvernement a accorde apres la d6valuation du FC des
hausses de salaires, qui ont releve la masse salariale de 13 % en 1994 et de 12 % en 1995. Ces
hausses, combinees a de graves deficits des recettes fiscales, ont provoque une remontee du
deficit budgetaire avant dons a 22.4 % du PIB en 1994 et a 17.8 % en 1995. A la fin de 1995, les
arrieres de paiement des traitements de la fonction publique representaient jusqu'a six mois de
traitements, et les arrieres de paiement sur la dette exterieure etaient remontes a 40 millions de
dollars. Le PIB reel a diminue de 2,3 % par an pendant la periode 1994-95, et le deficit du
compte courant exterieur s'est creuse a 21 % du P1IB a cause de la chute des exportations. En
1996, le PIB devrait afficher une croissance d'environ 2 %, sous l'effet du regain de confiance du
secteur prive au lendemain des elections presidentielles de mars. Toutefois, la performance sur les
finances publiques ont continue a etre decevante.
C. Bilan d'execution et Durabilite du projet
10.   L'execution du programme a et inegale. Le programme a pris du retard des le debut,
essentiellement en raison de l'instabilite politique, marqu6e par de nombreux remaniements
ministeriels et plusieurs tentatives de coup d'Etat. La Banque a suspendu l'entree en vigueur du
credit en attendant de pouvoir remedier au d6rapage de la situation macro6conomique. Le rythme
d'execution s'est accelere avec la nomination, au milieu de 1992, d'une nouvelle equipe de
gestion qui a pris une serie de mesures de redressement et reussi a inverser la tendance a
I'augmentation des depenses courantes. Se fondant sur ces progres, la Banque a permis 1'entr6e
en vigueur du credit en decembre 1992, et la premiere tranche a ete debloquee avec 15 mois de
retard sur la date prevue a l'origine. Par la suite de la d6valuation de 1994, les autorites sont
convenues avec la Banque et le FMI du programme macroeconomique decrit dans le deuxieme
Document-cadre de politique economique, portant sur 1994-96. Le Conseil du FMI a approuve
en mars 1994 une deuxieme tranche annuelle du programme finance au titre de la Facilite



4
d'ajustement structurel (FAS), et la Banque a debloque la seconde tranche du credit en
novembre 1994, une fois que toutes les conditions sp6cifiques avaient ete remplies. En raison des
retards dans 1'execution du programme, la date de cloture du credit, fixee initialement au
30 juin 1994, a ete repoussee a deux reprises jusqu'au 31 decembre 1996.
11.   Malgre les progres observes dans certains aspects de reforme, les nouvelles difficultes
financieres auxquelles elles se sont heurtees au cours des annees 1994-96 ont montre que les
Comores avaient resolument besoin d'ex6cuter un ensemble complet de reformes pour rendre ce
programme durable. La stabilite financiere est indispensable si le pays veut reunir les conditions
d'une croissance economique acceleree et retablir la confiance du secteur prive dans l'economie.
JI est donc essentiel que le Gouvemement accorde la priorite absolue au renforcement de
l'administration des douanes, a un controle rigoureux des depenses, et a la reforme de cadre
reglementaire afin de promouvoir le developpement du secteur prive.
D. Evaluation de l'action de la Banque
12.   La Banque a repondu promptement a la demande d'appui que lui a adressee le
Gouvemement pour son programme d'ajustement, et elle a collabore etroitement avec les autres
principaux bailleurs de fonds dans leurs efforts en vue d'aider les autorites a mettre en oeuvre les
r6formes et mobiliser les ressources necessaires.  Grace a un suivi rigoureux de certains
indicateurs de performance, la Banque a pu intervenir en temps voulu et collaborer avec les
autorites a la formulation de mesures correctives afin de remettre le programme sur les rails et
d'accelerer le rythme des reformes. La Banque a veille de pres a aider a la realisation des objectifs
du programme, et elle a decide de surseoir au deblocage des tranches du credit jusqu'A ce que les
conditions prescrites aient ete remplies. Cela a permis au Gouvemement de prendre plusieurs
mesures impopulaires, mais cruciales pour redresser la situation et faire avancer le programme.
E. Evaluation de P'action de l'Emprunteur
13.   La volonte de reforme n'a pas ete sans failles, et le programme a deraille a deux reprises
pendant son execution. Neanmoins, la necessit6 de maintenir une certaine rigueur budgetaire, de
meme que l'interet qu'il y a a limiter le r6le de I'Etat et A developper les perspectives d'une
croissance entraine par le secteur prive sont aujourd'hui plus largement compris que jamais. Les
autorites ont donne suite aux recommandations des missions de supervision et collabore avec la
Banque A la recherche de solutions pour relancer le programme. Des audits ont ete effectues
chaque annee par un cabinet d'experts-comptables connu, et les rapports d'audit ont et
communiques a l'IDA en temps voulu. Des rapports trimestriels d'activite sur le programme
d'ajustement ont ete etablis par les autorites pendant toute la duree d'execution du programme.
F. Experience tiree de l'execution du MERCAP
14.   Quatre lecons se degagent de l'experience du credit.  Premierement, un programme
d'ajustement doit etre concu pour appuyer des actions concretes debouchant sur des resultats
positifs, plutot que pour financer des reformes futures ou des promesses de reforme.
Deuxiemement, I'ajustement interne ne suffit pas a lui seul lorsque le pays a vu sa competitivite
serieusement s'emousser sur la scene internationale. II a fallu la devaluation de janvier 1994 pour



5
corriger largement la surevaluation de la monnaie et ameliorer la competitivite exterieure des
Comores. Troisiemement, l'entiere adhesion du pays au programme d'ajustement et sa stabilite
politique sont indispensables au succes d'un tel programme. Celui-ci doit etre le fruit de plusieurs
series de pourparlers, menes a la maniere de consultations avec divers e1lments de la societ6
civile. Quatriemement, une operation hybride combinant deux composantes qui supposent des
rythmes de decaissement differents n'est pas une formule souhaitable.
15.   Du fait des lecons tirees ci-dessus, le deuxieme programme d'ajustement structurel a et
prepare tout en s'assurant que i) le programme d'ajustement avait et pleinement compris et avait
l'entiere adhesion des autorites et de la societe civile; ii) la situation politique etait suffisaniment
stable pour permettre le succes du programme; iii) les politiques d'ajustement essentielles avaient
et adoptees et des mesures concretes avaient ete prises pour renforcer le recouvrement de
l'imp6t, resserrer le controle des depenses et privatiser les principales entreprises publiques; et
iv) les mesures prises deboucheraient sur une amelioration sensible des finances publiques.
G. Prochaines etapes
16.   fl est convenu que le credit MERCAP sera cl6ture comme prevu le 31 decembre 1996. La
completion des rapports de fin d'execution est programmee pour la fin du mois de fevrier 1997 et
la presentation de ce rapport au Conseil de la Banque est prevue pour avrilUmai prochain. Afin de
respecter ces dates, il serait souhaitable que les autorites communiqueront a la Banque dans le
courant du mois de janvier prochain i) les resultats economiques et financiers de l'annee 1996,
notamment les estimations des grands agregats (PIB) et le TOFE; ii) le rapport final de fin
d'ex6cution prepare par les autorites comoriennes; et iii) les commentaires des autorites sur le
projet du rapport de fin d'execution pr6pare par la Banque. En outre, I'audit pour 1996 doit &re
effectue des le debut de 1997.
Fait a Moroni, le 04 Decembre 1996.
Christos Kostopoulos






ANNEX 2
BORROWER EVALUATION OF PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION






(1)
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION CREDIT POUR LA REFORME
NACRO-ECONONIQUE ET LE RENFORCENENT DES CAPACITE
(CREDIT N 22 70-COM)
- Sommaire
I) - Contexte General
II) - Objectifs du Credit
III) - Realisation des Objectifs du projet
IV) - Le,ons a tirer



(2)
I) CONTEXTE GENERAL
L'economie   comorienne   a  connu   une   croissance
relativement rapide au cours de la decennie 1975-85. Ensuite les
difficultes economiques et financieres deviennent de plus en plus
severes durant la periode 1986-89 :
- Stagnation du taux de croissance economique reel en
raison de la reduction substantielle des investissements finances
sur des ressources exterieures ;
- Baisse des exportations
- Maintien d'un taux de croissance demographique de
3,3% l'an ;
- Deficit budgetaire (dons exclus)reste a un niveau
equivalent a 24% du P.I.B.
- Deficit du compte courant de la balance des paiements
(dons exclus) depassant 20% du P.I.B. en moyenne pendant cette
periode. (les 2 deficits finances par un niveau eleve de dons
exterieurs et par l'accumulation d'arrieres de paiements
interieurs et exterieurs) et deterioration des termes de
l'echange (faible competitivite exterieure et faible rentabilite
des exportations).
la situation financiere slest par ailleurs degradee a
la suite d'une politique de gestion budgetaire liche, une
mauvaise gestion des entreprises publiques et une demande
soutenue au niveau des importations.
Face & ces difficultes economiques et financieres, les
autorites comoriennes ont mis en oeuvre en 1989 et en 1990, un
certain nombre de mesures visant a reduire les desequilibres
financiers importants et & ameliorer les perspectives de
croissance.
Ces mesures ont apporte une amelioration des Finances
Publiques.
Cependant compte tenu du caractere profond des
desequilibres financiers, des problemes structurels et l'impact
de plusieurs annees de mauvaise gestion 6conomique, le
Gouvernement a decide de renforcer ses efforts d'ajustement dans
le contexte d'un Programme d'Ajustement Structurel & moyen terme
couvrant la periode de 1991-1993.
Le Gouvernement a par ailleurs demande & la Banque un
appui & ce programme.
La Banque octroie aux autorites comoriennes un credit
de developpement de 6 millions de D.T.S. le 13 Juin 1991



(3)
II) OBJECTIFS DU CREDIT :
les objectifs du credit etaient de supporter le
programme d'ajustement structurel du gouvernement destine
a) a degraisser la Fonction Publique ;
b) & permettre le retrait de l'Etat des activites
productives et commerciales et & rationnaliser les entreprises
publiques restant dans le portefeuille de l'Etat ;
c) & instaurer un processus de programmation des depenses
publiques et a mettre en place un filet de protection des
depenses sociales;
d) & am6liorer les incitations a l'investissement priv6 ;
e) et & ddvelopper la capacite des institutions locales &
la gestion economique.
En d'autres termes, le programme decrit dans le
document cadre de politique economique pour 1991-93 et 1994-96
visait & :
- accelerer la croissance reelle du P.I.B. & 3,5% en 1993
et & 4,4% en 1996 ;
- a ramener le deficit budgetaire global & 16,9% en 1993 et
a 16,1/ en 1996, et la masse salariale de 10% du P.I.B en 1990
A 8% en 1993 et & 7,5% en 1996, et ;
- 6liminer les arrieres de paiement de la dette interieure
et exterieure.
III) REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
D'une fa,on generale, le projet Mercap a connu beaucoup
de retard et de difficultes dus & l'instabilite politique
chronique (coups d'Etat, intrusions repetees des mercenaires dans
le pays, grande instabilite des equipes de direction dans les
services publics).
la grande faiblesse institutionnelle qui a prevalu
jusqu'& maintenant dans les services strategiques de l'Etat
(Tresor, Impots, Douanes, Fonction Publique, Services de la
Statistique etc...) constitue egalement une cause majeure dans
les difficultes rencontrees.



(4)
En revanche, meme s'il nous faut saluer l'engagement
de la Banque et des autres bailleurs de fonds a aider les
Comores, les methodes d'intervention de ces institutions n'ont
pas reellement permis une appropriation et une comprehension
adequates du projet MERCAP, en dehors de quelques cadres inities.
L'adhesion des differents segments de la societe au programme
necessite un travail systematique d'information et de persuasion.
Plus sp6cifiquement, la realisation des objectifs a ete
mitigee, en ce qui concerne la liberalisation des echanges
commerciaux et la privatisation des entreprises publiques.
Le Mercap a par contre eu des resultats insatisfaisants
dans le domaine macro-economique :
- concernant la reforme de la Fonction Publique, seulement
deux departements ministeriels ont procede au degraissage de
leurs effectifs (Education et Sante). Ceci a malgre tout permis
une reduction de 35% des effectifs. Par ailleurs, les effectifs
de l'armee ont ete reduits d'un tiers.
Cette performance a ete annihilee & la suite de la
devaluation du Franc comorien (FC) et l'augmentation des salaires
qui en a resulte. De meme, la masse salariale n'a pas ete
maitrisee a cause des nouveaux recrutements et des contr6les
physiques qui n'ont pas ete effectues de facon rigoureuse.
Ces deficiences sont imputables & la partie comorienne.
Du cote de la Banque, l'accent a ete mis beaucoup plus
sur les aspects de reduction budgetaire que sur l'aspect
qualitatif de la Fonction Publique, en termes d'organisation et
de methode. Ainsi les cadres organiques n'ont pas fait l'objet
d'une attention particuliere ni de la part des autorites
comoriennes, ni de la part des bailleurs.
Concernant les Entreprises Publiques, 1'Etat comorien
a procede & une reduction du quart du volume des actifs para-
publics. Le manque de volonte ferme des autorites, combine a
l'instabilite chronique a empeche une plus grande performance.
la demotivation du personnel et la confusion dans les
responsabilites ainsi que les conditions deplorables de travail
en constituent une autre explication.
I1 faut egalement souligner l'existence d'un secteur
prive & l'etat embryonnaire et d'une taille etroite du marche.
Le manque d'information systematique et d'explication
du programme, combines & l'abscence de volonte politique durable
n'ont pas permis une realisation satisfaisante de ces mesures.
Depenses publiques : le manque du rigueur du Tresor
public et l'excroissance des depenses liees aux missions &
l'exterieur n'ont pas permis une maitrise des depenses publiques.
Il en r6sulte une accumulation de la Dette interieure et
exterieure.



(5)
La faiblesse institutionnelle est aussi caracteris6e
par une faiblesse notoire des services de depenses.
Ceci est imputable aux autorites.
Du cote de la Banque, il est souligne la lenteur dans
les  decaissements,   lenteur  liee  &  des  conditionnalit6s
relativement dures.
1'amelioration de la competitivitd 
Des efforts substantiels ont ete accomplis par le Gouvernement
en ce qui concerne l'allegement des charges des entreprises, la
liberation des exportations de vanille aux petits exportateurs,
la suppression de monopole sur le ciment, le tabac, la viande et
le riz de qualite superieure.
Le tarif douanier a ete simplifie ; de meme le franc
comorien a ete devalue.
Malgre ces efforts, le secteur prive n'a pas connu un
essor fulgurant, & cause de l'incertitude liee & l'environnement
politique et socio-economique.
Par ailleurs, nous attirons l'attention de la Banque
sur les elements suivants, en complement des differents aspects
dej& evoques :
A). Le Ministere des Finances a hautement apprecie la
fourniture de materiel de gestion economique et d'analyse macro-
4conomique. La formation en cours d'emploi dispensee & l'endroit
de certains membres du personnel du Ministere des Finances nous
semble satisfaisante et de bonne mesure. Les etudes relatives a
l'imposition des produits petroliers, enquete sur la consommation
des menages ... ont eminemment retenu l'int4rAt du Minist6re des
Finances. Plusieurs de leurs recommandations ont fortement
contribue A ameliorer notre capacite institutionnelle.
Cependant nous convient - il d'indiquer quelques
observations.
B) AUTRES OBSERVATIONS:
1) Renforcement de la capacite des institutions au
niveau de la Direction Generale du Budget .
a)  -  La  fourniture  d'equipement  fut  insuffisante.
l'utilisation d'un seul ordinateur pour traiter toute la solde
de la Fonction Publique relbve d'une gageure.
b) - En matibre de formation et de transfert de connaissance
au benefice du personnel local on regrettera l'absence
d'apprentissage de l'outil informatique (le cas est egalement
valable pour le Tresor-Public).



(6)
c) - Les etudes ainsi que les systemes preconises et mis en
place par les consultants Mercap perdent par la suite, de leur
efficacit6, en raison de l'absence de suivi et de contr6le.
2) : Renforcement de la capacite institutionnelle au niveau
de la Direction Generale du Plan (D.G.P.)
a) La D.G.P. en charge du P.I.P a beaucoup souffert, en
matiere d'appui technique et materiel, des changements fr6quents
de directeur de projet et de chef de service.
b) - l'achat d'une 6norme photocopieuse Minolta, a grands
frais, que personne n'a pu faire fonctionner jusqu'alors ne
semble pas avoir ete une option judicieuse.
c) - Le logiciel P.I.P est d'acces tres difficile. Le besoin
d'une modification   mineure est necessaire pour en faciliter
l'utilisation.
d) L'expert informaticien n'a pas pu livrer la plenitude de
sa mesure.
IV LECONS A TIRER
I1 s'avere qu'un programme d'ajustement a d'autant
moins de chance de succes dans un pays, quand il persiste une
instabilite politique et sociale chronique.
Par ailleurs, un programme d'ajustement a aussi
d'autant plus de chance de succes que quand il existe une volonte
politique durable des autorites ; ainsi qu'une politique
systematique d'information et de compr6hension du programme est
necessaire.
I1 s'avere 6galement important d'avoir une composante
institutionnelle forte du programme, ainsi qu'une incitation
adequate des agents charges d'executer ce programme.
Dans ce contexte, les autorites doivent veiller & une
stabilite des cadres concernes.
Concernant la Banque, elle devra veiller tout
particulierement a l'appropriation des programmes par le pays,
ce qui prend beaucoup de temps au depart mais permet plus tard
d'executer le projet sur une periode moins longue.
Noroni le 7 fvr, te  1997
LE Ministre, des Financ, &       4get de
1'Econoimie et du       die' Int&ieur
MO   FD5ALI SOILIHI'J
W     '~~~~./












IMAGING    Al
Report No.:         16349
Type:      ICR



