Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2270 COM
(Macro-Economic Reform and Capacity Building Credit)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 3, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2270 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1991, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated June 11, 1991, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designated to 
achieve macro-economic reforms (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the Program, 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of urgently needed imports required during the execution of the Program and of the 
Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from African Development Fund (ADF) a 
credit (the ADF Credit) in an amount equivalent to about $17,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADF 
Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Project and the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget and 
Planning;
(b)
"Special Accounts, Special Account A and Special Account B" mean the 
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
December 1, 1990, January 15,
1991, April 15, 1991 and May 2, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions  set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Comorian Francs the special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) 
in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2001, and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2011, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) the Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section: (i) the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the ADF Credit have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the ADF Credit Agreement; or (ii) the ADF Credit shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 
(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the ADF Credit has been approved by the Executive Directors of ADF; and
 
(b)
the Borrower has prepared an action plan for civil service reform 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  6
Ministcre de l'Economie, des Finances,
   du Budget et du Plan
Moroni
Comoros
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
By /s/ Amine Ali Moumin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods for                   185,000        100% of foreign
     Parts A, B                                 expenditures and
     and C of                                   85% of local
     the Project                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                666,000        100%
Page  7
     services, studies,
     training and audit
(3)  Goods imported            4,500,000        100% of foreign
     during the                                 expenditures
     execution of the
     Program
(4)  Refunding of the            444,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 205,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 6,000,000
                               =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in the aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 880,000 may be
made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for expenditures prior to 
that date but after February 15, 1991; and
(b)
in respect of Category (3) for:
 
(i)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice 
to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112            -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121            -                  Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122            -                  Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525            -
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667            -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718          718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated for nuclear reactors
897          897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including set 
gems)
Page  8
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates)
(ii)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than 
$2,000 equivalent;
 
(iii)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any 
national or 
international financing institution or agency other 
than the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance;
 
(iv)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military 
purpose or for 
luxury consumption; and
 
(v)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 
880,000 for 
petroleum products and SDR 880,000 for foodstuffs.
 
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of Category (3) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit Account under Category (3) of paragraph 1 above, and the total amount of 
such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of  SDR 2,250,000 unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after the exchange of views as described in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
5.
If, after any exchange of views described in paragraph 4 (a) above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to Category (3) of paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to 
implement the macro-economic reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of MOF's capacity for budget preparation, budget execution, 
expenditure control and implementation of the Program and on-the-job training of 
selected MOF staff.
Part B:
Strengthening of the capacity of the Planning Directorate for the 
preparation and monitoring of three-year rolling public investment programs and 
provision of equipment needed therefor.
Part C:
Provision and installation of computer equipment for the management of 
public debt.
Part D:
Studies relating to the taxation of petroluem products, a household 
consumption survey, the regulatory framework for private sector activity and other 
topics agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I.
Procurement of Goods Financed under the Project
 
1.
Except as provided in Section 2 hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three eligible suppliers, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000  or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
4.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected by the Borrower in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981.
Section III.
Procurement of Goods not covered under Section I of this Schedule
 
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$400,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
Page  10
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $400,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association;
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where 
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
(c)
by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than one supplier.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed 
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and 
recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request. Where payments under a 
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Accounts, such copies 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and 
information as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of 
Special Accounts, the documentation and the information to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
5.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Section shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures. 
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of
Page  11
Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(1)
SOCOVIA has been privatized or the Borrower has legally dissolved SOCOVIA and 
initiated the liquidation of its assets.
(2)
The Borrower has carried out an evaluation to determine the value of the four 
hotels owned by COMOTEL and has made a realistic offer to sell such hotels in at least 
three international reputable publications.
(3)
The Borrower has enacted a budget for 1992 and a public investment program for 
1992-1994, both acceptable to the Association.
(4)
The Borrower has made adequate progress in the implementation of its civil 
service reform  action plan in accordance with its timetable.
(5)
The Borrower has prepared an action plan, including a timetable for its 
implementation, to reduce regulatory obstacles to private sector activities, 
acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category (3) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in the case of Special Account A and 
Categories (1) and (2) of such table in the case of Special Account B;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1 million 
in the case of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $200,000 in the case of 
Special Account B, such
amounts to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
Page  12
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
