Report No. 23346
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/10/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: PARAGUAY        Project ID: P069269
Project: Pilot Community Development Project     Task Team Leader: Estanislao
Gacitua-Mario
Appraisal Date: December 8, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 9.00
Board Date: February 21, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSEO     Sector: SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project seeks to improve the
quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural and marginal urban
communities in three departments on the southern border of Paraguay
(Itapua, Misiones and leembuca) . The project will contribute to poverty
alleviation and to the strengthening of the capacity of local communities
to implement community development activities by: (i) creating income
generating opportunities for poor communities and (ii) building capacity
of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design
and implement community development activities.
To achieve this objective, the project will: (i) finance small grants for
demand-based income generation and community development sub-projects;
(ii) support institutional development activities for strengthening the
capacity of local governments and community organizations in the planning,
design, implementation and evaluation of community development projects;
and (iii) develop a monitoring and evaluation system that would allow the
project to learn about the sustainability of the different instruments and
delivery mechanisms implemented and to adapt, disseminate and mainstream
those that work.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project comprises the following components:
Community Development Investment Fund. This component will finance
demand-driven community development and income generating sub-projects
(civil works, goods, technical assistance) prepared and submitted by
groups of eligible beneficiaries. This component will also finance a
pilot subcomponent for Municipal community development subprojects, which
will be prepared and submitted by the municipal governments.
Capacity Building and Institutional Development. This component is
designed to facilitate project implementation and to strengthen local
communities capacities to design and implement community development
activities, and to facilitate their participation in overall project
implementation. This component will finance support services, including
technical assistance (pre-investment for non-organized groups), training
and organizational development, and the implementation of a participatory
monitoring and evaluation system.



Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will support
the establishment of a centralized Project Coordination and Monitoring
Unit (PCMU) to coordinate technical and administrative aspects, oversee
implementation and carry out specialized studies.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project location is on the southern border of Paraguay (Itapua,
Misiones and Neembucu)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment:
Most project activities are likely to have no negative environmental
impacts. Most of the sub-projects to be supported are likely to either
have neutral or positive environmental impacts. Some sub-projects
(agricultural productivity and small cottage industries) may pose minor
environmental risks. Appropriate environmental screening criteria and
procedures ("Procedimientos Ambientales para Determinar los Impactos
Ambientales de los Proyectos con Fondos Sociales", in project files) for
all subprojects have been developed and found satisfactory by the Bank.
Institutional arrangements have been agreed to guarantee the participation
of local or municipal environmental offices in the screening of all
sub-projects, thus ensuring further local capacity building. The criteria
and procedures were applied to a set of projects that have already been
identified in participating provinces and all projects were found to be
Category B according to Bank policies. The criteria and procedures were
- 2-



also discussed with and approved by the Sub-secretary of Natural Resources
and Environment in the Ministry of Environment, in charge of the EIA
system in Paraguay. Appropriate technical guidance will be provided as
needed to sub-projects to deal with siting, construction techniques and
waste management.
Technical assistance and participation of local agencies in the screening
of projects will be further strengthened by training and environmental
awareness programs implemented in parallel to the sub-projects.
Social:
A social assessment of the three selected departments was completed during
project preparation. The focus of the social assessment was on the
identification of: (i) the main constraints faced by the poor to access
resources and government services as well as to participate in local
government decision making; (ii) potential sub-projects addressing the
issues identified, and (iii) the preparation of a participation plan for
project implementation. To this end, in each department a participatory
diagnostic was carried out in urban and local communities using PRA/ZOPP
methodologies. As a result of the social assessment a set of
demand-driven sub-projects was identified for each department. Special
emphasis was given to vulnerable groups to ensure that women, indigenous
groups and youth/children have access to the project.
The main social development objectives of the Pilot project are: (i)
decreasing social exclusion; (ii) improving access of the poor to
productive resources; (iii) institutional strengthening of local
governments and community organizations; (iv) increasing transparency and
accountability of local institutions and, (v) improving equity
particularly for youth, women and indigenous groups in the project area
During project preparation relevant stakeholders were systematically
consulted. At the local level, more that 30 communities were consulted
during the preparation of the Departmental diagnostics. Also, two
workshops with relevant stakeholders were held early during the
preparation process. Finally, three formal consultations (one in each
department) took place after the draft project document including the
recommendations provided by the local communities was prepared.      As a
result of the consultation process during project preparation the
priorities of the local communities were identified, a sample of
subprojects was prepared and, a proposal for continuing stakeholder
participation during implementation and monitoring was discussed and
included in project design.
The project includes two different mechanisms to ensure beneficiaries and
civil society participation in the project. First, through the CCLs and
the CDDs, representatives of the beneficiaries, civil society and local
governments will participate in the screening of the subprojects, checking
eligibility criteria (of projects and beneficiaries), consistency with
local development priorities and would recommend their approval.
Second, through the participatory monitoring and evaluation system,
beneficiaries and representatives of civil society would have chance to
- 3 -



check progress in project implementation as well as monitor outcomes,
outputs and impacts.
Indigenous Peoples:
There are 17 different indigenous peoples in Paraguay which represent less
than lt of the total population of the country. Different estimates
suggest that the indigenous population is about 70,000 to 80,000, most of
them concentrated in the dry occidental region of the country known as "El
Chaco" In the Southeastern region of the country there is only less than
one third of the indigenous population, approximately 25,000. All of them
from the Tupi-Guarani linguistic family (Ache, Chiripa-guarani,
Mbya-gurani, Pai-Tavytera, Guarani occidentales/guarayos,
Guarani-nandeva/tapiete).
However, in the selected departments (Itapua, Misiones and ieembucu), the
indigenous population is reduced to a few communities, mostly in Itapua
and one in Misiones totaling less than 350 individuals. A significant
proportion of this population is urban or peri-urban (settled in the
vicinity of Encarnaci6n). Another group is settled in a (rural) community
that was established as part of the resettlement program of Yacyreta. The
key social problems affecting these communities have to do with: (i)
access to land; (ii) lack of employment and/or income generating
activities and, (iii) lack of access to services.
Currently, the Bank supported Natural Resources Management Project has an
Indigenous component that is addressing land acquisition issues and
providing support through INDI to facilitate indigenous peoples' access to
education and health services.
The Community Development Pilot Project would specifically target
indigenous groups in the project area. To this end, indigenous groups
will receive special TA to participate in the project. Special funds
would be used to identify, prepare and submit sub-projects to the
Community Investment Fund. At the same time, the capacity building and
institutional strengthening component will support specific training and
capacity building activities at the local/municipal level to ensure
indigenous peoples' organizations are better equipped to participate in
decision making processes.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
No cumulative impacts are expected. No EMP will be required.
Sub-projects will be screened for potential environmental impacts. Most
sub-projects are expected to have no negative environmental impacts. If
the environmental screening of sub-projects identifies potential
environmental risks, specific sub-project mitigation measures will be
required.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
- 4 -



activities in the project area.
No long term impacts are anticipated.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
During project preparation a sample of potential sub-projects were
analyzed to identify the type of potential environmental impacts.
According to Paraguayan legislation, an environmental screening procedure
was developed during project preparation. Guidelines for environmental
screening data-sheets were prepared prior to appraisal (See Annex 11). The
environmental screening procedure identifies potential environmental risks
and, when required, includes specific environmental management measures.
All subprojects will be screened and cleared by the PCU Environmental
Specialist. The Vice Minister of Environmental and Sustainable
Development will check on the screeing and provide final approval.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
A consultative process was developed during project preparation. Two
consultative workshops with key stakeholders and several focus groups with
potential project beneficiaries were carried out. During these workshops
and focus groups, among other issues, the participants understanding and
perception of the potential environmental impacts of the sub-projects were
analyzed and discussed. The first consultation took place in September
2001 and had the objective of discussing the project concept (objectives,
potential institutional arrangements, type of activities to be supported
and, in that context, potential environmental impacts). The second
consultative workshop will take place at the end of project preparation to
present and discuss final project arrangements
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      11/16/2001       11/16/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 11/16/2001        11/16/2001
- 5-



Date of submission to InfoShop   12/7/2001       Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Estanislao Gacitua-Mario         11/20/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Juan D. Quintero/Person/World Bank       11/20/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         11/21/01
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood     11/21/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



