Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23688-PA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
PARAGUAY PILOT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4,2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 12, 2002)
Currency Unit                                   Guarani (G.)
G. 1                                        US$0.00022
US$1                                           G.4,650
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     --    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
BCP                 Central Bank of Paraguay
BNF                 National Development Bank
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEPAL               Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC)
CSO                 Civil Society Organizations
CQ                  Consultant Qualifications
DC                  Departmental Committee
DIBEN               Direcci6n de Beneficencia y Ayuda Social
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
1NDI                National Institute of Indigenous Development
IEER                Internal Economic Rates of Return
LC                  Local Committee
LCS                 Least Cost Selection
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation System
MOPC                Ministry of Public Works and Communications
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NFB                 Not Bank Financed
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PD                  Participatory Diagnostic
PAS                 Procurement Accredited Staff
POA                 'Annual Operating Plan
QBS                 Quality Based Selection
QCBC                Quality and Cost Based Selection
SAS                 Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria de Acci6n Social)
SIF                 Social Investment Fund-
SFB                 Selection Under a Fixed Budget
STP                 Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
SIFEM               Monitoring & Evaluation and Financial Information System
SM                  Women's Secretariat
UA                  Administrative Unit
UT                  Technical Unit
UNDP                United Nations Development Programn
Vice President:                                   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:                         Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:                          John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                    Estanislao Gacituia-Mari6



THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
PILOT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design                                16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25



THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
PILOT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    26
2. Critical risks                                                                    27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    28
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           28
2. Other                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 58
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           60
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment (Executive Summary)                                  62
Annex 12: Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria De Accion Social) Organization Chart    71
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                                             73
Paraguay. Map IBRD 23866



PARAGUAY
Pilot Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSEO
Date: March 4, 2002                             Team Leader: Estanislao Gacitua-Mario
Country Director: Myma L. Alexander              Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P069269                              Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 0 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ ], Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                          Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     1.06           0.09          1.15
IBRD                                                         8.22           0.78          9.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            1.03           0.00          1.03
Total:                                                      10.32           0.87         11.18
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Responsible agency: SOCIAL ACTION SECRETARIAT (SECRETARIA DE ACCION SOCIAL)
Secretaria de Acci6n Social
Address: Presidente Franco esquina Ayolas, Edificio AYFRA, 2do piso
Contact Person: Dr. Aurelio A. Varela C., Ministro Secretario Ejecutivo
Tel: (595 21) 496-799         Fax: (595 21) 447-745          Email: Avarela@presidencia.gov.py
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003      2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.00        1.87      2.83       3.54      0.76
Cumulative    0.00       1.87      4.70       8.24      9.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OQ PAD F: P. M   20D



PARAGUAY - Pilot Community Development Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Pilot Community Development Project seeks to test a decentralized, participatory, bottom up
development approach as a way to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural and
marginal urban communities in three departments on the southern border of Paraguay (Itapuia, Misiones
and Neembucui). The Project will contribute to the development of the capacity of local communities to
implement poverty alleviation and community development activities by: (i) supporting small productive,
income generating and community development sub-Projects for poor communities; and (ii) building
capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design and implement these
activities.
To achieve this objective, the Project would: (i) finance small grants for demand-based income generation
and community development sub-Projects; (ii) support institutional development activities for
strengthening the capacity of local governments and community organizations in the planning, design,
implementation and evaluation of development Projects; and (iii) develop a transparent and participatory
monitoring and evaluation system that would allow to assess implementation progress, and to systematize
and disseminate the lessons learned.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project outcomes and impacts will be assessed by a combination of baseline data, mid-term and
evaluation studies, monitoring indicators and qualitative assessments described in Annex 1. A set of key
performance indicators will track the extent to which the Project objectives are being met. The definition
of the indicators is based on the log-frame analysis for the Project and the criteria used to select the
indicators seek to ensure that Project outputs will be measured and Project impacts will be assessed
independently and through participatory mechanisms. Selected indicators are relatively few in number,
easy to measure and designed to give meaningful information. Key performance indicators for the Project
are of two types: (i) output indicators (physical performance); and (ii) outcome indicators (development
performance).
(i) Main Indicators: The baseline and the Project M&E system will be used to measure Project outputs,
outcome and impacts. Specifically:
*  Number of new groups established, trained and submitting sub-Projects proposals.
*  Number of income generation and community development sub-Projects financed.
*  Number of sub-Projects targeted to vulnerable groups (indigenous, women, youth/children)
*  Number of families receiving sub-Projects.
*  Sustainability of community organizations and groups after sub-Project implementation.
*  Number ofjobs generated by sub-Projects.
*  Satisfactory participation of community groups and local institutions in Project implementation
and monitoring.
*  Number of local organizations routinely participating in local decision making structures.
*  Increased capacity of local institutions and community groups to design local development
activities.
*  Increased income of participating families.
-2-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number:: R97-34 Date of latest CAS discussion: March 27, 1997
The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) sets two central objectives. The first objective is poverty
reduction through programs focusing on rural and marginal urban areas, through increased productivity.
At the same time, the CAS emphasizes the need for state reforms to promote private sector participation,
improve accountability and decentralize certain functions to the local level. The CAS calls to sustain
growth and reduce poverty by maintaining macroeconomic policies aimed at fiscal discipline,
encouraging private sector development, expanding access to financing mechanisms in rural markets,
promoting decentralization and community participation, increasing income generating opportunities and
improving access to social services for the poor. A relatively small, poverty focused program was
envisaged, amounting to about $ 50 million per year, with roughly two new projects annually. The
strategy also calls for the use of pilot schemes before proceeding with larger projects, with strong
community and local involvement in their design and implementation.
The proposed Project, the first loan to Paraguay since 1997, is consistent with this strategy. Lending
under the 1997 CAS was to be triggered by: (i) improvement in performance of the existing portfolio,
with no more than 25 percent of the portfolio rated as unsatisfactory; and (ii) maintenance of a sound
macro-economic position. Specifically in the event that the fiscal deficit exceeded 2 percent of GDP,
further lending would be reconsidered. Up until 2001, economic conditions and Project implementation
performance in Paraguay meant that the triggers allowing new lending were not met. On the side of the
portfolio, an extensive effort at improving project performance was undertaken during 1999-2000 and the
portfolio has become satisfactory (that is, no more than 25 percent unsatisfactory) since the end of 2000.
With regard to the fiscal deficit, the Government was able to reduce its deficit from 4 percent in 2000 to 2
percent in 2001 and has largely complied with the other targets agreed under its shadow program with the
IMF. Thus, both triggers for renewed lending have been met. The proposed Project addresses the two
strategic objectives identified in the 1997 CAS by financing community development and income-
generating investments for poor and vulnerable groups and providing support to local institutions to
strengthen their capacity to develop and implement community development activities on a pilot basis.
The World Bank-Republic of Paraguay 88.56%-11.44% (net of taxes) cost-sharing arrangement proposed
for this Project is consistent with the 3-year rolling-average of 60%-40% at the present level of the Bank's
Paraguayan portfolio, in accordance with Operational Policy (OP) 6.30 and Bank Procedure (BP) 6.30.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty remains a significant challenge. Paraguay is a country where poverty is explained by the lack of
strong institutions (state and civil society), the underutilization of the country's resources of labor and
land and the lack of forward and backward linkages between productive sectors.
Paraguay's growth performance during the 1990s has been disappointing. Between 1990 and 1999 per
capita income fell by 4 percent with most of the deterioration occurring within the last five years. Since
1995, the economy contracted four straight years, with real per capita GDP falling by 10 percent during
the period. In 2000, GDP contracted by 0.4 percent and the agricultural sector declined by 8.5 percent.
An extended banking crisis, falling agricultural prices and other external shocks have combined to
-3-



produce the recession. During 2001, however, there were significant advances in macro-economic
management and signs of a recovery with the economy growing at 0.8 percent.
Further efforts to undertake structural reforms-some already underway-combined with the
continuation of the prudent fiscal management demonstrated during the past year are needed in order to
sustain the recovery and to accelerate growth. These are key features of the Government's current
economic program. In addition, the Government is making a serious. effort to mobilize and rationalize
resources dedicated to poverty reduction activities and to improve the institutional capacity of core
agencies to deliver social programs. Further details on the status of the poor in Paraguay, based on the
recently completed Poverty Assessment and the Government's evolving poverty reduction strategy are
provided below.
Poverty and Social Exclusion
Paraguay's population in 2000 was estimated at 5.5 million people, of which about 46 percent lived in
rural areas, a much higher rate than other Latin American countries. Although the population growth rate
has fallen since the 1980s from 3.1 percent to 2.7 percent in the 1990s, this rate still is significantly
higher than the average of 1.5 percent for other middle income countries. Most of the population (65%) is
under 29 years old and four out of ten people are under 15 years old. A small proportion of the
population is of indigenous origin. There are some 70,000 indigenous peoples from 17 different ethnic
groups (estimates range from 38,000 to 120,000), about two-thirds of them living in the Chaco region.
According to the Bank's recent Poverty Assessment, the overall poverty rate for Paraguay between 1995
and 1999 increased from 30 percent to 34 percent. There are significant variations in the distribution of
poverty, between urban (26.7%) and rural (42%) areas, regions of the country, and social groups. A large
part of the increase in poverty has been in the countryside. In 1995, there were 1.5 million poor of whom
670,000 were extremely poor. In 1999, the number of poor had increased to 1.8 million, of whom
830,000 were extremely poor. Of the net increase in extreme poverty between 1995 and 1999, most of it
(94%) took place in rural areas, where the percentage of extreme poor rose from 75 percent to 79 percent.
Poverty rates are higher among large and young families, female-headed households, particularly in urban
areas, where about a third of extremely poor households are female headed, compared to only one-fourth
of other households. Poverty is also higher among the youth (15-29 years old), particularly in rural areas.
About 45 percent of children under 15 years old live in poverty. Regarding schooling, among the extreme
poor, adults have an average of less than 4 years of schooling. Educational attainment of mothers among
poor families is low. Hardly any mothers among poor families have secondary education. Although few
in number, by far, the poorest in Paraguay are the indigenous peoples. Finally, the poverty rate is higher
among those households in which "Guarani" is their primary language. While this does not imply that
people in these households do not speak Spanish, it does suggest that they are more comfortable
communicating in Guarani and that their cultural framework is different from those who only speak
Spanish. Discrimination, based on culture and language among other characteristics, could influence
opportunity and income levels.
There are variations in poverty rates among regions. Poverty rates are substantially higher (44.5%) in
areas in the central region along the corridor from Asunci6n to Ciudad del Este, in the northern region
(61.5%), and in the north-east region. The area around the capital, Asunci6n, has long tended to be the
richest part of Paraguay. Even in the more productive departments, there are areas where poverty rates
surpass the national or regional average. In the case of the southern region of Paraguay, consisting of the
Departments of Itapu2a, Misiones, and fReembucu, there have been declines in agricultural, industrial and
commercial activity. While the urban sector (commerce, services and industrial activities) and some
-4-



modem agricultural producers have experienced growth, the urban poor and small farmers have not
benefited. The lack of productive diversification in both rural and urban areas has decreased employment
opportunities and exacerbated poverty. Both Misiones and Neembucui rely heavily on livestock ranching,
as the majority of the land is occupied by large land owners. In Misiones, for example, the poor hold a
very low percentage of landholdings (approximately 5 percent of the total land). Itapuia demonstrates a
higher capacity for large-scale agricultural production, being first nationally in the production of wheat,
second in soy and third in cotton. Nonetheless, all three departments have a great number of poor small
agricultural producers who continue to rely on the production of less profitable, small-scale crops such as
sugarcane and corn. Poverty levels in several districts of the three departments are as high as that
observed in the poorest regions of the country. This is particularly true for some peri-urban areas near
Encarnaci6n (Itapuia), San Patricio, Santa Rosa and Santa Maria (Misiones) and in all rural districts (see
tables below).
Comparative Population and Poverty Indicators
Area     Population  Population Rural  Poverty      Households    Total population
(Km2)   (2000)      Growth  Population  Headcount rate with 2 or  with 2 or more NBI
rate    (2000)    (1998)         more NBI      (1992)
(1992)
Paraguay         406,752  5,496,450    2.7%     45.5%        33.7%       30.9%          1,270,496
North Region                                                  61.5%
Central Region                                                44.5%
Southern Region
Itapua            16,525    490,969   3.69%     66.3%        36.7%       33.4%          125,278
Misiones     _    9,556     1003851   1.400/%   49.2%        38.3%       36.90/o        33,667
Jieembuca         12,147     88,285   0.10%     52.9%        36.5%       43.7%          30,816
Poverty related problems are further affected by recent patterns of migration. For example, in Neembucui,
due to the poor performance of the agricultural sector, there has been a steady rural-urban migration. As a
result, there has been an increasing number of female headed households. In Neembucui, one-fifth of the
households are female-headed, 90 percent of whom are in urban areas. In addition to the rural-urban
migration patterns within the departments of Itapuia, Misiones, and NReembucui, poor families from other
regions are attracted to the possibility of finding improved living conditions, particularly in the urban area
surrounding the city of Encarnaci6n in the department of Itapua which has benefited from the
development of the Yacryeta hydro-electric dam. Many of these families have relocated in areas lacking
community infrastructure, productive activities and employment opportunities.



Poverty Rates for Selected Departments and
Districts in Itapuia, Misiones and Neembucu (1997/8)
DepartmenttDistrict                    Poverty Rate
(°/)
National                                  34.4
Ihapsa                                    36.8
San Pedro del Parana                     50.6
Mayor Otafio                             50.1
Yatytay                                  49.6
Misiones                                  38.3
San Patricio                             52.8
Santa Maria                              48.4
Santa Rosa                               47.1
Seembuc,u                                 36.5
Paso de Patria                           52.8
Cerrito                                 52.5
Humaita                                 49.8
Source: DGEEC (2000), Indicadores BAsicos para Focalizar el Gasto Social en Paraguay
Institutional Capacity
The increased demands placed on local institutions, such as municipalities, to address the needs of
growing communities are stretching existing capacities, considered to be weak. This situation is further
aggravated by the lack of a framework for how the respective roles and responsibilities of the different
layers of government are to be implemented. A new law on decentralization is being drafted and, while
the Constitution introduced a new intermediate tier of government in the form of 17 departments, with
directly elected departmental councils and departmental governors and autonomous municipal
governments (217), their powers, responsibilities and financing are still vaguely defined. The central
government continues to control a large percentage of the resources and local institutions remain weak in
their capacity to design and manage local development programs. In fact, of total government
expenditures, central government expenditures represent over 90 percent, while subnational level
expenditures represent about 6 percent of the total.
There are wide variations in the resources available at the local level. The Department of Itapuia, the
largest and richest of the three departments, comprising 29 districts (municipalities), had an annual
revenue equivalent to US$ 14 per inhabitant in 1998. In turn, Misiones (10 districts) and NReembucui (16
districts) had revenues equivalent to only US$ 11 and US$ 9 per inhabitant, respectively. Furthermore, in
the poorest districts, the annual revenue did not surpass US$ 2 per inhabitant, while the district of
Encarnacion (Itapuia's capital city) had an estimated revenue of US$ 52 per inhabitant. In the near future,
some of these districts are schedule to start receiving substantial royalties from the sale of electricity from
the Yacyreta hydroelectric plant which would increase their revenues significantly. Nevertheless, most of
these municipalities (with the exception of some of the departmental capitals) have no qualified staff,
technical capacity or experience in managing local government and related services. Thus increased
access to resources for local institutions, improved inter-institutional coordination and improved capacity
for poverty alleviation and community development will be particularly critical.
Government Strategy
Paraguay faces many challenges. Meager economic growth, deterioration in the external accounts,
negative terms of trade, depressed domestic demand, slow progress in structural reforms and
modernization of the State among other issues have contributed to the economic and social situation.
-6-



Political instability has been another factor weakening the policy-making environment. Nevertheless, the
current administration is striving, with encouraging results thus far, to improve public finances and to
develop sustainable economic and social development policies. Key to these efforts are macroeconomic
policies aimed at fiscal discipline. In addition to macroeconomic targets, strengthening democratic
institutions, increasing accountability and developing a poverty reduction strategy represent a daunting
challenge.
Since the early 1990s, the Government has implemented several poverty alleviation related programs.
Most of these initiatives were implemented by different government agencies, with little coordination
among them and without a monitoring system that would allow to assess the results and impact of these
programs. Recently, the Government has taken the initiative of preparing a poverty reduction strategy
even though Paraguay is not part of the group of countries benefiting from the Highly Indebted and Poor
Countries Initiative. The Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria de Acci6n Social, SAS) is in charge of
preparing the strategy with the assistance of the Bank and UNDP. The strategy focuses on rural poverty
and strengthening economic growth.
There are several institutions and programs involved in this process, briefly described below:
* The Secretaria de Acci6n Social (SAS), under the President's Office, has the mandate of
coordinating the development, implementation and monitoring of the Government's poverty alleviation
strategy. SAS can directly implement poverty alleviation-related activities or establish agreements with
other agencies to transfer resources for poverty alleviation programs and to collaborate with them in the
design, implementation and monitoring of these programs. Since its establishment in 1997, SAS has been
responsible for the implementation of three poverty alleviation programs:
(i) PROPAIS, a social fund with the support of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). From
January 1997 to February 2001, PROPAIS financed about 580 sub-Projects (US$ 26.9 million).
Currently, the Government and IDB are preparing a follow up program, for an estimated US$ 30
million that would support social sub-Projects in small rural and urban communities (less than 5000
people) and slum upgrading (Mejoramiento de Barrios) in large cities. While the proposed Project
would support community development activities (water and sanitation, community infrastructure,
training, etc.), it would not provide assistance for income generating sub-Projects.
(ii) Programa de Atenci6n Integral al Nino y Adolescente Trabajador de la Calle (US$ 8 million IDB
grant). This program, completed in 2001, provided support to street children.
(iii) Sistema de Capacitaci6n en Gesti6n y Proyectos Sociales (US$ 0.7 million). This program
established a monitoring unit capable of providing follow-up to poverty alleviation Projects and
technical assistance to implementing units.
The Secretaria Tecnica de Planifkcaci6n (Technical Planning Secretariat, STP), under the
President's Office, provides technical advice on the coordination and planning of investment and
development programs, such as the Social and Economic Strategic Plan (Plan Estrategico Economico y
Social). Two of STP's main priorities are institutional strengthening and the promotion of sustainable
development with participatory and decentralized planning. STP has made an important effort to
systematize and coordinate international cooperation and has developed a regional planning approach to
coordinate development efforts.
* Secretaria de la Mujer. The Women's Secretariat (SM), established in 1992, has programs targeted at
advancing women's rights and improving women's quality of life and opportunities. SM has five main
-7-



programs: (i) social participation (Red de Centros de Iniciativas y Desarrollo para la Mujer), a program
that supports networking and women leaders' participation in public decision-making processes; (ii)
institutional strengthening and training on gender issues and equality for departmental and municipal
government officials; (iii) research on gender issues and poverty; (iv) social services aimed at providing
social and financial help to women in need; and (v) Social Investment Fund that supports small social
infrastructure and income generating Projects for women's groups.
* Ofiondivepa, Poverty Alleviation Program. This program, established in November 1999 under the
Ministry of Labor and Justice, seeks to fight poverty by increasing the planning capacity of local
governments and strengthening democratic institutions. The program supports social infrastructure
Projects (education, health) and some productive (income generating) activities. Activities are focused on
districts with extreme poverty (based on NBI), including Concepci6n, Caaguazu, Neembucu and Chaco,
among others.
* Direccion de Benefcencia y Ayuda Social (DIBEN). The Social Welfare Office has three main
programs: (i) human development; (ii) social action, and (iii) emergency. These social programs provide
financial help to vulnerable groups including among others, street children, the elderly, and people
affected by natural disasters. Their coverage is small and constrained by resource availability. In year
2000, total budget for all programs country-wide was less than US$ 900,000.
* Rural Investment Pilot. This pilot is being carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture under the
World Bank supported Natural Resources Management Project. The pilot, launched in November 1996,
has the objectives of: (i) increasing the income of rural poor families; (ii) increasing productivity, and
(iii) creating employment opportunities for the rural poor by developing sustainable natural resources
management strategies and supporting income generating sub-Projects. The pilot targeted poor rural
households in the Departments of Caazapa, Caaguazui and Cordillera. Despite some significant delays in
its implementation, the pilot has successfully supported about 325 sub-Projects (US$4.2 million). The
initial allocation of US$5 million to the pilot has been increased by an additional US$7.0 million to
expand its coverage from the current three departments to nine (including Itapiia).
C. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project
Many of the issues facing the country have their roots in Paraguay's political history. In 1989, Paraguay
emerged from a 35-year dictatorship and it is still in the process of consolidating a democratic system.
Democratic institutions are weak as the political system moves from a one party system shaped by
clientelistic relationships and local "bosses". Local govermments lack technical capacities and have little
power in terms of decision making and budget allocations. Civil society confidence in the Government
and national institutions is low. According to a recent survey, politicians, the judicial system, the armed
forces, and the Government are less trusted than other types of organizations such as the Catholic Church,
unions and peasant organizations. Strengthening democratic institutions and reducing corruption are seen
by the population as key issues to be resolved for the development of the country and the implementation
of a poverty reduction strategy.
The lack of trust in the Government and the political system reflects the absence of good governance.
Among other things, this situation has led to a lack of a common vision and coordination regarding
poverty programs and policies. There are numerous small programs which are managed by different
agencies with little coordination among them and subject to clientelism. The targeting of these programs
for the poor tends not to be very good. Furthermore, existing data suggest that allocation of resources for
poverty alleviation and social programs is influenced by partisan politics.
-8-



In general, poverty alleviation and local development Projects have not strengthened state-civil society
relationships or collaboration. Partnerships between civil society organizations (CSOs) and various levels
of government (central and local) is improving only slowly. The collaboration has taken place primarily
at the Project level, with CSOs providing services to beneficiaries of government programs. These
experiences, although limited, have legitimized the role of CSOs as efficient service providers.
The Government is moving in the right direction and the proposed Project will assist in that process. The
Govermment is taking steps to improve its coordination of social policies and programs. The Secretaria de
Accion Social was created to improve the allocation and effectiveness of public programs targeted to the
poor. However, there still is much to be done in terms of clearly identifying the specific responsibilities of
each agency. In this regard, because SAS and STP deal in part with similar issues, it will be essential to
clearly identify the specific responsibilities of each agency. Most poverty alleviation related programs
implemented by the government have focused on issues related to lack of income, access to services
(social infrastructure), and welfare of marginal groups. To date, some progress has been made in
developing a more participatory approach to poverty alleviation that would link issues related to material
deprivation and access to markets and services with issues related to the lack of participation and
exclusion of vulnerable and marginal groups (based on gender, age, or ethnic identity). In the preparation
of the poverty reduction strategy, SAS conducted public consultations and the Government are just
beginning to get increase consultation and participation.
Due to the institutional constraints in Paraguay, the need to develop the capacity of local level
governments (department and municipal) is a priority and thus, increasing the capacity and
responsibilities of institutions at the local level should be given prominence. Moreover, in the context of
Paraguay, it is critically important to ensure appropriate check an balances among stakeholders and the
utmost of transparency in decision-making, as well as to limit the degree of discretion by any one actor.
The proposed Project would address these issues by: (i) developing and strengthening local level
participatory institutional arrangements and delivery mechanisms for implementing community driven
development activities; (ii) establishing transparent mechanisms for the identification, selection and
monitoring of community development activities, including clear targeting and eligibility criteria, public
records of the selection process, participatory monitoring, and independent technical auditing of processes
and results; and (iii) providing financial support for community development activities aimed at reducing
poverty and social exclusion. As such, the Project would address the institutional constraints, including
the lack of coordination among different programs, and the issue of the sustainability of poverty
alleviation activities. It will do so on a pilot basis so that there is learning before scaling up.



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative   % of        Bank-       % of Bank-
Component             Sector        Costs      Total      financing     financing
(US$M)                 (US$M)
1. Community         Community Action    8.56       76.6       6.78          75.3
Development Sub-      Program
Projects
2. Capacity Building and System Reform &  0.67       6.0        0.60         6.7
Institutional Strengthening  Capacity Building
3. Project Administration, Institutional  1.95       17.4       1.62         18.0
Monitoring and Evaluation Development
(including front-end fee)
Total Project Costs             J    11.18   |  100.0  I   9.00          100.0
Total Financing                    11.18       100.0      9.00         100.0
Required                  I
The World Bank-Republic of Paraguay 88.56%-11.44% (net of taxes) cost-sharing arrangement proposed
for this Project is consistent with the 3-year rolling-average of 60%-40% at the present level of the Bank's
Paraguayan portfolio, in accordance with Operational Policy (OP) 6.30 and Bank Procedure (BP) 6.30.
The Project comprises the following components:
Communitv Development Sub-Projects. This component will finance small scale demand-driven sub-
Projects prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries. Sub-Projects would include income
generation sub-Projects including agricultural diversification (eg, raising of pigs, chickens, flowers),
small enterprises, artisan workshops, eco-tourism, services such as laundries, processing facilities,
community markets, and the like, as well as community development sub-Projects for activities that would
complement productive investments such as child care facilities, community centers, child/youth
development, among others.
Sub-Projects would be identified by the communities and prepared by them with the input of technical
advisors who will be contracted as needed by the beneficiary groups. Sub-Project proposals up to US$
15,000 would be submitted to the Local Committees (LCs), which would verify beneficiary and sub-
Project eligibility criteria, review the technical merits of the proposals (with the technical support of the
Project Monitoring and Coordination Unit, PCU) and approve them. Sub-Project proposals above US$
15,000 up to the maximum allowable of US$ 35,000, would be sent to a Departmental Committee (DC),
which will assess (with the technical assistance of the PCU) and approve the selected sub-Projects (see
subsequent sections for more details on implementation mechanisms).  Besides proposals from
community groups, participating municipalities would also be eligible, on a very limited scale as a pilot,
to present sub-Project proposals for consideration, meeting the same criteria.
This component would also finance technical assistance for sub-Project identification, preparation and
implementation. Technical assistance (TA) to beneficiaries would be provided throughout the Project
cycle up to a maximum average amount equivalent to 20 percent of total Project costs. Pre-investment
-10-



TA would finance sub-Project preparation up to US$ 300. For approved sub-Projects, related technical
assistance would be earmarked as a distinct expenditure category and financial resources would be made
available to beneficiaries, with the prior technical and administrative approval of their individual requests
by the Project Coordination Unit to ensure quality and observance of applicable procurement rules.
Alternatively, technical assistance could be procured directly under well-defined criteria, for example, to
spur and support demand through a structured effort, or to procure assistance for specific sub-Projects
requiring more specialized technical assistance services.
Capacity Buildin  and Institutional Development. This component is designed to facilitate Project
implementation by strengthening local communities capacity to design and implement community
development activities and to facilitate their participation in overall Project implementation. It will
finance support services, including technical assistance (pre-investment for non-organized groups),
training and organizational development, and the implementation of a participatory monitoring and
evaluation system.
Proiect Management, Monitorin-a and Evaluation. The Project will support the establishment of a
centralized Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to coordinate technical and administrative aspects, oversee
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and to carry out specialized studies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
Due to its pilot character and limited geographic coverage, the proposed Project tests participatory and
decentralized procedures for implementing socially inclusive community development and poverty
alleviation activities in the selected departments, including the establishment of partnerships with local
governments and civil society. In this context, the Project would contribute to strengthen coordination
among different agencies and, particularly, to establish partnerships with local governments.
3. Benefits and target population:
The total target population consists of about 32,000 urban and rural poor and vulnerable households in the
departments of Itapuia, Misiones and Neembucui. In the rural areas of these three departments, most of the
poor rural households are smallholders (less than 10 Ha) who combine on and off-farm agricultural and
nonagricultural activities. In urban and peri-urban areas, particularly in Encamaci6n and other mid-sized
towns, these households generate income from seasonal work mostly in the informal sector and services.
Out of this total population, the Project is expected to assist at least 3,700 poor and vulnerable families,
comprising approximately 18,500 direct beneficiaries. The Project would also contribute to strengthening
poor and vulnerable communities in the selected departments. It is expected that at least 150 new groups
will be established and receive organizational and technical assistance. Also, all 55 municipalities and at
least 50 community organizations will receive technical assistance in community development Project
design and implementation, thus, contributing to an increase in the social capital of the participating
communities.
While the Project is demand-based and all eligible populations could access the Project, geographic
targeting of eligible communities will be used to identify priority areas for further institutional and
organizational development assistance to ensure that vulnerable non-organized groups and municipalities
with scarce resources have a fair opportunity to access Project resources. Potential beneficiaries will be
screened to ensure that they meet eligibility criteria based on easily observable indicators that reflect
unsatisfied basic needs (housing, water and sanitation), productive assets, and household vulnerability
(gender, ethnicity, age), according to the targeting and eligibility criteria set in the Operational Manual.
-11-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period
The Project is expected to be implemented over a period of four years.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Institutional arrangements have been designed to strengthen the involvement of local communities in
Project implementation and to develop SAS's capacity to work and collaborate with local governments
and civil society organizations in establishing partnerships for implementing poverty alleviation and
socially inclusive programs. The institutional arrangements of the Project are based on three principles:
(i) highly participatory mechanisms to ensure that local level institutions, private sector, civil society
organizations and government agencies collaborate; (ii) decentralized, bottom-up and transparent decision
making through the establishment of Local Committees (LCs) and Departmental Committees (DCs); and
(iii) strengthening of local institutions and development of the skills required for identifying, planning
and implementing socially inclusive community driven development at the local level.  The
implementation arrangements are also expected to reinforce collaboration and cooperation with
complementary development efforts so that the participating groups could also benefit from other
assistance as appropriate.
SAS will be the executing agency and will implement the Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual. Presentation of the final version of the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank will be a
condition of effectiveness. Implementation would be guided by annual operating plans (POAs) that
would be submitted to the Bank for its no-objection by October 15th of each year.
Specific responsibility for Project coordination and implementation will lie with the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), under SAS's Project Coordination Directorate which has the responsibility of implementing
other multilateral and international cooperation Projects. The PCU will comprise a Technical Unit (UT)
and an Administrative Unit (UA) that would coordinate the technical and administrative aspects of the
Project and oversee implementation decentralized to local institutions. The PCU will be headed by a
Project Coordinator and staffed with a small core team of Specialists and a procurement expert who will
oversee Project implementation, and provide technical assistance to the Local Committees, Departmental
Committees and service providers. There will be five Community Development Agents, decentralized to
the departments, who will promote Project activities and follow-up Project implementation with Project
beneficiaries and civil society. All Project staff will be hired through a competitive process and given
contracts whose length will be consistent with implementation of the Project.
Inter-institutional agreements will be established with the Technical Planning Secretariat (STP), Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock, Women's Secretariat, Environment and Sustainable Development
Secretariat, Vice-Ministry of Youth, departmental (Gobernaciones) and municipal (Intendencias)
governments to ensure their collaboration in Project implementation and to enhance coordination among
different development efforts. The signed agreements will be part of the Operational Manual and a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Sub-Project Cycle
Sub-Projects will be prepared by beneficiary groups with the technical assistance of qualified providers.
Beneficiary groups will submit their proposals to Local Committees (LCs) or Departmental Committees
(DCs) (see below) which will review and approve sub-Project proposals twice a year based on the
eligibility criteria of the beneficiaries and the technical merits of the proposals (according to the criteria
-12-



established in the Operational Manual). The records of the sub-Projects received by the LCs and the DCs,
as well as the results of the sub-Project assessment, would be public, and the results of the sub-Projects
bids would be announced in public meetings.
Funds for the selected sub-Projects will be channeled directly to the beneficiary groups which will be
responsible for the implementation of the sub-Project. Groups will select a technical assistance provider
and will enter into an agreement for the provision of technical assistance during Project implementation.
Local Committees (LCs) consisting of nine people representing the Church (1), local universities and/or
schools (1), civil society organizations (3), local and departmental councils (2), a representative from the
STP (1), and a community development agent (from the PCU) would be established. These committees
will be responsible for assessing eligibility criteria (of sub-Projects and beneficiaries), reviewing and
approving sub-Project proposals up to US$ 15,000 (an estimated 80% of total sub-Projects). Also, the
LCs will be responsible for meeting twice a year to review Project implementation progress and to
provide a public account of their work. LCs will be established in all districts of more than 10,000
inhabitants and for clusters of districts (no more than four) with less than 10,000 inhabitants, based on
proximity and population criteria. The LCs will meet and take decisions with at least a quorum of 50
percent of its members (5 people) and decisions will be taken by simple majority of those attending the
meetings. The absence of any particular LC member would not preclude the remaining members from
making decisions and approving sub-Projects.
In each of the three departments, a Departmental Committee (DC) composed by representatives of the
Church (1), civil society organizations (2), local universities (1), departmental government representatives
(3), a representative of STP (1) and a member of the PCU would be established. The DC will review and
approve sub-Projects between US$ 15,000 and US$ 35,000, the maximum allowable. As the LCs, the
DCs will also meeting twice a year to review Project implementation progress and to provide a public
account of their work.
Since Local Councils at the municipal level are not fully operational in all municipalities, the LCs could
be established initially without representation of the Local Councils, provided that they would join the
LCs once they have been elected and become operative.
Flow offunds.
The Project will use the procedures in place for the operation of special accounts in Paraguay. The initial
advance will be disbursed by the Bank to the Special Account held Central Bank of Paraguay (Banco
Central de Paraguay, BCP) and managed in conformity with Bank's policies. SAS will open an
administrative account in the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF). The BCP will transfer Project funds to
the SAS's account in the BNF. The PCU will periodically as needed submit a request for funds to SAS.
SAS will draw funds from the account to carry out the payments approved by the PCU. Funds to the
beneficiaries will be transferred by SAS to a commercial banking account to be opened by the beneficiary
group either on the BNF or a local bank; this transfer would be done within 15 days of requesting
payment.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
A monitoring and results assessment function would be established within the PCU and a comprehensive
Project Management Information System (MIS) would be developed for Project implementation. This
MIS would complement the existing system (SIFEM), developed by SAS with the assistance of CEPAL
to support monitoring, financial management and administrative management tasks of SAS-managed
-13-



Projects. The system will also provide information for STP's geographic information system. It would
allow recording of physical and financial information related to Project implementation for financial
management purposes and tracking of Project performance. Semi-annual progress reports to be submitted
to the Bank, will provide an update of the status of the various indicators for Project implementation -
physical and financial- and development performance. In addition, SAS would prepare and submit an
Annual Operating Plan for Bank review by October 156 each year, including documentation evidencing
sufficient allocation of funds in its budget to cover for the need of counterpart funds raised by planned
activities. As part of regular Project supervision activities, joint SAS/Bank annual reviews would be
undertaken, including an in-depth Mid-Term Review. External auditing of sub-Project implementation
would be carried out. Independent evaluation of the Project's socioeconomic impact would be conducted
through baseline and final evaluation studies. In addition, annual beneficiary assessments will be carried
out to ensure that beneficiaries' perspectives are satisfactorily reflected in the monitoring of Project
activities.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a) Yacyreta area only: Initially, the Project was conceived to address continuing weaknesses in the
capacity of local governments in the Encarnaci6n area to manage and address the development needs of
its local population. This area had become a magnet for in-migration and also had become an area of high
social tensions reflecting the growing disparity between the populations affected by the involuntary
resettlement associated with the YacyretA hydro-electric dam and those not affected by resettlement. In
an effort to provide support to the wider population, a targeted community development Project was seen
as a possible remedy. However, this idea was rejected since: (i) there are needs that go beyond than just
that area; and (ii) there are existing programs addressing the specific needs of the people affected by the
Yacyreta dam and a new program could generate confusion among institutions and beneficiaries. Rather,
the Government wanted to develop a broader approach to poverty alleviation.
b) Nation-wide Project versus selected departments: The idea of developing a nation-wide poverty
alleviation program was appealing given the very large need in the country but this option was rejected
because there was little experience and the track record with other operations in Paraguay has been poor.
A pilot Project was preferred to allow more flexibility to test new approaches and to learn from a limited
undertaking. Also, for budgetary reasons, the Government preferred to concentrate only on a few
departments. The three departments were finally selected because they have a significant number of
urban and rural poor and they experience sharp inequities and problems in resource allocation. Moreover,
these departments will start to receive royalties from the sale of electricity produced by Yacyreta that will
significantly increase their budgets. Thus, they are a priority from the point of view of building capacity
to manage development Projects and the allocation of resources. These departments had already
participated in the USAID-financed program of institutional building and thus there was a base on which
to build.
c) Social fund type Project:  Given that there were other on-going development Projects with
complementary objectives, an option was to combine forces, for example, with a possible second stage of
PROPAIS being prepared by the IDB. However, since the goal was to test poverty alleviation with an
emphasis on income-generating activities, it was considered too ambitious at this stage to undertake all of
the innovations being tested under the proposed Project with the approach already established under
PROPAIS. This is particularly the case with respect to bottom-up participatory approaches that address
cross-sectoral issues and foster collaboration at the local level between civil society organizations, local
-14-



governments and central government agencies. To the extend that there is follow-up, it would be feasible
to consider consolidation.
d) Only rural/urban Project: Similarly, the choices of targeting the operation either in rural or urban
areas was also considered. The idea of focusing only in rural areas was discarded because the 13ank
already is supporting another pilot program under the Natural Resources Management Project,
(Loan3708-PA) that will provide lessons regarding the impact and sustainability of rural poverty
alleviation activities through agricultural based investments. Similarly, the idea of focusing only in urban
areas was rejected because outside of Asunci6n, Encarnaci6n and Ciudad del Este, most of the poor are
rural. Hence, a blend approach was finally agreed, addressing both rural and urban populations and
testing actions supporting both populations. This is particularly relevant considering that many of the
rural poor depend considerably on non-farm incomes. Again, consolidation could be considered once the
lessons can be derived from this pilot.
e) Financing only productive investments or social infrastructure: The possibility of supporting only
productive investments or social infrastructure was analyzed and abandoned because the experience of
other agencies implementing those types of activities (PROPAIS, Child and Youth at Risk, Women's
Secretariat) indicates the importance of developing a more integral approach that will: (i) provide
organizational and technical assistance to ensure the development of social capital and long term
sustainability of the investments (productive or infrastructure); (ii) link productive investments (income
generating activities) with broader community development and social inclusion objectives; and (iii)
ensure the ownership and capacity of the community to sustain the activities and infrastructure that will
be financed.
f) Targeting beneficiaries: Demand driven projects tend to favor pre-existing groups and can thus
exclude the most vulnerable and excluded social groups. To avoid this, it was decided to combine
geographic targeting with household characteristics to ensure equitable access-particularly for women,
children/youths, and indigenous peoples. Also, not previously established groups could have access to
avoid a concentration of resources to pre-existing groups.
g) Institutional and implementation arrangements: The level of decentralization was discussed with the
central authorities as well as with the local governments and civil society organizations. Most local
community organizations and local governments, as well as central agencies, have little capacity and
experience in implementing participatory, decentralized, community driven development initiatives.
Since the Project seeks to develop the capacity of these institutions and considering the need to ensure
transparency and social accountability (as well as to minimize patronage at the local level), it was agreed
that the Project would be implemented in a decentralized manner, with a high degree of participation of
local communities and governments, while at the same time with a central unit that would oversee
implementation, coordinate Project monitoring and evaluation and ensure consistency.



2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                         (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Rural poverty alleviation through small  Natural Resources Management Project. S  S
scale productive investments      Rural Investment Pilot. Loan 3708-PA
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation  Fourth Rural Water Supply and   S             S
Sanitation
Health Care                       Maternal Health/Child Development  S           S
Other development agencies
Community infrastructure (education,  IDB-financed Social Fund PROPAIS
health, water and sanitation) and
productive Projects.
Social assistance to children and youth at  IDB grant
risk                                                              I             I __
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
Within Paraguay:
Paraguay has limited experience with large-scale programs of assistance to the poor. Most social
programs are not well targeted and the Government has only recently initiated a dialogue with different
stakeholders to develop a poverty reduction strategy that will guide future poverty-targeted interventions.
Nevertheless, the Government has accumulated some experience through the ongoing Rural Investment
Pilot (financed by the World Bank) executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and the Social
Fund PROPAIS (IDB-financed) executed by SAS.
These Projects have provided important lessons reflected in the design of the proposed Project. First,
these Projects strongly suggest the need for a decentralized demand-driven approach to provide technical
and financial assistance to the poor. Second, the experience gained with these Projects has highlighted
the need for transparent and objective eligibility and targeting criteria to ensure that funds go to the
intended beneficiaries (and all eligible groups have equal access to Project benefits), minimizing potential
leakage and political manipulation of the funds. Third, and related to the above, experience indicates that
participation and social auditing mechanisms are crucial. Participation in Project implementation is
important but participatory monitoring (social auditing) is essential to ensure accountability, minimize
clientelism and proper use of funds. A final lesson is the need for continuing provision of technical and
organizational assistance to ensure the development of social capital and to improve the sustainability of
sub-Projects. Lack of technical assistance and/or focusing it only on technical issues leaving out
organizational development and administrative skills has hampered the sustainability of past investments.
To increase sustainability and to minimize the risk of failure, the proposed Project would provide
technical assistance (through qualified service providers) to local governments and community groups.
-16-



Bank-wide:
Many lessons have emerged from the experience of the Social Investment Funds (SIFs) in Latin America.
A recent retrospective shows that most SIFs have targeted their resources well to reach the poor, making a
significant contribution to poverty reduction and have proven to be effective in channeling external aid
and resources directly to the community level. Employment generation by SIFs, while modest in relation
to the labor force or the number of unemployed, has been significant in benefiting poor populations.
SIFs have also begun to have a meaningful impact on the operations of the social sector ministries as well
as on central water and sanitation entities. In addition, SIFs targeting techniques are being used by some
line ministries that are beginning to employ the cost controls, management information systems and
simplified procurement and payment systems used by SIFs. However, the long term sustainability of the
investments, as well as the ownership by the communities of the investments, has been questioned. While
social/community infrastructure is needed, it has been shown that sustainability increases when they are
associated with income generating activities and social capital development.
Besides these general lessons from SIFs, there are also lessons from poverty reduction Projects which
target rural populations. The most experience has been derived from the series of Rural Poverty
Alleviation Projects in Brazil's Northeast. The main lessons applicable to the proposed Project are in the
areas of decentralization, participation, and poverty targeting mechanisms.  Decentralization of
investment decision-making and implementation to community organizations ensures efficient program
implementation, and superior outcomes.  It was particularly important to reduce the extent of
intermediation-and associated administrative costs-between the central government and the
participating local groups. Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and
operation and maintenance of sub-Projects ensures that investments meet genuine community needs,
leads to cost savings, and increases community 'ownership' leading to improved sustainability of
investments. Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria can
foster transparency, minimize political interference and ensure that Project resources reach the poorest
areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The preparation process of the Project has generated keen interest by a large number of stakeholders.
This process triggered significant discussions within the Government and with civil society
representatives regarding the need for the Project, its characteristics, potential beneficiaries and
institutional and implementation arrangements. Initially when the Project was conceived only to assist
the Encarnaci6n area, it was not a clear priority for certain stakeholders within the Government and civil
society. However, as the consultation process progressed and recommendations made by the stakeholders
were incorporated in Project design, commitment began to grow. Further, after the Government decided
to change the counterpart from the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC) to SAS, it
became even clearer within the Government and for civil society stakeholders that the proposed Project
was part of a broader strategy to alleviate poverty.
Borrower commitment and ownership have further been demonstrated by the following:
a) The official request for a Japanese PHRD grant to assist the Government with the preparation of the
proposed Project.
b) Consultation and agreements reached with other government agencies (Secretaria Tecnica de
Planiflcaci6n, Secretaria de la Mujer, Medio Ambiente, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Vice-
Ministerio de la Juventud), and Departmental and Municipal governments regarding Project design,
implementation and institutional arrangements.
-17-



c) Consultation with civil society representatives in the three departments.
d) The Government's request to increase the loan amount to $9 million up from the initial amount of $ 5
million.
e) Indication from the Minister of Finance that counterpart funding for the proposed Project will be
available in and thereafter.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project:
Despite no lending since 1997, the Bank and the Government have been collaborating on a number of
important exercises, notably an intensive portfolio improvement program, the WBI-led effort on the
preparation of an anti-corruption program, and the recently completed ESW on poverty and the financial
sector. Further, the Bank is providing technical assistance along with UNPD for the preparation of the
country's Poverty Reduction Strategy building on the Bank's Poverty Assessment and technical support
provided under the MECOVI program to improve the collection and analysis of poverty data. Thus, the
Bank's support offers the Government an opportunity to test out new ways of alleviating poverty under
the proposed Project linked to the broader context. The Bank brings to this process considerable technical
insight and knowledge of poverty targeting and monitoring in Paraguay and elsewhere combined with
Project specific implementation experience. In addition, the Bank's support would contribute to the
development of partnerships between civil society and the government at the national and local levels, as
well as to increase the accountability of these operations.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
NPV= n/a; ERR = n/a (see Annex 4)
Given the demand-driven nature of the Project, whereby the specific investments to be supported would
be decided by communities during Project implementation, it is not possible to know a priori how
available resources will be allocated within the Community Development Sub-Project Component. Thus,
accurate ex ante estimation of aggregate economic efficiency measures and fiscal impact for the Project is
not feasible. Nevertheless, based on the results of diagnostic studies carried out as part of Project
preparation, nine models for the potentially most demanded productive sub-Projects were developed and
their individual rates of return estimated.
Analyses of the sample models were made assuming a ten-year sub-Project life cycle and in all cases the
estimated rates of return ranged from 18 to 34 percent, exceeding the opportunity cost of capital (10%),
and showed Benefit/Cost ratios larger than one (See Annex 4). The models used cover a wide range of
productive activities such as poultry and piglet production, and processing/marketing of fish fillets, as
well as initiatives targeted to vulnerable groups such as handicrafts (indigenous peoples), eco-tourism
(youth), and apparel production and local bakery (women). The investments analyzed benefit groups of 8
to 23 families and are capable of generating up to seven full time jobs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV= n/a; FRR = n/a (see Annex 4)
Using the same models as for the economic analysis, internal financial rates of return for the potentially
most demanded productive sub-Projects were calculated. Again, the analyses were made assuming a ten-
-18-



year sub-Project life cycle and, with the exception of one model, the rates of return exceeded the
opportunity cost of capital, with internal rates of return ranging from 4 to 23 percent. During
implementation, adequate returns from the proposed investments should be assured, as the Project would
finance only technically and financially sound proposals. In addition, Project design ensures that the sub-
Project are the best alternatives for the communities and that they are carried out in a cost-effective
manner. Recovery of the investments was mostly under two years, with half of the models analyzed
showing recovery periods under three years.
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal impact of the Project would initially be negative, as direct impacts on public revenue generation are
likely to be small. However, experience from similar Projects indicates that, in the long run, fiscal impact
of these types of investments may be expected to be positive due to the improved financial status of
beneficiaries and its effect on their purchasing power and expenditure patterns and, consequently, on
economic activity and fiscal revenues. Most importantly, it is expected that there will also be budgetary
savings associated to the decreased need for local govermnents to provide economic support to the
beneficiary population.
3. Technical:
The Project's rationale and main components are focused, mutually reinforcing and technically sound.
Project design reflects international best-practices and lessons learned with other Projects in Paraguay.
The Project envisions an integrated approach to promote the inclusion of poor and vulnerable groups. It
contemplates strong technical assistance, training and organizational development to ensure that the direct
beneficiaries and the supporting institutions (local government, civil society organizations and service
providers) will acquire the skills required to develop and sustain community development investments.
This assessment is based on the following elements:
a)   Project design is simple, Project components reinforce each other and the objectives and goals
have been clearly defined and verifiable indicators to monitor performance have been
established.
b)   A typology of the sub-Projects to be financed under the Community Development Fund has
been developed based on a participatory community diagnostic, and a sample of sub-Projects
has been assessed (including technical, economic, financial and environmental criteria) based
on actual (costs and technical) data gathered during Project preparation.
c)   All sub-Projects will be prepared with the assistance of qualified technical assistance providers
and subject to a technical screening, as defined in the Operations Manual (OM).
d)   Training and institutional strengthening support will be provided to beneficiaries to ensure they
develop and/or strengthen their technical, administrative and organizational skills.
e)   Participatory mechanisms have been integrated in Project design to ensure participation of
beneficiaries, civil society and local government representatives during Project implementation.
4. Institutional:
The Project will face important institutional challenges. As indicated, community groups and local
governments (departmental and municipal) have little capacity and experience implementing poverty
alleviation and community development activities. Experience working in a more decentralized,
-19-



participatory, approach is emerging but still has to be mainstreamed. Project design thus has included a
strong technical assistance and a participatory monitoring system. In particular, given the weak capacity
of local institutions and the lack of partnerships between civil society and government agencies, the
institutional arrangements and planned Project activities seek to: (i) ensure that key Project activities
(including procurement and disbursement) can be sustained by the Project unit; (ii) strengthen and
develop the capacity of local institutions and governments to facilitate their participation in the Project;
and (iii) establish clear inter-institutional agreements to ensure coordination and inter-agency
collaboration. Nevertheless, due to the little experience in Paraguay with these issues, it will be essential
to reassess and fine-tune when necessary.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Social Action Secretariat (SAS), the executing agency, has a very strong top management team and
has demonstrated its capacity under the IDB-financed PROPAIS Project and other international
cooperation programs. SAS was created (by decree 9235) in 1995 to improve the allocation and
effectiveness of public programs targeted to the poor. It is under the Office of the Presidency and its
Executive Secretary has rank of Minister.  SAS has three main divisions dealing with Project
management, training and human development, and administration. The Project management division
deals with the preparation of Projects together with the organizations which will actually implement them
(design function); the a priori evaluation of competing Projects in order to set funding priorities
(allocation function); and the follow up or supervision of the Projects (control function). The training and
human development division trains staff from other organizations involved in the Projects.
Specific agreements between SAS and other institutions (Secretaria T&cnica de Planificaci6n, Secretaria
de la Mujer, Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Viceministerio de la
Juventud, Gobernaciones and Intendencias) that would participate in Project implementation were drafted
during Project preparation and will be part of the Project's Operational Manual. These agreements
provide the framework for the execution of certain activities (including environmental screening,
technical assistance on gender and youth issues), the procedures required for sub-Project approval and
monitoring (including the input of sub-Project data into a geographic information system managed by
STP), all which will ensure compatibility with other development Projects in the area and consideration of
regional planning priorities.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be a small unit based in Asuncion under SAS, headed by a
Project Coordinator and staffed with financial, procurement, administrative and technical staff (as
established in the Operational Manual) all in numbers and with qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Bank, hired through a competitive process and given contracts whose length will be consistent with
implementation of the Project. The PCU staffed and fully operational will be condition of effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement:
All procurement will be done in accordance with the Bank' guidelines. A procurement capacity
assessment of the imnplementing agency was conducted in October 2001. The "Overall Procurement
Risk" was assessed as "HIGH". Even though SAS's administrative unit is adequately organized and
staffed to handle the present level and type of procurement activities, the unit could not assume the
additional work load generated by the project. Consequently, it was agreed that the Project unit would be
reinforced with a qualified Procurement Officer, an Accountant/FM officer, and an assistant, located
within SAS' s administrative unit, and partially supported by its established administrative structure. This
-20-



sub-unit will report to and coordinate directly with the PCU, maintain separate Project files, and will be
responsible for a full range of procurement management activities, including capacity building,
supervision, and quality control of all procurement financed by the project. The establishment of the
financial and procurement sub-unit will be a condition of effectiveness. A draft procurement plan for the
Project was reviewed during negotiations and the final procurement plan and project implementation plan
will be a condition of effectiveness.
The Project would finance the purchase of vehicles, computers, and miscellaneous office equipment
which would be done based on the estimated costs through National Competitive Bidding and shopping
procedures. The Loan would finance contracts with consulting firms following a Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) process, for information campaigns, technical assistance, studies and capacity building
for the beneficiary communities and municipal and central governments. The consulting services
required for the Project would be selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates, the
competitive process followed to select individual consultants would be described in further detail in the
Operational Manual.
The project will provide matching grants to legally constituted rural and urban community associations to
finance small scale productive sub-Projects, technical assistance and training for institutional
strengthening. Grants would be made in accordance with the selection procedures described in the
Operational Manual. A standard grant agreements acceptable to the Bank would be used to transfer grant
funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that would ensure adequate implementation.
Small works contracts would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified local contractors in response to a written
invitation.
Most beneficiary communities are located in remote areas and many have long-standing relationships
with technical assistance provider which operates exclusively in the area. In addition, the technical
assistance required by the beneficiaries for sub-Project design and implementation will be fairly standard
in nature, relatively simple (i.e. basic agricultural techniques and social organization models), and
estimated to cost at most US$ 6,000 equivalent per sub-Project. Consequently, it is recognized that it
would be impractical to require a competitive process in such cases and communities will be allowed to
select directly and indicate a technical assistance provider as part of their sub-Project proposal. However,
beneficiaries will be required to select technical assistance providers from a roster of approved NGOs and
firms whose qualifications will be have been carefully reviewed by the PCU. In addition, technical
assistance contracts will be based on standard TOR and consultant rates included in the Operating
Manual. These contracts, whose aggregate amount is estimated to total approximately US$1 million
equivalent, will be factored in the sub-Projects' cost and charged to the corresponding disbursement
category. In all other cases, the selection process will be managed by the PCU following an appropriate
QCBS method with the participation of the beneficiary community's elected body in the evaluating
committee.
4.4 Financial management:
A financial management assessment has been carried out by a Financial Management Officer, with
satisfactory findings, and approved by the Regional Financial Management Assessment Specialist. An
action plan has been agreed upon with the Government to ensure that the financial management system
will be fully operative for Project effectiveness. Details regarding disbursement arrangements are
described in Annex 6. The full assessment and its supporting documents are included in the list of Project
document on file (Annex 8).
-21-



5. Environmental:
Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Most Project activities are likely to have no negative environmental impact and most sub-Projects are
likely to either have neutral or positive environmental impacts.  Some subProjects (agricultural
productivity and small cottage industries) may pose minor environmental risks.  Appropriate
environmental screening criteria and procedures ("Procedimientos Ambientales para Determinar los
Impactos Ambientales de los Proyectos con Fondos Sociales", in Project files) for all sub-Projects have
been developed and found satisfactory by the Bank. Institutional arrangements have been agreed to
guarantee the participation of local or municipal environmental offices in the screening of all sub-
Projects. The criteria and procedures were applied to a set of Projects that have already been identified in
participating provinces and all Projects were found to be Category B according to Bank policies. The
criteria and procedures were also discussed with and approved by the Sub-secretary of Natural resources
and Environment in the Ministry of Environment, in charge of the EIA system in Paraguay. Appropriate
technical guidance will be provided to Projects to deal with sitting, construction techniques and
management of wastes as appropriate.
Technical assistance and participation of local agencies in the screening of Projects will be further
strengthened by training and environmental awareness programs implemented in parallel to the sub-
Projects.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
No EMP is required. Sub-Projects will be screened for potential environmental impacts. Most sub-
Projects are expected to have no negative environmental impact. If the environmental screening of sub-
Projects identifies potential environmental risks, specific sub-Project mitigation measures will be
required.
5.3 For Category A and B Projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:              October 2001
Date submitted to Infoshop                  I March 4, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Participatory diagnostics (PD) at the local level were carried out to identify potential sub-Projects. The
consultations included indigenous communities. (Summary reports of the consultations are available in
the Project files.) During the PDs, participants were consulted regarding the environmental aspects of the
proposed sub-Projects. Environmental concerns were discussed during these meetings, among other
issues, the participants understanding and perception of the potential environmental impacts of the sub-
Projects were analyzed and discussed.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the Project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
-22-



Although sub-Projects would be relatively small in nature, they will be subject to environmental
screening through procedures acceptable to the Bank, and according to Paraguayan law. When and if
necessary, appropriate measures to manage potential environmental risks would be developed for each
sub-Project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the Project objectives, and specify the Project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (see Annex 13) of the three selected departments was completed during Project
preparation. The focus of the social assessment was the identification of: (i) the main constraints faced
by the poor to access resources and government services as well as to participate in local decision
making; (ii) potential sub-Projects addressing the issues identified, and (iii) the preparation of a
participation plan for Project implementation. To this end, in each department a participatory diagnostic
was carried out in urban and local communities. As a result of the social assessment, a set of demand-
driven sub-Projects was identified for each department. Special emphasis was given to vulnerable groups
to ensure that women, indigenous groups and youth/children have access to the Project.
The analysis indicates that the main social issues the Project would face include: (i) high poverty rates
and lack of income generating activities for the poor; (ii) paternalistic social relations and weak
institutions that make the exercise of citizenship very difficult particularly for the poor; (iii) lack of
transparent rules and mechanisms for decision making and distribution of resources; (iv) political
pressures that impede institutional reforms and greater participation; (v) lack of incentives and
standardized procedures which facilitates corruption; and (vi) lack of state policy and clear government
strategy to improve access of the poor to services.
The main social development objectives of the proposed Project are: (i) decreasing social exclusion; (ii)
improving access of the poor to productive resources; (iii) institutional strengthening of local
governments and community organizations; (iv) increasing transparency and accountability of local
institutions; and (v) improving equity particularly for youth, women and indigenous groups in the Project
area.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the Project?
During Project preparation, relevant stakeholders were systematically consulted. Key stakeholders for the
Project include: (i) main government agencies implementing social development and poverty-related
programs; (ii) local (departmental and municipal) governments in the selected departments; (iii)
community based organizations (including campesino organizations, indigenous peoples organizations,
neighborhood organizations, women's groups); (iv) NGOs working on social development issues; (v)
potential Project beneficiaries in the area; and (vi) elected representatives of the selected departments.
Consultation took place through a systematic process throughout preparation. At the local level, more
that 30 communities were consulted during the preparation of the departmental diagnostics. Also, two
workshops with relevant stakeholders were held early during the preparation process. Finally, three
formal consultations (one in each department) took place after the draft Project document, including the
recommendations provided by the local communities, was prepared.  As a result of the consultation
process during Project preparation, the priorities of the local communities were identified, a sample of
sub-Projects was prepared and, a proposal for continuing stakeholder participation during implementation
and monitoring was discussed and included in Project design.
-23-



6.3 How does the Project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As indicated above, during preparation civil society organization were consulted and involved in the
identification of key issues and the design of Project instruments. During implementation, it is expected
that civil society organizations will participate in two levels: (i) in Project management (through the local
(LCs) and department (DCs) committees; and (ii) as technical assistance services providers.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the Project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements include two key features to ensure that the Project achieves its social
development outcomes. First, participation of civil society and local governments in LCs and DCs which
would be responsible for reviewing the eligibility of sub-Project proposal approving them and channeling
them to SAS. This would ensure local level ownership of the Project and a social control over the
administration of the Project.  Second, the monitoring and evaluation system would include a
participatory beneficiary assessment component that will provide regular feedback to Project management
to ensure that the social development objectives are being pursued and achieved.
6.5 How will the Project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The M&E system includes specific indicators to track performance of social development outcomes.
Participatory monitoring mechanisms would allow that the beneficiaries and civil society would have
periodic opportunity to review progress and to give their assessment of the progress made regarding
social development outcomes.
Participatory Approach:
The Project includes two different mechanisms to ensure beneficiaries and civil society participation in
the Project. First, through the LCs and the DCs, representatives of the beneficiaries, civil society and
local governments will participate in the screening of the sub-Projects, checking eligibility criteria (of
Projects and beneficiaries), consistency with local development priorities and would recommend their
approval.
Second, through the participatory monitoring and evaluation system, beneficiaries and representatives of
civil society would have chance to check progress in Project implementation as well as monitor outcomes,
outputs and impacts.
-24-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the Project?
_ Policy                                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)   Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)          No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                           No
.Pest Management (OP 4.09)                             No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                         No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                          No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                     No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*  No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the Project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A partial environmental review was completed during preparation focusing on a selected sample of sub-
Projects. Screening criteria and procedures (see above) for all sub-Projects were developed and specific
institutional arrangements made to ensure the participation of local or municipal environmental offices in
the screening of all sub-Projects. Appropriate technical guidance would be provided to Projects to deal
with siting, construction techniques and management of waste as appropriate. Technical assistance and
participation of local agencies in the screening of Projects will further be strengthened by training and
environmental awareness programs implemented in parallel to the sub-Projects.
Indigenous Peoples:
There are 17 different indigenous peoples in Paraguay which represent less than 1 percent of the total
population. Different estimates suggest that the indigenous population is about 75,000, concentrated in
the dry occidental region of the country known as "El Chaco". In the south-eastern region of the country,
there is less than one third of the indigenous population or approximately 25,000. All of them from the
Tupi-Guarani linguistic family (Ache, Chiripa-guarani, Mbya-gurani, Pai-Tavytera, Guarani
occidentales/guarayos, Guarani-nandeva/tapiete).
In Itapuia, Misiones and Neembucu, the indigenous population is reduced to a few communities, mostly in
Itapuia and one in Misiones totaling less than 350 individuals. A significant proportion of this population
is urban or peri-urban (settled in the vicinity of Encarnaci6n). Another group is settled in a rural
community that was established as part of the resettlement program of Yacyreta. The key social problems
affecting these communities have to do with: (i) lack of employment and/or income generating activities;
and (ii) lack of access to services.
Currently, the Bank-supported Natural Resources Management Project has an indigenous component that
is addressing land acquisition issues and providing support to facilitate indigenous peoples' access to
education and health services in the Project area (Itapuia and Alto Parana).
The proposed project would specifically target indigenous groups in the Project area. To this end, during
Project preparation consultation with indigenous representatives and communities were carried out to
assess their priorities and needs. At Project identification, representatives from the Instituto Nacional de
Desarrollo Indigena (INDI) were consulted to identify the potential indigenous beneficiaries in the
-25-



Project area. Later, during the preparation of the departmental diagnostic, specific workshops were held
with the participation of indigenous communities to identify their problems and priorities. Based on these
consultations, the Project developed a strategy that involves the inclusion of specific eligibility criteria to
favor the inclusion of indigenous groups, the provision of special assistance to formulate sub-Project
proposals and to participate in the Project and, participatory mechanisms that will ensure the
representation of indigenous peoples in the LCs in which they reside. Special funds would be used to
identify, prepare and submit sub-Projects. At the same time, the capacity building and institutional
strengthening component will support specific training and capacity building activities at the
local/municipal level to ensure indigenous peoples' organizations are better equipped to participate in
decision making processes. During implementation, the PCU will ensure coordination with INDI.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As a pilot program, the Project's sustainability will be assessed as part of the learning necessary to
determine any follow-up activity. Sustainability depends on: (i) the likelihood of the sub-Projects being
successful, (ii) community participation and the functioning of the LCs and DCs, and (iii) the capacity of
SAS to absorb and replicate the lessons. It is expected the Project should be sustainable, as it combines
specific activities to improve the technical design of the sub-Projects and to strengthen social capital and
community involvement. If successful, the Project would contribute to increased capacity to systematize,
analyze and learn from Project implementation and results on the ground. Regarding sub-Project
sustainability, the Project is based on demand and beneficiary participation in the selection and design of
the sub-Projects. Also, technical assistance would be provided to beneficiary groups to help them to
organize, develop their technical skills required for the sub-Project, and strengthen their organizational
and administrative skills. The technical assistance provided would address a series of technical,
organizational and managerial issues that would increase the sustainability of the sub-Projects.
Sub-Projects should be financially viable based on the analysis carried out on typical investments.
Financial sustainability of likely sub-Projects was examined through sensitivity analysis. Three scenarios
were considered, including a 15 percent decrease in benefits due to lower product prices, a 15 percent
increase in production costs and a combined setting. Sub-Project sensitivity varies with the type of sub-
Project, with a general trend for the rural based models to be more sensitive to the adverse conditions. In
general, all the sub-Projects tended to show a marginally higher sensitivity to a decrease in product prices,
while all showed large sensitivity to the combined scenario, with only the handicrafts and irrigated
horticulture sub-Projects maintaining profitability under those extreme conditions.
With regards to community participation and the functioning of the LCs and DCs, the Project's
sustainability would be enhanced by the Project's approach which involves clear and transparent rules and
procedures to ensure fair participation of the different stakeholders, support to local organizations and
civil society and providing technical assistance to the LCs and DCs to perform their responsibilities. In
reference to the capacity of SAS to learn from the pilot, the Project supports a monitoring and evaluation
system and special studies that would allow the Project unit and SAS to systematize the information that
would be generated, analyze it, disseminate and discuss periodically with other government agencies,
local governments and civil the ongoing results and lessons emerging from the Project.
Nevertheless, there are factors that may hamper the Project's sustainability and eventual opportunities for
scaling up in the future. First, due to the ongoing fiscal austerity program, SAS might face budget
limitations that hamper its operational capabilities. Second, due to the existing socio-political problems
and the current lack of capacity at the local level the capacity building and participation process required
for full beneficiary participation and operation of the LCs and DCs may take longer than expected.
-26-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                         Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability of the       H                   Government counterparts are working closely
country puts at risk the approval of the               with elected representatives from the selected
Project by the Congress.                               departments and the relevant congress committees to
ensure they are well informed of the Project objectives,
relevance and support by local communities.
Govemment counterparts are developing a
participatory/consultative strategy that involves key civil
society stakeholders
SAS will not have enough          M                    SAS budget is being progressively mainstream
resources to sustain its operating costs               and made less dependant of extemal financing
independently from Projects financed
by intemational cooperation and
multilateral agencies
Lack of ownership of Project      M                   Technical support is being provided to SAS in
mechanisms and objectives with the                     order to advance with the preparation of the country's
Govemment                                             poverty reduction strategy.
The required decentralization to  S                   All relevant agencies and local governments are
local governments and civil society and               being consulted and involved in the design of the
inter-institutional coordination is                   institutional arrangements
hampered by political interests                             Maintain participation of policy making entities
in the Inter-institutional Committee to promote
ownership
From Components to
Outputs
Demand-driven sub-Projects        M                    Qualified NGOs and other technical assistance
from beneficiaries will be slow to come               providers will collaborate with thebeneficiaries in the
identification and preparation of sub-Projects
Social assessment will complete a participatory
diagnostic that would involve the identification of a
preliminary portfolio for each of the selected departments
Lack of technical skills at local  S                  Provide capacity building and technical assistance
govemments                                            to local govemments
Investments poorly utilized       M                    Good targeting mechanisms, sound technical
design and assistance strategy and, good monitoring
Results of the pilot are not      N                    Monitoring and evaluation system in place.
institutionalized                                            Maintain a good information flow between the
different agencies and stakeholders involved
Overall Risk Rating               S                   Due to the complexity of the political and
institutional situation in Paraguay and despite sound
technical preparation and specific risk mitigation
measures, overall risks to the operation are substantial.
These risks are offset by the pilot nature and limited
scope of the proposed Project.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-27-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) Presentation of the final version of the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) Appointment of independent auditors by Borrower through the executing agency
(iii) The PCU has been fully staffed and is operational
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Within 90 days of effectiveness, M&E system in place.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
Project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of Project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The Project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
1W                            '          L'
Estanislao Gacituia-Mari6      John Redwood                    Myrna L. Alexander
Team Leader                    Director, LCSES                 Director, LCC7C
Shelton H. Davis,
Sector Manager, Social
-28-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote social inclusion  -Poverty index        Studies and sector statistics. Stable macroeconomic and
and poverty reduction.                                                  sociopolitical context in the
- Family income in poor                         country.
households
- Employment among low
income population
Project Development     Outcome / Impact        Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Contribute to poverty   Poverty index for the   Studies and sector statistics. Local community
reduction among poor urban region.                                      organizations and
and rural households of in                      Baseline, Beneficiary   governments actively
the Itapuia, Misiones and  Family income for target  Assessments, Final  participate in the project
Neembucu departments, by beneficiary population.  Evaluation            and in the training and
supporting actions that                                                institutional development
promote production,     Employment among target  Project M&E system.    activities implemented.
poverty reduction,      beneficiary population.
generation of social capital                                            Local governments have
and social inclusion; and                                               enough commitment and
stimulating and                                                         resources to support
strengthening local                                                    implementation of activities
capacity to take on                                                    identified.
productive and community
development projects.
* Production development Improved productive                           Community organizations
infrastructure.                                 develop enough capacity to
integrate themselves into
Increase in participating                      the institutional framework
families income after three                     and express their demands
years.                                          effectively.
Employment generated at                         Good quality and timely
the community level by                          technical assistance is
subproject implementation.                      provided to beneficiaries in
order to respond to their
Increased technical and                         needs throughout the
managerial capacity of local                    process.
organizations.
Subprojects are technically
and financially viable and
- 29 -



sustainable.
Beneficiaries have the
capacity to manage the
investments.
* Generation of Social  Social Capital Index for
Capital              local communities and
beneficiary groups.
Communities and
beneficiary groups formally
organized, with improved
training and managerial
capacity.
* Social Inclusion     Access to basic social
benefits and programs by
beneficiary groups.
Participation by beneficiary
groups in local decision
making structures.
* Local capacity for   Number of local                                 The institutional framework
community            organizations routinely                         shows interest in adapting
development          participating in local                          to enhance participatory
decision making structures.                     mechanisms.
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Production development:  -525 income generation and Project M&E system
community development
sub-projects financed
-3,700 families benefited by
sub-projects
-80 sub-projects targeted to
vulnerable groups
(indigenous, women,
children)
- 50 institutions and
community organizations
receiving institutional .
development
- 30 -



- 200 training activities
targeted to vulnerable
groups
Capacity building:      - Number of jobs generated                       Sub-projects are technically
i. informal groups      by subproject investments                       sound and economically
viable
Beneficiaries have the
capacity to manage the
investments
ii. organized/formal groups) Organized groups trained in                 Community organizations
project design.                                 develop sufficient capacity
to influence and collaborate
Group/commnunity training                       with local governments
organizations available at
department level .
iii. local governments  Productive subprojects
identified and pre-appraised
iv. central level       Local level
agencies/organizations
trained by the central level
to become
group/community trainers.
v. coordination         Knowledge sharing events
held between the central and
the local levels.
Coordination events held
between the central,
regional and local levels.
Projects appraised by the
CDD
vi.M&E of subprojects   Events held by the different
project M&E levels.
Subproject proposals
evaluated by the different
M&E structures.
vii. community participation Participatory events held
within the framework of
subproject selection and
monitoring.
- 31 -



Degree of community
participation in project
decision taking structures.
Formal participatory
subproject evaluation
systemn established.
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                       Outputs)
1. Community             US$ 8.56 million        Quarterly progress reports. Communities demonstrate
Development.                                      Semestral reports. Annual  interest in demanding
performance reports.     support for nontraditional
Annual operation plans.  productive activities.
Internal
technical/financial/operati
onal audit reports.
External audit reports.
2. Institutional         US$ 0.67 million                                 Institutions demonstrate
Strengthening.                                                           interest in demanding
support for strengthening
activities.
3. Support Services      US$ 1.95 million                                 Critical management
(including front end fee).                                                systems are implemented at
project start and function
satisfactorily
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Paraguay: Pilot Community Development Project
The proposed project would be implemented over four years. The project would be financed by an IBRD
loan of US$ 9.0 million and counterpart financing of about US$ 2 million, including US$ 1 million of
beneficiary counterpart. The project seeks to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural
and marginal urban communities in three departments on the southem border of Paraguay (Itapua,
Misiones and Rleembuciu). The project will contribute to poverty alleviation and to the development of the
capacity of local communities to implement community development activities by: (i) creating income
generating opportunities for poor communities and (ii) building capacity of local institutions and
beneficiary organizations to identify, design and implement community development activities.
The project has three components that involve financing (on a grant scheme with beneficiary counterpart
funding) small scale community development investments identified by beneficiary groups. It is expected
that 500 subprojects will be financed under the project. The project would also provide technical
assistance and support institutional strengthening to local communities. The third component would support
the establishment and operation of a project unit to coordinate and monitor the technical and administrative
aspects of the project.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$8.56 million
Community Development Subproiects. This component will finance small scale (up to US$ 35,000)
demand-driven community development and income generating sub-projects (civil works, goods, technical
assistance) prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries. It is expected that approximately
500 subprojects would be financed with an average cost of approximately US$ 12,500 (including technical
assistance US$ 2,500). Beneficiaries would be required to provide matching funds (15%) of investment
costs in labor, goods and/or cash. A short list of types of activities ineligible for financing would be
enforced as indicated in the Operational Manual.
A pilot subcomponent for income generation and community development subprojects prepared and
submitted by the municipal governments to the Local Committees for their approval will be developed
under this component. Municipal governments would be able to work with local communities in the
identification, preparation and implementation of approved subprojects. The approval process would be
the same that for the subprojects submitted by beneficiary groups. Subprojects prepared under this pilot
would not be above US$ 3,000 and the maximum amount each municipality would be able to request
would not exceed US$ 5,000, for the entire life of the project.
The principal activities within this component would be:
a) financing of income generation subprojects, for agricultural diversification, small enterprises
such as bakeries, artisan workshops, services (semi-industrial laundry, etc.), small cottage
industries, processing facilities, community markets, and the alike;
b)financing of community development subprojects, for projects that would complement
productive investments such as child care facilities, community centers, child/youth development,
among others; and
- 33 -



c)financing of technical assistance for project identification, preparation and implementation up
to a maximum of 20% of the investment costs,.
All subprojects would have to meet the eligibility criteria and technical standards (including environmental
screening). All subprojects would go through a selection and technical analysis procedure as set forth in
the Operational Manual. Income generating subprojects above US$ 15,000 will be required to have basic
cost/benefits analysis (During Negotiations, the Bank will review a complete revised draft of the
Operational Manual, whose final version approved by the Bank will be a condition of effectiveness).
Project Component 2 - US$0.67 million
Capacitv Building and Institutional Development. This component is designed to facilitate project
implementation and to strengthen local communities capacities to design and implement community
development activities, and their participation in overall project implementation. This component will
finance support services, including technical assistance (pre-investment for non-organized groups), training
and organizational development, and the implementation of a participatory monitoring and evaluation
system.
The main activities within this component would be:
a) Support to the development of new groups, primarily among unorganized vulnerable social
sectors, including women, child/youth, indigenous groups;
b) Training to beneficiaries, community organizations and local governments on organizational
development, institutional strengthening, administrative skills for community development and
related issues to be identified by the beneficiaries; and
c) Technical assistance to local governments and support to the LCs and DCs to participate in
the project
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.95 million
Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation and Suyport Services. The project will support the
establishment of a Project Unit to coordinate technical and administrative aspects, oversee implementation,
carry out specialized studies and provide technical support to local government, community organizations
and service providers as required for successful project implementation. This unit will be responsible for
compliance with the project operation manual and all fiduciary aspects of the project. Cost shown include
the front end fee.
This component will support:
a) Project Unit, equipment and staffing of the project unit and consultant services required for the
implementation of the project.
b) M&E system, including baseline study, mid-term review, final evaluation, monitoring system
design and development, and dissemination of final project results.
c) Special studies, to support social capital formation, institutional strengthening and project
sustainability. The TORs for the specific studies will be defined during the first year of project
implementation in consultation with project stakeholders.
d) Auditing, to support required auditing of project accounts, as well as external auditing of
subproject implementation by a third party.
e) Recurrent costs, to cover part of the PCU operational costs.
- 34 -



Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: a monitoring and results assessment area would be established
within the PCU, with one staff member assigned half time to project monitoring and evaluation related
tasks. Besides, a comprehensive project Management Information System (MIS) would be set in place
during project implementation.
The MIS would complement the existing system (SIFEM) within SAS, which was developed with the
assistance of CEPAL to support monitoring, financial management and administrative management tasks
of SAS projects. It would allow recording of physical and financial information related to project
implementation and tracking of project performance. It would also support financial management tasks
related to loan disbursements.
As part of the continuous project monitoring efforts, the PCU would provide an update of the status of the
various physical, financial and development performance indicators for project implementation to Bank
supervision missions and also included in the semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank.
The information provided would be based on system data related to the control and supervision of
beneficiary subprojects. In addition, SAS would prepare and submit an Annual Operating Plans for Bank
review in the month of October of each year, along with documentation evidencing sufficient allocation of
funds in its budget to cover for the need of counterpart funds raised by planned activities in said plan. As
part of regular project supervision activities, joint SAS/Bank annual reviews would be undertaken,
including an in-depth Mid-Term Review. Independent evaluation of the project's socioeconomic impact
would be conducted through baseline and final evaluation studies. In addition, annual beneficiary
assessments will be carried out to ensure that beneficiaries' perspectives are satisfactorily reflected in the
monitoring of project activities.
- 35 -



Project Performance Indicators
PARAGUAY - Community Development Project
I t  Compone Sourc Fiduciar Continuou ||        Target
Indicator            |   nt      e   | y Req.  s Eval.             Year Year | Yea-r|Ye-a_r
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   |  1  2  [ e 3   J I   4
Physical/Development performance:  [ I                   1          1    1    1
Hire (District) Community Development  IF 3  ||MS#|5
lsp cialists                      IL   _ _   11 _ 11  _    11  1__  1  1 # 1 5 1 5  11 _   IL  I_ _
|Hire TA Specialists for PCU     ||      3  || MS ||=                                       =     = 31  II 4 IL S I  IL 1
|Vehicles/motorcycles purchased   l7 2     || MS                       #    7 IL       _   11   11   It
|Eligible municipalities participating in the project |]  2  |[  MS  || _ li  I L 7 [  5  I  s  |  1_   11
lProject CDs created (cum.)      ]I    2   ||MS |t _   _        _   _ #     40  [    30| 10 [|
|Eligible departments participating in the project IE  2  || MS ||       ]I IL 3 IL 3 I[ _ 1 
IProject CCDs created            II    2   ||MS ||_                      l      [3 . _3 =  ]
IPurchasecomputerequipmentpackages  ]I  2     MS         ]I           T 11   16   6 I  ___ ][= 11   11 __
lProject dissemination events    ]I    1   IL M JI         I        1[ # 11 3 It      == II
|Radio promotion campaigns        ||   1      MFs___      11      -__  # It  _ it 3 It     I    I     I 
|Leaflets produced               ]I    1   ||MS ||_                _#T_3_         3   = IL  _  I 3  L  _  1
|Leaflets printed and distributed      1      MS || _  _  ]L#E 3,500 I| 3,500 I=            =1I
|Folders produced                                 E 1 [  MS IL3 11  1 # |      It    II
|Folders printed and distributed  31  1      MS | |                 I  '        It 3
Project preparation/management workshops  ||  1  MS        _   _     || #   2 |        _   11 j    _
|Project monitoring and evaluation workshops  3[  1  1! MS IL-I _________   21                   IL  I
b-output                         ]I _  _   I[ __                    I[.I       11   11   11 II
FSpecial studies carried out     31    3      MS |         L.       Il #       IL  ItL      I.[=  __
IM&E related studies carried out  ]I   3      MS# I                 l # It 3 It 1 |1 ]J _          1
I|Projects audited                |31         MS 11      3J 11 __     %11 15 |I 15 T|[15 3I'7   1[
Project CD meetings held         31   2    || MS ||    _  _      _ ]I#lt 72 || 18 T|18 ]1F8       181
jProject CDD meetings held             2   |[ MS ]| _  _  3  _         # || 960 E20    240 || 240 [|24
TA in project mgmtUadm provided to smaller  il  2  ||MSl
imunicipalities                   11       11      IL      11       IL     I     11  11   11    1
uTA in project planning/M&E provided to smaller |[  2  || MS |       Month
lmunicipalities                   11  ____  I1   11__     11       11___  11____  11__  11__  11__  11_ ___
TA in MIS provided to smaller municipalities  J[  2  It MS  31              45 || Mn I t t I      _
|Scholarships (mgmtladmtechnical) provided  ]l  2  It MS ||   I _ _  31 # It 3  II              I
|Workshops to train trainers held  Il  2    It MS |I 7    1         |3 # I 3 It    t_       IL   I
lWorkshops to train survey providers held  2  MS ]I  V    31 _    _    #  It 6 It 6  [ _    ]   I
Workshops to train councils on subproject  i[  2  |I _|#                     |    8
|management held
Workshops to train non-structured groups held  2  E[ M  ii          ]      2      1   _     __
-36-



Wor stopst 6rain-G n  upojc  gt       i ,S--iT                           5  F    i 
prepaoraiong held  on sbMSoect 1MF
Workshops to train NGOs on subproect2 -#                             6    6] __ ~___] __
lWorkshops to train councils on M-&E he-ld  ii  2 FMs I            f2   f2   [__ ~___I__ 
Subproject proposal outlines submitted for 1 1 MS#                 1209       20   27
iconsiderationj                 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ 1 __ _ _ J[ _ _ _ _ 1  _ _ _ I __ _ _ _ ] _ _ _ _
lTrainers trained2                      MS[__                  #  60[     11   _1!_I _
Isurvey providers trained          2     MS7____                   f8   f~I __ I___1 __ 
IMunicipalities receiving training  1     SV#                     I -I       I    F___I __
IDepartments receiving training    2   ]I  s [                F# -] 17    3   __   __   __ 
Civil servants trained in promotion, project mgmt, 1 2  11M [  ]  # [3,0J  ,50]
IM & E                         I  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __M _ _ _ _ _ _ _ i  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   i_ _ _ _   L _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _   t_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
People trained in promotion, subproject mgmt,  2 11  F1           i    f    i    i    1
IM&E                           ]F  2   ISn#                         10   15    __      i_
INGO trained in subproject preparation   [ 2                 3       o    i  [___]j___[___I
Informal groups trained to become formnal and for ~2~  S1 1  n  ~#~  0 [201
lproject design/preparation__     _ _ _   t_ _ _-    t_ _ _ _ _ it_ _ _I __ _ IL_ __I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
New roup fomed              3F2 S7 __               ___F             F 1501536_f__I    _
I Grup prmannce after subproject  2  fM1iIF8                          19!0
~implmentaion  yrs. 1 8&2)  L______  1    1i                ___  L____i 
fPercentage of beneficiary groups applying to  I   S%               2          0    1 5  25
other funds and initiatives during or after project]1
[implementation (cum)                                                         2      0
rprogams b grops benefited by the project  ] 2 M                      1 
ftaimplemene generating community subprojects 1 MSIVV             152     85I19     24I __
Subprojects targeted to vulnerable groups  1 M                #10        110I        0
lim plem ented                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ L _ _ _ _ i  _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _I  _ _ _   _ _ _  
IFamilies benefited by subprojects]I I   M                      #]I~1I60      ,01 100 __1
JFull-time jobs (equivalent) created  ]I 1  S-     II    V    F # ][ 300]( 200  5070Jf600
%osbrojects audfted with positive repor  ] 3 MS____I V    Jf%    9    85 ]I907 Jf 95  10
I%  of beneficiaries corresponding  to the tag 2  S1                    1   1     i
[profile                      I_____ [I__ I                          0    0    9    0    0
Degree of participation by beneficiary groups in  2  S        Qualitative. Should have a positive evolution
decision making processes. at the local level  I              showving increased participation and
______________        ___      __~~~~~~1~   __   __ transparency
[Community complaints about 'processing flaws  2  S           Qualitative. Should have a negative evolution
Iwith regards to subproject selection  11           I         showving increased transparency and efficiency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ I _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   in   the   process   _ _ - _ _   - _ _ -
[Community organizations systematically  2  MS#                     ~    ~     ~55
Iparticipating in Councils and Local Governments11                     1
afe r   year   3               1  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ __ 1  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ 1 _ _ __ 1 _ _ _   L _ _ _   1 _ _ _  
Participatory project monitoring  and evaluation  3 i  S ]1            i    1 f__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
meetings  held                  __ __ __   I  _ _ _  _ __ __   __ __ __   _ _   ___ I F ___
Decrease in poverty (index) among beneficiaries      _____          BO'___1___[___
Increase in employment amongbeeiire It_____jSjf%                    TDI __if___I___If__]
lic e s   in  family  income  among b neiire If_ _ _ _ _i   I_ _ _ _ 11_ _ _ _ _ If   I T D !__ _ I  _ __ [_ _ _if -
_______________________________________  C  _________ _____ ( -----------_____ ---__  I ~
-37-



ncrease in socia inclusion among  Fneicianes    11       ]IC    1( _   _                 -11       1      _u    317  Il _       _
Non-targeted       physical      monitorinel _                                                  1       1     . 
indicators                                   !                           _ I  I                                 _             I _
Urban subprojects implemented                It    1        MS   ||                '         #  ]j _ _ ]       l _ _          ]
Rural subprojects implemented               il     I     |  MS    _     _         v      ||  #   || __ ]        l _    [C
Subprojects approved at district level       [ l     |      MS   [ | |                       #                 1|
implemented                                              1       li111                           1      11      1      11      1
Subprojects approved at department level     |     1     ||                II     v      ||#] _       _        1[ _  _ t      I
ISubprojects targeted to women implemented    [     1    ]   M              ]                    ]_        _    [       [
lSubprojects targeted to youth implemented    [     1    ][ MS   |                           #   ][ __ ][ _                   I   C
|Sbplmented targeted to indigenous people   El     1     1||   i MS  ||I                                1      I   I    =
w     MS = monitoring system
S = studies (Baseline, Mid Term, Final Evaluation, secondary infonnation analysis, etc.)
Denotes minimum physical-financial monitoring requirements
Denotes indicators that may be used for continuous performance evaluation purposes, since the derive from data
recorded in the application form, or that may be calculated based on pre-established coefficients and provide an idea of
the potential impact/change induced by the activity supported.
I Values to be detennined based on the results shown by the baseline.
-38-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $miliion  US $million   US $mfflion
A. Community Development Subproject                        7.44         0.66         8.10
B. Capacity Buiilding and Institutional Strengthening      0.59         0.01         0.60
C. Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation               1.54         0.15         1.69
Total Baseline Cost                                        9.57         0.82        10.39
Physical Contingencies                                   0.25          0.01         0.26
Price Contingencies                                       0.50         0.03         0.53
Total Project Costsl             10.32         0.86         11.18
Total Financing Required              10.32         0.86         11.18
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       0.10          0.08          0.18
Services                                                    3.63          0.10          3.73
Training                                                    0.39          0.00          0.39
Subprojects                                                 6.19          0.69          6.88
Total Project Costsl     10.31          0.87        11.18
Total Financing Required     10.31          0.87         11.18
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.02 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 10.16 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 88.56% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary or Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Main Assumptions: given the demand-driven nature of investments to be made by project beneficiaries, it is
not possible to determine a priori the exact composition of the overall investment program to be financed
by the project and calculates aggregate economic efficiency measures. Illustrative models of most likely
beneficiary choices were developed to estimate the internal rate of return of the project's income generating
activities. Since only activities identified and presented by potential beneficiaries would be considered, an
ex-ante determination of actual costs and benefits of income generating investments would not be feasible.
Thus, economic return estimates for income generating activities were based on a sample of investment
sub-projects likely to be demanded by beneficiaries following the results of participatory preparation work.
Economic return calculations included the cost of incremental expenditures -investment, including technical
assistance, and recurrent- required by the proposed income generating subprojects. The benefits considered
included increased production, lower production costs and increased market sales.
Although the final status of households benefiting from project activities would depend on the particular
subproject chosen, project implementation arrangements would ensure that the best investment alternatives
are chosen for financing. Most notable among these, the demand-driven approach, the strict criteria to
assess the technical and economic viability of beneficiaries' proposals, and the stipulation that only
technically, as well as financially and economically sound proposals with internal economic rates of return
(IERR) -exceeding the estimated opportunity cost of capital, and posing no undue financial burden on
beneficiaries- would be supported. As an example, the analysis of the sample of likely subprojects
indicates that internal economic rates of return for these investments would range from 11% to 45%.
Pricing Assumptions: price contingencies were excluded and base costs less taxes were used for the IERR.
The rate of exchange of the Paraguayan Guarani is determined in the open market and given low trade
restrictions, domestic prices tend to correspond quite close to border economic values. For the purposes of
the economic analysis, a conversion factor of 0.90 was used for tradable inputs, machinery and fertilizers.
While the project would increase employment in the region, unemployment and under-employment would
not be eliminated. Therefore, shadow prices for unskilled labor were estimated at 70% of the market wage
rate, while for skilled labor, the market rate was assumed to reflect its opportunity cost.
Sample models: for illustrative purposes nine productive subprojects were selected for the economic and
financial analysis, representing some of the most typical or innovative investments that may be demanded
according to diagnostic studies carried out as part of project preparation activities. Economic flows and
benefit-cost ratios for all productive subprojects analyzed (Table 4.1) show that they would be
economically sound.
The subprojects modeled and analyzed are:
*      Handicrafts (Indigenous Peoples). Equipment and other facilities for the production and marketing
of handicrafts and knit- work by a group of 10 families, generating a full time job equivalent per family.
*      Egg production. Inputs, equipment and other facilities for the production of eggs by a group of 8
families, generating a part time job equivalent per family.
*      Poultry production. Inputs, equipment and other facilities for the production and marketing of
chicken by a group of 18 families, generating three full-time jobs.
*      Apparel production (Women). Small sized facility equipped to produce apparel for children,
-40 -



serving up to 15 families and generating ten full-time jobs.
*       Eco-tourism (Youth). Equipment and facilities for a group of 17 youth to establish and operate an
eco-tourism site generating four full-time jobs.
*       Irrigated Horticulture. Equipment and inputs to produce high value irrigated produce by 12
families, generating four full-time jobs.
*       Processing/marketin2 of fish fillets. Equipment and facilities to fish, process and market fish fillets
by a group of 19 families of artisan fishermen, generating seven flwl time jobs.
*       Local bakery (Women). Equipment and other facilities for a small bakery to produce baked goods
for local sale, benefiting 10 families and generating five full-time jobs.
*       Piglet Production. Inputs and facilities for the production and marketing of piglets, benefiting 23
families and generating five full-time jobs.
Table 4-1
Results of the Economic Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity            IRR        NPV       Benefit /
(%)        (US$     Cost ratio
Handicrafts                          20        2,619        1.1
Egg production                       29        6,619        2.1
Poultry production                   34        19,773       2.1
Apparel Production                   33        7,270        1.9
Eco-tourism                          1 8       4,732       I1.9
Irigated horticulture  _29                     7,600        2.1
Processing/Marketing of Fish Fillets  30       15,063       2.3
Local Bakery                         31        6,911        2.0
Piglet Production               i    24        17,765       IT.9
Main assumwtions
- Discount rate: 10 %
- Time horizon: 10 years
- Growth in real prices of output: constant
- Real exchange rate: constant
- Input prices: fourth quarter 2001 prices
- Output prices: real average 2000-01 prices
The results show robust economic profitability for all cases analyzed, with IRRs ranging from 18% to
34%, well above the discount rate, and benefit/cost ratios averaging 1.9.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
The financial viability of the same group of selected productive subprojects used for the economic analysis,
was analyzed with the following results:
-41 -



Table 4-2
Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity       Investment  IRR     NPV*    Income**  Years to
(US$)     (%)    (US$)     (US$)     repay
Handicrafts                      10,253     4     2,193     3,382      1.6
Egg production                   10,821     18     3,148    1,580      2.0
Poultry production               23,514     23    11,490     1,159      1.5
Apparel Production               20,577     14     2,554    3,818       1.1
Eco-tourism                      22,923     11     591       855       3.7
Irrigated horticulture           14,750     19     3,845    1,204      2.5
Processing/Marketing of Fish Fillets  23,772  22   9,698     603       2.6
Local Bakery                     12,885     17     2,630    1,568      2.1
Piglet Production                32,133     14     5,297    1,872       1.4
* at 10%, ten year flow
** Net annual income
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around US$10,300 to US$32,100, which is quite
typical for this types of community productive investments, with investments per beneficiary family
averaging US$1,285. Less than four years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less than
two for half of the cases analyzed. The net incremental annual income generated by the subprojects at full
development ranges from around US$600 to US$3,800, with an average value of around US$1,800.
Except for the handicrafts model -where the financial rate of return is heavily influenced by the large
amount of full time jobs equivalent generated-, all subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, as
they compare favorably to the discount rate of choice. However, the results evidence the need for the type
of support provided by the project, as rates of return, albeit satisfactory, are still well below the cost of
borrowing in Paraguay from commercial credit lines, which is what beneficiaries would have to pay given
the scarcity of concessionary credit programs as well as with real.
The models analyzed fall into two main categories. One group of subprojects are mostly rural based, build
on activities already familiar to the beneficiaries, involve less dependence from technical assistance and
present more accessible marketing and management requirements. Beneficiaries mostly gain from lower
production costs and better product prices from regular marketing channels, due to enhanced product
quality and larger quantities. The second type of subprojects tend to be urban based, promoting activities
that usually generate considerable employment, but demand more technical assistance and require higher
marketing and managerial skills, as products are often sold to audiences outside the community.
The financial sustainability of the subprojects analyzed was examined through a sensitivity analysis.
Three scenarios were considered, including a 15% decrease in benefits due to lower product prices, a 15%
increase in production costs and a combined setting. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in
Table 4-3.
-42 -



Table 4-3
Sensitivity Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Subproject           Base     - 15%     + 15%    Combined
Case    benefits   costs
Handicrafts               IRR (%)   20%        5%       7%         9%
NPV($)     2,619   (1,864)   (1,064)    (6,508)
Egg production           IRR (%/6)  29%       16%       18%        6%
NPV($)     6,617    1,942     3,194     (1,481)
Poultry production       IRR (%/6)  34%       17%       20%        10%
NPV($)    19,773    5,923     9,536       (7)
Apparel Production       IRR (%)    33%        8%       12%       (14%)
NPV($)     7,270   (1,359)    1,482    (14,495)
Eco-tourism              IRR (%)     18%       8%       10%        2%
NPV($)     4,732    (924)      279      (5,377)
Irrigated horticulture   IRR (%)    29%       22%       24%        12%
NPV($)     7,600    4,555     6,031      746
Processing/Marketing of  IRR (%)    30%       20%       22%        13%
Fish Fillets             NPV($)    15,063     7,252    10,025     2,214
Local Bakery             IRR (%/6)  31%       14%       17%        2%
NPV($)     6,911    1,381     2,707     (2,823)
Piglet Production        IRR (%)    24%        9%       12%       (3%)
NPV($)    17,766    (1,068)   2,509    (16,326)
Subproject sensitivity varies with the type of subproject, with a general trend for the rural based models
analyzed to be less sensitive to the adverse conditions portrayed, in line with their initial higher
profitability. In general, all the subprojects tended to show a marginally higher sensitivity to a decrease in
product prices, while all models analyzed showed large sensitivity to the combined scenario, with only the
poultry production, irrigated horticulture and processing of fish fillets subprojects maintaining profitability
under those conditions.
Fiscal Impact
Fiscal impact of the project would initially be negative, as direct impacts stemming from revenue
generation are likely to be small. However, experience from similar projects indicates that, in the long run,
fiscal impact of these types of investments may be expected to recuperate due to the improved financial
status of beneficiaries and its effect on their purchasing power and expenditure patterns and, consequently,
on fiscal revenues. Most importantly, it is expected that there will also be budgetary savings associated to
the decreased need for local governments to provide economic support to the beneficiary population
through activities which need would be reduced due to the impact of project investments.
-43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  1 Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.3       3.5       4.5       0.9       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         2.3       3.5       4.5       0.9       0.0       0.0      0.0
,Total Financing            2.3       3.5       4.5        0.9      0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  1.9       2.8       3.5       0.8       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government               0.3        0.3       0.4       0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.1        0.4       0.5       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    2.3       3.5       4.4       1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Procurement
All procurement will be done in accordance with the Bank' guidelines on procurement of goods, works,
and using standard contract documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999 and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment of the implementing agency was conducted in October 2001 and
cleared by the RPA on October 23, 2001. The "Overall Procurement Risk" was assessed as "HIGH".
SAS' administrative unit is adequately organized and staffed to handle the present level and type of of
procurement activities. However, the unit could not assume the additional work load generated by the
Project and has no capacity or resources to assist in procurement planning and monitoring, nor in
strengthening the beneficiaries'own capacity while supervising decentralized procurement. In addition,
it is unclear whether SAS will have sufficient resources to sustain the unit independently without the
financing it is currently receiving for this purpose under an IDB loan. Consequently, existing
administrative protocols and internal controls can be relied upon only to facilitate procurement actions
carried out for the Project by a separate, dedicated sub-unit financed by the Loan. It was agreed that
this sub-unit comprise a qualified procurement officer, an accountant/FM officer, and an assistant, be
physically housed within SAS' administrative unit, and partially supported by its established
administrative structure. However, the sub-unit will report only to and coordinate directly with the
Bank Project's PCU, maintain separate project files, and will be responsible for a fuller range of
procurement management activities, including capacity building, supervision, and quality control of all
procurement financed by the Project. The establishment of a fully operational sub-unit will be a
condition of effectiveness. The Project's Operational Manual, also a condition of effectiveness, will
include a chapter specifying procurement responsibilities and procedures, as agreed with the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
The project would finance the purchase of two 4WD trucks, 5 cross-country motorcycles, computers,
and miscellaneous office equipment estimated to cost approximately US$100,000 equivalent in total.
All packages are estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and would be procured following shopping
procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. However, any package
estimated to cost more than US$50,000, if any, would be procured following NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
-45 -



Consultant Services
Fimns
The Loan would finance contracts with consulting firms for information campaigns, technical
assistance, studies and capacity building for the beneficiary communities and municipal and central
government. These contracts would be awarded following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
process, in accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.
Individuals
The consulting services required for the Project include specialized advisory services and project
management services up to an aggregate amount of US$1.7 million equivalent, which are appropriate
for individual consultants.
Individual consultants would be selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and
retained in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
The competitive process followed to select individual consultants would be described in further detail in
the Operational Manual.
Subproiects
The Project will provide matching grants to legally constituted rural and urban community associations
to finance small scale productive subprojects, technical assistance and training for institutional
strengthening. Grants would be made in accordance with the selection procedures described in the
Project Operational Manual. A standard grant agreements acceptable to the Bank would be included in
the Operational Manual and used to transfer grant funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that
would ensure adequate implementation.  The average size of the grant will be approximately
US$16,000 and the maximum amount will be US$35,000. Procurement of goods would follow
commercial practices which would include price comparison from three qualified suppliers, whenever
possible. All such goods would be procured at a reasonable price, taking into account also other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts, and would be used exclusively in implementing the grants.
Contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent, if any, would be awarded by the PCU on
the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. However, no
such contracts are anticipated at this time.
Small works contracts would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified local contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully.
-46 -



Most beneficiary communities are located in remote areas and many have long-standing relationships
with one technical assistance provider which operates exclusively in the area. In addition, the
technical assistance required by the beneficiaries for subproject design and implementation will be
fairly standard in nature, relatively simple (i.e. basic agricultural techniques and social organization
models), and estimated to cost at most US$6,000 equivalent per subprojects. Consequently, it is
recognized that it would be impractical to require a competitive process in such cases and communities
will be allowed to select directly and indicate a technical assistance provider as part of their subproject
proposal. However, beneficiaries will be required to select technical assistance providers from a roster
of approved NGOs and firms whose qualifications will be have been carefully reviewed by the PCU.
In addition, technical assistance contracts will be based on standard TOR and consultant rates included
in the Operating Manual. These contracts, whose aggregate amount is estimated to total approximately
US$1 million equivalent, will be factored in the subprojects' cost and charged to the correspondent
disbursement category of the loan agreement. In all other cases, the selection process will be managed
by the PCU following an appropriate QCBS method with the participation of the beneficiary
community's elected body in the evaluating committee.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB           Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00          0.10          0.00        0.10
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.07)        (0.00)      (0.07)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          2.48          0.09        2.57
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.08)        (0.00)      (2.08)
4. Subproject                        0.00            0.00          7.88          0.00        7.88
(0.00)          (0.00)        (6.26)        (0.00)      (6.26)
5. Training                          0.00            0.00          0.65          0.00        0.65
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.59)        (0.00)      (0.59)
Total                             0.00            0.00          11.11         0.09        11.20
(0.00)          (0.00)        (9.00)        (0.00)      (9.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fmanced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 47 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.64
(0.58)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.58)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.70    0.00     1.70
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.53)  (0.00)   (1.53)
Total  0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00     2.34
(0.58)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.53)  (0.00)   (2.11)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        N.A.                     N.A.                    N.A.
2. Goods                         >50                     NCB               First two each year
<50                   Shopping              First each year
3. Services
Firms                           >100                    QCBS                      All
<100                    QCBS                     None
Individuals                      >50                Chapter V of the              All
<50              Consultant Guidelines          None
4. Subprojects                   All               As specified in the  First Three Urban and First
Implementation Manual     Three Rural per year
Works for Subprojects            <28               Price Comparison              None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$50,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement supervision will be performed by a Procurement Specialist (PS) or Procurement Accredited
Staff (PAS) and will include a review of: (i) the PCU's capacity; (ii) the procurement plan for the project,
including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated during the next 12 months; (iii) the PCU's
monitoring system; and (iv) complete records for one in every twenty contracts (for goods, technical and
consulting services, respectively). In addition the PS or PAS will perform selected physical inspections of
the goods received, and meet with selected suppliers, whenever possible.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-49 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                 0.09            100 foreign; 90 local expenditures
2. Consultant Services                    1.90                        90
3. Training                              0.34                         90
4. Subprojects                            5.65            90 of amounts disbursed by SAS
5. Operating Costs                       0.07                         50
6. Unallocated                           0.95
Total Project Costs                       9.00
Total                                    9.00
- 50 -



Financial Management Assessment Report
December 20, 2001 (up-dated February 9, 2002)
1.    Background
A Financial Management Specialist carried out the Financial Management Assessment of the Secretaria de
Accion Social (SAS), the entity responsible for the coordination and implementation of the project. This
assessment was conducted in accordance with guidance OP/BP 10.02, the Project Financial Management
Handbook dated February 1999, Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World
Bank-financed Projects Guidelines to Staff dated June 30, 2001 and applicable Bank guidelines. The
objective of the assessment was to determine if the project has the capacity to properly manage and account
for all project proceeds and to produce timely accurate and reliable project management reports for use by
management and submission to the World Bank.
The evaluation was performed in Asuncion, Paraguay, initiating discussion meetings December 9 and 10,
2001. An action plan was agreed with SAS and properly follow-up is given to the entire evaluation.
The review included (i) discussions with government officials, (ii) discussions with the Bank team (ii) a
review of documents, financial statements and related administrative processing documentation.
2.     Scope
The purpose of the review was to (i) perform a Financial Management Assessment of the project, including
an evaluation of all major components of project financial management such as structure for internal
control, financial reporting, procedures for budget control and a MIS which supports accounting processes
and transactions (ii) provide guidance and technical assistance to SAS officials on strengthening of existing
sub-systems such as the accounting system and (iii) agree with the team to an Action Plan for establishing a
financial management reporting system.
3.     Executive Summary
Conclusion:
On the basis of the assessment performed, the FMS concluded that the project meets the Bank's financial
management requirements. The initial visit to the project took place in June 2001. Thereafter, the FMS
continued to provide guidance to project management up to now (February, 2002), period over which
substantial progress was achieved in the overall project financial management arrangements at the project.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be submitted by compatible computerized system before the
effectiveness. Actions pending to fully satisfy Bank financial management requirements are indicated in
Action Plan topic in this report.
- 51 -



4.     Summary table of the Risk Assessment
Overall risk: Moderate (M)
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent risk
Country specific                                The CFAA has been carried out by Bank to
analyze the weaknesses and strengthens of
GOP.
Entity/project specific: SAS      Low
Control risk
Implementing Entity: SAS          Low
Funds Flow: Credit funds          Low
Staffing                          Moderate     -Condition of effectiveness re: appointment
of CPA
Accounting policies and procedures  Low
Internal Audit                    Low
External Audit                    Low
Reporting and Monitoring          Low
Information Systems               Low
5.     Findings and conclusion
Project Objective
The Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project seeks to improve the quality of life and social
inclusion of poor rural and marginal urban communities in three departments on the southern border of
Paraguay (Itapua, Misiones and Neembucu). The project will contribute to poverty alleviation and to the
development of the capacity of local communities to implement community development activities by: (i)
creating income generating opportunities for poor communities, and (ii) building capacity of local
institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design and implement community development
activities.
The Secretaria de Accion Social (Social Action Secretariat, SAS), under the President's Office, has the
mandate of coordinating the development, implementation and monitoring of the government's poverty
alleviation strategy. As such, the SAS can directly implement poverty alleviation-related activities or,
establish agreements with other government agencies to transfer resources for poverty alleviation programs,
collaborate with them in the design, implementation and monitoring of these programs.  Since its
establishment in 1997, SAS has been responsible for the implementation of three poverty alleviation
programs.
Audit compliance. The IDB project N° 929 OC- PR, ATN/SF - 5228-PR, ATN/SF 5460-PR
- 52 -



and ATN/SF 6120-PR executed by SAS are in compliance with audit covenants.
Flow of funds. An initial advance of the amount will be disbursed by the Bank to Banco Central de
Paraguay (BCP) Special Account. The PCU will ask for funds to SAS and then the SAS will ask BCP to
receive the funds in commercial account to carry out the payments approved by PCU.
At this time, authorities from Paraguay and Argentina CMUs are negotiating with Government of Paraguay
to improve the flow of funds from BCP to PCU making easier and fasters transfers between them avoiding
bureaucracy.
Project financial reporting arrangements. The quarterly financial statements will include the Statement
of Sources and Uses of Funds and the Advance Reconciliation Statement (similar to the SA reconciliation
statement). These project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections
of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the
end of each reporting quarter.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include, additionally, the schedule of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both
acceptable to the Bank.
The SAS as executing entity will be audited in accordance with Bank TORs of Auditing annually.
The project and entity audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
the reporting period (which coincides with the calendar year), the Supreme Audit Institution "Contraloria
General de la Republica de Paraguay" as auditor firm is acceptable to the Bank.
Staffing
Project financial management will be undertaken by SAS specialized unit that supports development
projects in financial/administrative functions (procurement, fund management, recruitment, etc
To link the PCU with SAS administration will be hired a CPA in accordance with Consultant Contracts
Guidelines & TORs in the Bank.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Administrative procedures are in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with consideration to
safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring systems. The project
accounting system named WALBOTT has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
IDA's fiduciary requirements.
Segregation of duties. SAS will channel financial transactions through its organizational structure and
established procedures, which support an adequate segregation of procurement, payment authorization and
recording activities. Any given commitment and subsequent expenditure requires the signatures of the
committing (certifying) officer and the verifying (approving) officer, who must be two distinct individuals
not in a reporting relationship.
- 53 -



Accounting. Project records are maintained under the cash basis of accounting, with the possibility to
report on expenditures comnmitted but not yet paid. The Chart of Accounts of SAS has been adapted to
project necessities.  It has II digit to ensure that all the information can be identify by components,
activities, cost centers,etc.
6 - Action Plan
The Government agreed with Bank to hire the Public Accountant, who will be working as link between
the PCU and the SAS, before the effectiveness. During negotiations, the PCU and the Bank agreed to the
FMRs to be submitted quarterly.
-54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             06/25/2001                  06/25/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     12/10/2001                   12/10/2001
Negotiations                                    01/17/2002                  02/11/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2002
Prepared by:
Social Action Secretariat
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant, TF 026317, US$236,250
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario          Sr. Social Scientist (Task Team Leader)
Michael Carroll                   Sr. Agriculturist
Alvaro Soler                      Agriculture Economist, Consultant
Enzo de Laurentiis                Sr. Procurement Specialist
Juan David Quintero               Lead Environment Specialist
Morag Van Praag                   Sr. Disbursement Officer
Eduardo Brito                     Sr. Counsel
Grissel Prieto                    Task Assistant
Esme Abedin                       Operations Analyst
Susana Cirigliano                 Financial Management Specialist
Reider Kvam                       Sr. Social Scientist, Peer Reviewer
Valeria Pena                      Lead Sociologist, Peer Reviewer
Steven Schonberger                Sr. Operations Officer, Peer Reviewer
Samuel Morley                     IFPRI, Peer Reviewer
-55-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires and BTOs.
C. Other
1.- Informe de Consulta con Sociedad Civil y Gobiernos Locales. Informe Final. Dominique Demelene y
Ana Ramos, consultores. Asunci6n, Marzo, 1999.
2.- Estudio sobre la Pobreza en el Departamento de Itapua. Informe Final. Centro Paraguayo de
Estudios Sociol6gicos, CPES. Asunci6n, Agosto 1999.
3. Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo Comunitario de los Departamentos de Itapua, Misiones y Neembucu.
Diagn6stico Socio-econ6mico. MOPCNMME. Asunci6n Abril 2000.
4.- Informe de Diagn6stico Departamental y Portafolio de Proyectos Comunitarios Departamento de
Neembucu Informe Final. Centro Paraguayo de Estudios Sociol6gicos, CPES. Asunci6n, Octubre 2001.
5.- Informe de Diagn6stico Departamental y Portafolio de Proyectos Comunitarios Departamento de
Misiones. Informe Final. Centro Paraguayo de Estudios Sociol6gicos, CADEP. Asunci6n, Octubre 2001.
6.- Informe de Diagn6stico Departamental y Portafolio de Proyectos Comunitarios Departamento de
Itapua. Informe Final. Centro Paraguayo de Estudios Sociol6gicos, ICAP. Asunci6n, Octubre 2001.
7.- Documento de Proyecto Sobre Procedimientos Ambientales para Determinar los ImpaManual de
Procedimientoctos al Ambiente del Proyecto de Desarrollo Comunitario, "Prodeco". Informe Final. Roger
Gamboa, Consultor. Asunci6n, Octubre 2001.
8.- Documento de Proyecto. Proyecto de Desarrollo Comunitario, "Prodeco". SAS, Asunci6n Octubre
2001
9.- Borrador Manual Operativo del Proyecto de Desarrollo Comuitario, "Prodeco". SAS, Asunci'on
Octubre 2001
10.- Diagnostico Institucional. Informe Preliminar. Leonardo Moreno, consultor. Santiago, Chile, Octubre
2001
11.- Community Development Preliminary Report. Jan Flora, Consultant,. Ames, Iowa, October 2001.
12.- Informe de Consulta con la Sociedad Civil Proyecto de Desarrollo Comunitario, "Prodeco". Informe
Final. MEGA Consultores. S.R.L., Asunci6n, Paraguay, Noviembre 2001.
13. - Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds - The Latin American Experience, Glaessner, Lee,
- 56 -



Sant'Anna, de St. Antoine, World Bank Discussion Papers #261
14. - Manual De Procedimiento Administrativo - Martin Flor Romero, Consultor
15. - Lista de verificacion para la evaluacion de la gestion financiera - Senora Susana Cirigliano
16. - Manual de Organizacion y Funciones
*Including electronic files
- 57 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig   Frm Revd
P039983        1998 4th RURAL WATER SUPPLY 8 SANITATION                40.00       0.00                            0.00      33.26      24.98      20.12
P007927        1997 PY-M.HLTH/CHD.DV.                                  21.80       0.00                            0.00       7.63       5.02       0.00
P007926        1995 ASUNCION SEWERAGE                                  46.50       0.00                           15.00      10.45      23.37       0.00
P007918        1994 NTL RES MGMT I                                     50.00       0.00                            0.00      22.44      21.82      15.17
Total:      158.30        0.00                           15.00      73.79      75.20      35.29
- 58 -



PARAGUAY
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi    Partic   Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 59-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Paraguay   & Carib.  Income      Development diamond
2000
PoDulation mid-vear (millions)                        5.5      516     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1.440     3.680    1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      7.9     1,895    2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%1                                        2.6       1.6       1.0     GNI
Labor force (%)                                       3.1       2.3       1.3    GNI         ,5                  Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povertv line)
Urban poDulation (% of total population)              56        75        42
Life expectancv at birth (years)                      70        70        69
Infant mortality (Per 1,000 live births)              24        30        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ,,        9        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  79        85        80
Illiteracy (% ofopulation ape 15+)                     7        12        15
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-aoe population)  111     113       114            Paraguay
Male                                               112         ..      116           - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             109                 114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1080     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           4.6      5.3       7.7       7.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                31.7     22.9      23.0      22.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP           15.3     33.2      23.0      20.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                  18.3     16.6       9.3       7.0
Gross national savinas/GDP                  19.2     19.7      11.9       9.8
Current account balance/GDP                -13.5      7.4      -0.8      -4.0     Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                        0.8      1.5       0.9       1.0    saings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                              20.1     40.0      32.5      36.2     s
Total debt service/exDorts                  17.0     12.2       6.4       8.0
Present value of debtVGOP                     ..       ..      31.0
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..      65.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.5      2.2      0.5      -0.3       1.7        -   Paraguay
GDP Der capita                     -0.6     -0.4     -2.1      -2.8      -0.8        - - -  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      11.5     -0.6    -16.9     -39.9      -2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        10
Agriculture                                 28.6     27.8      21.9      20.6
Industrv                                    27.4     25.2      26.0      27.6
Manufacturino                             16.0     16.8      13.6      14.4      0      :
Services                                    43.9     47.0      52.1      51.8     .      9     6
Private consumption                         75.7     77.2      81.9      82.7    -oo
General government consumption               6.0      6.2       8.8      10.3              -  GDI             GDP
Imports of goods and services               28.7     39.5      36.7      35.5
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.6      6.6       0.5      -0.3    40
Industry                                     0.3      3.1       0.9       5.3    20
Manufacturinq                              4.0      0.6      -4.4       5.7    0o
Services                                     3.1     -2.2      -2.9       0.5   -20 -
Private consumption                          2.4      3.6      -4.6       3.5   -40 --
General government consumption               1.5      6.4       4.2       4.5   -60o
Gross domestic investment                   -0.8      0.2      -3.9      -4.3            -    Exports  -*    Imports
Imports of goods and services                4.4      3.2     -26.7     -12.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-croup average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 60 -



Paraguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       25
Consumer prices                               ..     38.2       6.8       8.9    20
10
Implicit GDP deflator                       16.7     36.3       2.5       8.5    lo
Govemment finance                                                                 s
(% of GDP, includes current.grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..     12.2      16.8      16.2            95    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                         ..     3.5       2.1       0.2           -GDP deflator -*        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      2.9      -3.6      -4.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..    1,366     2,673     2,251    s,ooo
Soy products                                 ..     267       307       286     4,0_ 
Cotton                                       ..     333        62        78     4,00*
Manufactures                                 ..     408      1,933    1,380      WU
Total imports (cfl                            ..    1,636     3,042     2,837    2           **
Food                                         ..     442      1,061      989
Fuel and enerqy                              ,,     146       186       173     *
Capital goods                                ..     569       505       471       o
94   95   96   97   99   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        ..         .               5 Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                701    2,514     3,267    2,801     o .- £'-
Imports of goods and services              1,314    2,169     3,533     3,307        H4W m     9    I ER I.
Resource balance                            -613      345      -266     -506
Net income                                    -4        2        31       32      2
Net current transfers                          0       43       171      175                                       Li
Current account balance                     -618      390       -64     -299
Financing items (net)                        769     -170       180      101
Changes in net reserves                     -151     -220      -117      198      s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..     675        996      797
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)           126.0   1,229.8   3,119.1  3,486.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         921    2,105     2,514     2,715
IBRD                                        80     279        182      197                         A: 197
IDA                                         45      41         30       28             G:580              6:28
Total debt service                           133      325       233      254
IBRD                                         7      65         32       29
IDA                                          1        1         2        2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             10        7         0        0                                    D:912
Official creditors                          38     -149        42       89          F: 526
Private creditors                           94       -9        94      -18
Foreign direct investment                   32      77         66       95
Portfolio equity                             0       0        -21        3                      E: 472
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 31        0         0        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               33       16        42       47      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         2      41         25       20      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    31      -25        18       26
Interest payments                            6      25         10       11
Net transfers                               25      -50         8       16
Development Economics                                                                                              9/21/01
- 61 -



Additional Annex 11
Environmental Assessment Summary
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Objective And Environmental Legislation In Paraguay
This annex describes the procedures for the environmental assessment of subprojects to be financed by the
Paraguay, Pilot Community Development Project (PRODECO). It aims at integrating the different
procedures that the Secretariat of Social Action and the Secretariat of Environment will follow to comply
with Paraguay's Environmental Laws and the World Banks environmental directives, and proceed with the
execution of subprojects that will be financed under this project.
Paraguay has a variety of laws regarding the environment, many of which, although they are related, act
independently because of the different entities that apply them. Various articles of the 1980 Sanitary Law
(Law No. 836) initiated the first environmental legislation which included environmental pollution in
Arts. 66, 67, 68 and 82 and the National Environmental Sanitation Service, SENASA, an agency of the
Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, also included provisions on water, air and soil pollution,
especially in Arts. 69, 80, 81 and 83 on water and on sound pollution in Arts. 128, 129 and 130.
The following is a breakdown of each one of the Laws and Resolutions applicable to the environment,
specifically related to this project:
* Law No. 422/73 or Forestry Code refers to the "public use and rational development of the
country 'sforests andforest lands; " the agency responsible for its application is the National Forestry
Service, including the "control of erosion, protection of watersheds and springs."
*  Decree No. 18831/86 refers to "water sources and channels, andprotectiveforests."
*  Arts. 258 to 297 of the Rural Code (Law No. 1.248/31) establish the "protection of bodies of
water. "
* Arts. 1898 to 2014 of the Civil Code (Law No. 1182/85) establish the "protection of bodies of
water. "
* Law 904/81 approves the "statutes of indigenous communities. " Since the end of the dictatorship
that ruled the country for 35 years, and with the creation of new national entities, with responsibility
for environmental matters, important legislation was approved, for which the issues with which this
project deals are succinctly described.
* Arts. 18, 43 and 53 of Municipal Organic Law No. 129/87 grant municipalities the right to
"legislate matters such as: water supply, sewers, recreational waters and control of industrial
activities considered to be unhealthy and hazardous with regard to public health."
* Law No. 42.90 refers to the "utilization of toxic products. "
* Law No. 96/92, dealing with wildlife, "obliges persons who wish to carry out projects or
activities to take actions that may modify the ecological balance of the country's wildlife. "
* MAG Resolution No. 87/92 "prohibits the utilization of organic-chlorate pesticides in
horticultural, fruit, cereal and oilseed crops and in pastures. "
* The September 1992 Resolution regulates the "use of sanitary sewer services and connections
made by CORPOSANA throughout the Republic's territory. "
* Law No. 294/93 on "Environmental Impact Assessments, " for which the Bureau of
Environmental Planning, DOA, an agency of the MAG's Undersecretariat of Natural Resources and
- 62 -



Environment, is the responsible agency, "declares it mandatory to carry this out in all works or
human activities that may modify the environment and whose positive or negative, direct or indirect
consequence is to affect life in general. " Art. 7 includes a list of public or private works or activities
that will require such assessment. The Law was regulated by Decree No. 14281/96.
*  Law 253/93 which approves the "Biological Diversity Agreement" adopted during the United
Nations Conference on the Environment, held in Rio de Janeiro.
* Law No. 515/94 "which prohibits the exportation and trafficking of rolls, pieces and beams of
wood. "
* Recently, on July 21, 2000, the Legislative Branch enacted Law No. 1561, "which creates the
National Environmental System, the National Environmental Council and the Secretariat of the
Environment, SEAM, " which transfers the authority to apply Law No. 294/93 to the recently-created
Secretariat of the Environment, SEAM. This Law is later regulated by Resolution No. 10 which
establishes SEAM's organizational structure, dated October 12, 2000. This Law is the most recent
and important on the subject of the environment in Paraguay and we shall refer to and utilize it as a
basic document for the establishment of this project's environmental analysis structure.
* Law No. 515/94 on the Defense of Natural Resources "prohibits the installation of sawmills
within 20 kmns of borders. "
* Law No. 352/94 on protected Natural Areas "regulates their management and administration,
creating a national system. "
* Law No. 585/95 on Promotion of Forestation and Reforestation, promotes such action on priority
soils based upon a Forest Management Plan.
* Law No. 799/96 sets general guidelines to regulate fishing and related activities in publicly or
privately owned rivers, streams and lakes.
* Resolution No. 396 of the MSP and BS, from 1993, regulates the control of the characteristics of
natural resources related to environmental sanitation and grants SENASA authorization to apply
regulations.
* Resolution No. 397 of the MSP and BS, from 1993, establishes technical standards on drinking
water quality and its distribution.
* Resolution No. 54/93 of the MSP and BS regulates both Resolutions of the Ministry (Nos. 396 and
397).
Paraguay's new Constitution was approved in 1992 and is the basic document that opened the door to the
laws that have been enacted to date, by referring directly to the environment in the following Articles:
Art. 6:      On the Quality of Life
Art. 7:      On the Environment
Art. 8:      On Environmental Protection
Art. 38:     On the Right to Defend Different Interests
Art. 66:     On Education and Assistance
Art. 112:    On State Ownership
Art. 176:    On Economic Policy and the Promotion of Development
Other important Laws dealing with the environment, its protection and the responsible agency, are the
following:
* Law No. 716, of May 1996, penalizes Offenses against the Environment, and also deals with
water, air and soil pollution, establishing payments of fines and prison sentences for those who breach
the Law, which is applied by the Environmental Inspection Bureau, an agency of the State's General
Inspection Bureau.
- 63 -



* Resolution No. 886/98 of the National Navigation and Ports Administration was designated by
Resolution No. 1331 of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC) as an agency to
enforce the application and compliance of laws of private ports, which regulates Law No. 419/94
"Which creates the legal schemefor the construction and operation ofprivate ports." "This
Resolution is committed to compliance with Law No. 294/93, currently under the responsibility of
SEAM "
* Law No. 1262/98 on the elimination of Toxic Waste.
With the enactment of the Penal Code, the Environmental Inspection Bureau is created and can take judicial
action against those who pollute the environment and establishes fines for offenders.
As seen in the list, there is a diversity of laws and legal documents in the country that should make it easy
to apply environmental management, since there a solid legal basis exists.
The enactment of Law No. 1561/2000 established a single state entity, assigned to the Office of the
President of the Republic, responsible for environmental assessment. The Environmental Procedures
included in this project comply with the basic provisions of Laws 1561/2000 and 294/93 on
Environmental Impact Assessments. The guidelines also follow the World Bank's Operational Policy
(OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessments.
All subprojects that will be supported by the project correspond to the B or C type, which requires an
environmental screening to identify potential impacts and the actions to mitigate them. A table has been
prepared that shows the Proposed Environmental Procedure of the National Environmental Agency,
SEAM, and the Executing Agency, SAS, and the participation of the community or the interested
municipality for Social Funds Projects. This table shows the responsibilities under the Law for SEAM and
SAS, in order to streamline the respective processing and compliance of subprojects within specified
deadlines in order to successfully complete them.
- 64 -



Environmental Screening Procedures
STAGE                         RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTIONS
SECRETARIAT OF ENVIRONMENT
(SEAM)SECRETARIAT OF SOCIAL ACTION (SAS)
I. ENVIRON-MENTAL         Carries out a survey of information on each project, by means of a
IDENTIFICATION            qualified surveyor
II. ANALYSIS AND          Analyzes information on Environmental Rating and Verification.
IDENTIFICATION            Evaluates compliance with Law and Bank policy. This is done by
-the Project Management Unit.
The Secretariat delegates the analysis and assessment to SAS, but
only at their evaluation meetings. Produces the Report and adjusts
the Project
III. PROJECT              Revises information in the Monitoring Plan for mitigation measures
EXECUTION                 that arose in the analysis and evaluation of SAS data Checks
compliance related to all environmental proposals during the
execution of works. Project executing unit remains responsible.
IV. FINAL ASSESSMENT Evaluates the environmental aspect of the Project presented by SAS
and given its final approval regarding compliance with
environmental laws Keeps the Bank informed on actions and results
obtained
During project preparation, a diagnostic and survey of basic information on subprojects identified was
completed. Based on that, the consulting firms that prepared the departmental diagnostics have presented a
subproject profile or typology, which has served to prepare the Environmental Procedures. Each
subproject will have an Environmental Impact Assessment Form, which will be filled out by a person who
is qualified and trained in handling it and in interpreting results. The form will contain basic points that
should be completed during a mandatory visit to the site where the subproject will be carried out. A sample
of the form is presented below (see the Operational Manual for the complete form in Spanish):
- 65 -



Environmental Impact Assessment Screening Data-sheet
Department:
Subproject number:
Subproject type (specify):
Municipality:
Subproject's principal production item (detail):
Personal consumption:
Livestock:
Agricultural:
Agro-industrial:
Mixed:
Other:
7.     Physical environment
DESCRIPTION               YES            NO             EVALUATOR'S
PERTINENT COMMENTS
7.1 Will liquid waste be
dumped into sanitary sewer
system?
7.2 Will liquid waste be dumped
into a stream, river, lagoon or
embankment?
7.3 Will water quality be
changed by the waste's quality?
7.4 Is compliance with
SENASA Resolution No. 585
foreseen?
7.5 Will pesticides cause
pollution?
7.6 Is channeled dumping in a
specific point foreseen?
7.7 Will groundwater be
polluted?
7.8 Will noise affect the
environment of the works?
7.9 Will solid waste be dumped
on the site as a form of final
disposal?
7.10 Will the environment be
affected by trash?
7.11 Will workers' health be
affected by the type of industry?,
- 66 -



7.12 Will existing water courses
be altered?
7.13 Will any existing legal
provision on the environment be
violated?
7.14 Will works affect wetlands
or flood-prone areas?
7.15 Will noise levels increase?
7.16 Will absorption time
increase due to industrial
discharges?
7.17 Will vehicular traffic
increase from the zone near the
industry?
7.18 Will the existing public or
private water supply system be
affected?
7.19 Will there be a change in
the flows to be discharged into
existing sanitary or storm-water
sewers?
7.20 Is the industry located near
hospitals or schools?
8. BIOLOGICAL
ENVIRONMENT
8.1 Will there be significant
forest clearing?
8.2 Will plant coverage be
altered or will it be removed and
not replaced?
8.3 Will the habitat of animals
residing in the area be affected?
8.4 Will pesticides be used that
may       be affectednimals or vegetation
existing in the area?
8.5 Will the use of existing
natural resources increase?
8.6 Will non-renewable natural
resources be affected?
9. SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT
9.1 Will human or animal
residents be relocated?
9.2 Will persons adjacent to
installations experience
economic losses?
- 67 -



9.3 Will the zone's culture be
affected?
9.4 Will the zone's cultural
values be affected?
Probable negative environmental impacts (indicate):
MITIGATION MEASURES
Proposed mitigation measures (detail):
Is the proposed mitigation measure suited to the type and magnitude of the negative impact?
Yes
No
Reformulation:
Why?
If the mitigation measure involves costs, are these contemplated in the subproject's budget?
Yes
No
Reformulation:
Why?
Is the budget cost within the appropriate values for the proposed measure?
Yes
No
Reformulation:
Why?
Does the assistance plan contemplate activities that will allow the group to implement mitigation measures?
Yes
No
Reformulation:
Why?
Supervision is recommended prior to (date)
Date:
Name and signature of evaluator:
Instructions For Completing the Environmental Screening Data-sheet
The subproject form offers an environmental assessment list that should be completed by the responsible
SAS Technical Officer, and considers different types of impacts and mitigation measures for each.
The "Environmental Rating and Verification" list is aimed at identifying the presence, or lack thereof, of
- 68 -



environmental impacts of subprojects and, if none exist, their positive, neutral or negative character.
In the case of negative environmental impacts, it is aimed at facilitating the foreseeing of corresponding
mitigation measures that may arise, their incorporation into the subproject's budget, and technical
assistance to be offered to beneficiaries.
Environmental verifications are part of the subproject form, so that the SAS technical officer can proceed
to make a diagnostic in the participatory preparation of the subproject and a formulation thereof which
takes into account the environmental criteria that form part of the ex ante assessment.
Items 7, 8 and 9 are basic for understanding the subject. The questions may vary or be complemented by
additional questions as the case may be or according to the situation that may arise. Usually, there are
three environments that require an "Environmental Rating and Verification" and these refer to Physical,
Biological and Social environments. The incorporation of the social environment requires the interviewer
to be trained by the SAS to understand projects proposed with social funds. It is of no use to fill out the
form if one does not know in detail the magnitude and objectives of the projects and the interviewer should
complement the situation found with photos and/or drawings, to illustrate what is proposed in these social
projects.
The general logic of the list that appears in the "Environmental Rating and Verification" form is that all
questions allow only two answers, either a YES or a NO, but in some cases it may be a "gray" area in
which the answer can be YES or NO at the same time:
The YES answer corresponds to all cases in which some impact attributable to the subproject can be
foreseen.
The NO answer corresponds to those cases in which there is no environmental impact.
The GRAY answer which can be YES or NO, requires filling in the appropriate comments to better
understand the situation, the subject of the assessment.
In cases where negative impacts may exist, the following tasks should be performed:
Formulate the corresponding mitigation measures.
Include in the subproject budget the necessary financing to be able to execute them.
Design the technical assistance for the group so that the above-mentioned mitigation measures can be
implemented.
The EIA form evaluator should review the list for the subprojects' physical, biological and social
environments, keeping in mind that in the subprojects in the likely negative impacts may be:
In item 3, the evaluator should specify the type of subproject from among the following:
(In case it is not part of the above list, it should not only be described but its details should also be
specified.)
The negative impacts that appear in item 6 of the form may be:
In item 10, it will not only be necessary to give verbal details but also to provide a drawing, map or graphic
- 69 -



that makes it possible to understand the magnitude of the proposed mitigation, and each of the measures
should be qualified in detail so there is no doubt about the measures and actions to be taken.
Item 11 may require that mitigation measures be formulated, keeping in mind that these should be simple,
practical, perhaps requiring little investment or a lot in other cases, but all should be efficient and with an
assurance of success.
Item 15 is one of the most important ones in the form, because it is here where the evaluator should utilize
his knowledge and expertise to realistically describe how to avoid damage to the environment caused by the
project.
All the above items should define the environmental reality as a whole that may be affected by the
subproject, but item 15 will allow the SAS and SEAM to be satisfied regarding compliance with the Law.
-70 -



Additional Annex 12 Social Action Secretariat - Organization Chart
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
Poder Ejecutivo1J
I   ; Presidentede t                             :
Asesores                   Repi                  Vcepresidenci
______  mli     laRp   u'bica__  -ic      Poin         I
GabineteC ivil
Secretaria                                       DrelnSrtai
Tecnicaria  I, t Secretaria      Socretariade d  Direcion
Do laMujor     1AccionSocial  IBnfceca           Ncoa
Planificacion                                    yAyudaSoclall: Antidrogas
- 71 -



- 72 -



Additional Annex 13
Social Assessment
PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project
This annex summarizes the main findings of the social analysis of the project. It is based on the social
assessment (SA) carried out by local consultants and the analysis of social development issues by the
project team. The specific objectives of the SA were: (i) to identify key stakeholders, and their agendas; (ii)
to identify priorities of poor communities in the three selected departments (Itapua) Misiones and
Rleembuciu; (iii) to identify mechanisms for participation of beneficiaries in project implementation and
monitoring ; and (iv) to develop targeting and eligibility criteria for different types of sub-projects,
investments, and beneficiaries.
In Paraguay, three multidisciplinary teams carried out the SA combining Rapid Appraisal techniques (RA)
with semi-structured interviews with qualified informants, focus groups, workshops, and review of
secondary data. The SA was conducted from June to September 2001 in the three departments, selecting
localities representative of the diverse socio-demograhic, economic and agricultural areas. At the same
time the Bank's team gathered and analyzed secondary information of key social development issues
relevant for project design and implementation and collaborated with the local consultants in the analysis of
the results of the SA.
Institutional Constraints to Poverty Alleviation
Paraguay is a unitary, decentralized state composed of 17 departments and, the city of Asunci6n
(independent from any department). There are 220 municipalities. According to the 1992 constitution
departments and municipalities have political, administrative and financial autonomy. The departmental
government consists of a Governor and a Departmental Council (Junta Departamental) elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms. The municipal governnent consists of a Major (Intendente) and a Municipal
Council (Junta Municipal).
In 1993, a departmnental government law (214/93) was passed regulating the responsibilities and
functioning of the departmental governments. However, that law hindered the implementation of the
decentralization principles granted in the 1992 constitution. In 1994, the Congress passed a new law
(426/94) that removed most of the limitations created by law 214/93 and further specified the financial
resources of the departmental governments. Regarding municipal governments, these still are regulated by
law 1294, which is prior to the 1992 constitution, which generates a severe disconnect between the current
departmental regulations and the pre 1992 constitution municipal ordinance.
Departmental governments have multiple functions: (i) coordinate and organize with the municipal
governments the delivery of public services such as water, electricity, and others that by their
characteristics involve more than one municipality; (ii) prepare with the Junta Departamental a
departmental development plan with its budget; (iii) coordinate with the central government the provision of
health and education services. In turn, municipal governments are responsible for: (i) urban development
and zoning; (ii) public education, health, water and sanitation and social services; (iii) maintenance of
municipal roads and public infrastructure
Decentralization has advanced very slowly over the last 10 years. In part, the difficulties in implementing
the decentralization process in Paraguay is explained because the decision to decentralize in 1992 was
- 73-



driven by the break of the equilibrium attained during the dictatorship. With the democratization of the
country, some interest groups saw decentralization both as a threat that could weaken their power (and that
of the executive) as well as an opportunity to strengthen local political leaders who perceived their interests
threatened by national level leaders and wanted to further their role as power brokers in a decentralized
government.
Departmental governments have faced multiple problems. The decentralization process has increased the
demands placed on local government (departments and municipalities), to address the needs of growing
communities, particularly the poor. However, most departments do not have enough resources to carry out
their work. Furthermore, their powers, responsibilities and financing are vaguely defined. Budgeting
issues have been a constant source of conflict between the departments and the central government.
Departmental governments get their resources from: (i) 15% share of the value-added tax (VAT) collected
in the department, (ii) 15% share of the property taxes collected by the municipalities in the department
and; (iii) 30% share of the proceeds from games of chance operated in the department.
In 1996, the total budget for the 17 departments was approximately US$ 24 million. However, that figure
only reflects funds approved, not actually those distributed as the Ministry of Finance cut back
departmental budgets by 30% due to shortfalls in revenue collection. If fact, the central government
continues to control a large percentage of the resources and local institutions remain weak in their capacity
to design and manage local development programs. Of total government expenditures, social expenditures
at the departmental level expenditures (Gobernaciones) represent less than 1% of the total, although in
absolute terms social expenditures at the departmental level have increased from approximately US$ 1.1 in
1994 to US$ 2.7 in 1996, US$ 3.6 millions in 1998 and US$ 9.3 millions in 2000. At the same time,
estimates of the per capita Gross Municipal Product (GMP) and social expenditures at the municipal level
indicate that municipalities with large numbers of poor households tend to have a very small GMP and a
rather low level of social expenditures. When compared to the total national budget and the budgets of the
municipalities, the departments clearly are resource starved.
The decentralization process has not advanced enough because: (i) lack of the financial resources required
to undertake their responsibilities; (ii) lack professional (skilled) staff; (iii) lack of clear organic laws; (iv) a
centralist political culture of the central government and Paraguayan society in general.
Many of the departmental and municipal governments no don't have the infrastructure and (skilled) staff
required to function properly and have had to deal with basic organizational issues such as establishing and
equipping an office. Only a few of elected local govenmment officials (Juntas Departamentales and
Municipales) have experience in local government. Furthermore, the representativeness of the Juntas is
limited as much of their members represent primarily the interest of professionals and business people in
the large towns in the department. Currently, there is little representation of small agricultural producer
and rural dwellers in general. Women are ill represented (9 over 167, nationwide) and, there are only two
indigenous members in the Boquer6n department Junta.
Instead of promoting democratization and broad participation, decentralization has fostered the role of local
power brokers and caudillos producing a pattern of local reproduction of centralism. Furthermore, there is
a growing tension between departmental Juntas and elected representatives to the congress which are seen
as hostile to decentralization and as being responsive primarily to the national political party organizations.
On the other hand, local leaders are perceived to be excessively parochial in their role, lacking the capacity
and interest for promoting policies that would respond to the urgent socioeconomic needs at the local level.
In practice, the decentralization process has not yet been able to change the well know pattern of
- 74 -



patron-clientage between elected authorities and citizenry.
Democratic institutions remain weak and confidence in the government is extremely low. According to a
recent survey, most people in Paraguay distrust the government and think that reforms are essential to
consolidate the democratic system and fight corruption. Both issues, strengthening democratic institutions
and decreasing corruption, are seen by most Paraguayans as the same and necessary conditions for
improving the economy and achieving a sustainable and equitable development.
The particular characteristics of Paraguay social, economic and cultural structures have contributed to the
development of weak social institutions and a clientelistic political party system, strongly rooted in the
nation's social fabric. Paraguay political system is bicameral (chamber of senators = 45 seats, and
chamber of deputies = 80 seats), with all members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms.
Paraguayan politics are characterized by rigid alliances constructed along factional lines, with faction
leaders demanding loyalty from members. The enduring nature of political loyalties reflects the weak
development of social institutions, including the state and civil society. Family and kin continue to be the
primary focus of loyalties and identity, limiting the role of larger social institutions such as communal
associations, local governments and the state.
At the same time, civil society is also weak. Although there is a long tradition of community and
neighborhood associations and peasant organizations, these also respond to the same social dynamics
indicated above. Contact between government and civil society organizations in Paraguay still is quite
rare. The lack of development of civil society organizations and weak linkages between civil society and
government have also contributed to the limited role local governments have had in resolving poverty
related issues at the local level. Civil society organizations and local communities that could have played a
major role as providers of public goods had been limited by the existing distrust and the bureaucracy that
actually controls the resources. Participation has been mediated by institutions directly under the control of
the central government, and officials at the local government have not been successful in getting the
bureaucracy to move and establishing partnerships with civil society.
Corruption continues to be a significant problem that limits the effectiveness of government anti-poverty
programs and the development of strong, independent, institutions. Multiple factor contribute to maintain
corruption. Despite the increasing democratization of institutions and independence of the judicial power,
the weakness of third party enforcement mechanisms makes contracts useless. People on the other hand
still do not trust the judicial system and individuals could expect more assistance from extended kin on than
from clear and transparent rules that are not followed.
The establishment in 1992 of the General Controller's Office, in charge of ensuring accountability in the
public sector, has been a significant step in controlling corruption in the public sector. Nevertheless, law
200/70 continues to limit the development of a career in public service and makes more cumbersome to
sanction corruption. Appointments in the public sector are still based on personal relationships and there
are no independent institutions and rules that would oversee that appointments, job performance and staff
behavior would be fairly assessed and sanction as required for those trespassing the law. Thus professional
and career development in the public sector continue to be influenced by kin and network allegiances. At
the same time, real wages of lower rank public sector employees have not increased. In addition to the
above, the existence of a strong informal economy supported by smuggling foster corruption in the public
sector.
However, corruption is not only a public sector problem. The private sector has buttressed corruption by
seeking economic advantages through a web of far-reaching kinship ties and political allegiances
- 75-



marshalling support for private dealings. The weakness of the judicial system and the pervasiveness of
corruption in Paraguay are in part explained by the capacity that certain groups have to inflict economic
and non-economic costs to other individuals, groups, and the state. Important segments of the private
sector are connected to corruption and other illegal activities. To reduce corruption there should be
incentives not only in the public sector, but more importantly in the private sector. A key factor in this
would be a more equitable income distribution.
In this context, privatization and decentralization without transparent mechanisms and clear rules may not
contribute to the anti-poverty policies and programs of the government. In the struggle against corruption,
mere privatization could give rise to concentrated ownership of assets, increasing the already unequal
income distribution and giving rise to new and perverse inefficiencies. The state is the biggest employer in
the country, privatization with the consequent reduction in size of the state could imply growth in the
informal sector, reduce total income an in turn, increase corruption. On the one hand there is the need for a
smaller, more efficient and, thus, stronger state in the economic sphere. Corruption is a common market
failure in Paraguay and the state should be ready to provide the institutional, social and physical
infrastructure required to correct it and to achieve its social goals.
At the same time, it is important to highlight that decentralization without resources and real participation
could boost the informal markets and paternalistic relationships, de-institutionalizing even more an already
highly non-insitutionalized society. Yet, there must be a redistribution of power to local levels of
government to ensure more transparency and accountability.
Culture and Institutions
Current distrust on institutions and low levels of citizen participation in Paraguay reflect a long historic and
cultural process characterized by social relations developed under paternalistic networks mediated by
powerbrokers. This pattern has even permeated family relationship and the ways in which individuals are
socialized. There is a long tradition of informal organization and participation in neighborhood
organizations rallying support for local bosses that mediated community relationships with resources.
However, historically, civic participation has not been encouraged and very simple forms of citizen
participation never developed. Only during the last 10 years civic participation has expanded.
In general, there is a poor assessment of political parties and little trust on social institutions, with the
exception of the Catholic Church. The table below shows the results of a recent public opinion survey
regarding their trust on different institutions. The political system (elected representatives senators and
deputies), judicial system and government are the least trusted.
- 76 -



Table: Level of Trust on Institutions
Trustworthiness according to Interviewees Responses (%)
Strong trust  Some trust   No trust      No answer
Catholic Church                76.8         16.5          5.1           1.7
Peasant organizations          56.1         25.7          12.1          6.2
Workers' unions               40.5          34.1          15.6          9.8
Government                    22.5          43.2          30.1          4.3
Judicial power                20.7          45.8          27.6          5.9
Armed forces                  20.0          34.5          36.6          8.9
Politicians (senator & deputies)  17.0      41.8          31.3          9.9
Source: Documento de trabajo No 93Democracia: Confianza en instituciones y preferencias electorales
Resultados de un sondeo de opini6n. Marielle Palau Setiembre, 1997 BASE Investigaciones Sociales
Asunci6n, Paraguay
There is a high level of fragmentation in the state and civil society regarding the notion of democracy
understood as an institutional, political and cultural framework. A majority of the population values
democracy however they are uncertain about its benefits. More importantly, if the democratic system is not
up to the expectations it has generated in the people, most likely there will a change in attitude favoring the
traditional paternalistic and autocratic relationships.
The democratic process seems blocked by the lack of trust on the state and civil society institutions. While
civil society organizations have contributed to ease the political institutional crisis, still have not been
successful in developing a culture of civic engagement and good governance, breaking away from
subjection of the civil society to private interests and government influences. The state-civil society
relationship in Paraguay is one in which neither one has defined mechanisms of collaboration and synergy.
It is a situation in which both state and civil society have developed in the interstices left by various power
groups. Thus, they lack the capacity to arbitrate and manage the government and society civil society
organizations, political parties and a state.
Without doubt, the fragile existing equilibrium between these two processes is reflected in the changing
cultural and political development of the country since 1989. The factors A crucial aspect in the
constitution of the citizenry has been the lack of a civic culture. There are two process that define the
formation of the citizenry in Paraguay. On the one hand, existing social and political relationships have
contributed to the development of a civic culture based on the notion of power (vertical relationships) that
prevails in the generation and diffusion of the ideas, criteria, knowledge, truths etc. (someone with power is
who defines and mediates social relationships). On the other hand, lack of recognition of the "other" as
essential parts of collective life has hindered the development of the citizenry.
- 77 -



The last decade of democratic government has shown the gravity and depth of old collective problems: the
tension between a patrimonial and clientelistic state and a civil society mediated by interests of diverse
kind, that is to say a fragmented. There is a crisis of identity, of values and trust on the political system (the
political culture) and social institutions. This contributes to the difficulties in achieving good governance,
understood in the sense of being able to transform the current situation. This situation is reflected in the
lack of trust in societal institutions and the difficulties experimented in consolidating citizen rights and
developing a clear and widely supported state policy. In this context, poverty alleviation and local
development are seen as spoils to be taken rather than the result of coordinated state-civil society
collaboration in the design and implementation of policies and programs.
To develop a synergy between state and civil society, however, supposes more than the force of the law,
more than the constitutional intention of the state recognizing citizenship rights. It requires a state that
actively remove those obstacles that impede the enjoyment or exercise of those rights, and the development
of a new set of relationships between the state, the political system and civil society.
A cultural change is required to develop a vision of the democratic system that recognizes that the
democratic system is supported in the weaving of a close collaboration between the political system, civil
society and the state. Redefining the bonds among state and civil society implies strengthening the state
reform process and the development of civil society, which under the current situation implies changing the
political culture. The development of a culture of partnerships and co-responsibility in public management
remits to a central question which is: expanding the capacities of local governments and communities to
undertake development activities such as improving access and quality of services and to contribute to
greater welfare and social equity. It results unthinkable a successful fight against the poverty to be carried
out without a strong component of civil society participation in the form of local level associations
participating in the design and implementation of local development programs and participating in policy
decision spheres that would contribute to democratize public management, to make it more transparent and
to strengthen people's trust on societal institutions, including the market. All this requires a gradual process
of acquiring the required skills and of developing social capital. In turn, this involves moving beyond
corporativist interests and a processes of coordination and planning among private and public instances, as
well as clear and simple norms and procedures to facilitate and make effective participation at the local
government level.
Civil Society and Participation
There are two main types of civil society organizations (CSOs) in Paraguay: (i) non-profit private
development organizations, whose main beneficiaries are not their members or staff and; (ii) membership
organizations with corporative interests. Among the first group there are about 170 CSOs, most of which
were organized in the last 15 years. The main objectives of these organizations include the advancement of
rights (civil, political economic and cultural), provision of technical (and financial) assistance to groups in
need; capacity building and social organization, research, dissemination and outreach activities. The
second type (more than 350), correspond to traditional and wide-spread organizations characteristic of
Paraguayan society, including cooperatives, unions, mutual associations, neighborhood organizations and
communal associations. These organizations have traditionally dealt with local infrastructure (water,
electrification, roads, etc.), social services and welfare issues.
While there are hundreds of community organizations, movements, social organizations, and associations
of different types (social groups, beneficiaries, professional, school-related, etc.), most of these
organizations are scattered, disorganized, and with little autonomy. Most civil society organizations
(CSOs) in Paraguay are closely related to economic and political interests and have little capacity to bridge
- 78-



different social groups and integrate into a common agenda various interest groups. Lately, a few
(thematic) networks of CSOs have developed aiming at channeling the views of a specific sector, having an
input in policy dialogue with the government and multilateral agencies and, accessing financial resources
for the development and implementation of social programs.
Collaboration between CSOs and the government (central/local) is increasing. However, still is infrequent.
Primarily, collaboration has taken place at the project level, with CSOs providing services to beneficiaries
of government programs. Good examples of this relationship have been the Propais and Natural Resources
Management Project (Rural Investment Pilot). It is important to note that most cases where collaboration
with CSOs has taken place correspond to projects financed by multilateral and bilateral donor agencies.
Clearly, these experiences, although limited in scope, have legitimized the role of CSOs as efficient service
providers. Yet, with the noteworthy exception of the National Council for Poverty Alleviation that is
discussing the National Poverty Reduction Strategy, there is little CSO participation in policy dialogue and
program design.
USAID is implementing a comprehensive program to strengthen and consolidate democratic principles at
the local level. While this program does support direct poverty alleviation activities, it has helped to
complete participatory diagnostics and development plans addressing poverty alleviation and it has
contributed to develop an informed and active civil society Also, local governments are receiving training
in administration, budgeting, and transparent financial management.
Gender and Reproductive Health Issues
Starting in the 1980s, a few CSOs working on gender issues began to request from the government the
development of specific gender policies and the establishment of a specialized government agency to
address women's issues. In the early 1990s there were about 15 women/gender oriented CSOs working on
research on the current situation of Paraguayan women, and policy issues. Currently, there are three main
women CSOs networks in Paraguay (Coordinaci6n de Mujeres del Paraguay; Red de Mujeres
EducadorasPopulares and Multisectorial de Mujeres del Paraguay). However, only in 1992, the
government established the Women's Secretariat (with the rank of ministry), in charge of formulating and
coordinating policies and programs targeted to women. Along with this office, other government agencies
have specific programs addressing the needs of women, such as the Program for the advancement of
working women (Ministry of Labor and Justice), agricultural extension program for women (Ministry of
Agriculture), maternal health program (Ministry of Public Health and Welfare).
A key issue that women's organizations and the Women's Secretariat has focused is domestic violence.
There are no official statistics regarding domestic violence in Paraguay, and existing police reports
under-register the existing cases. Only in 1998, the media reported 16 women murdered by their partners,
180 women raped and more than 300 cases of battered women. Nevertheless, estimates of the Women's
Secretariat based on case studies and reports kept by CSOs suggest that more than 35% of Paraguayan
women are subject to some form of (physical and sexual) domestic violence. In December 1998, a draft
bill on domestic violence prepared under the auspice of the Women's Secretariat by the Coordinaci6n de
Mujeres de Paraguay in collaboration with other organizations and specialists was submitted to the
congress. However, until now the bill has not been approved by congress. While the criminal code was
revised in 1998, several initiatives to revise the code on gender related issues have not progressed.
The estimated birth rate of 31.1 (per 1000 population) and fertility rate of 4.5 children per women are
among the highest in the continent. In rural areas, fertility rates are even higher, reaching an estimated 5.8.
Maternal mortality is estimated in 123 (per 1,000 births) . At the same time, less than one-third of women
- 79 -



of reproductive age have access to family planning and reproductive health services. Besides the
government, the Centro Paraguayo de Estudios de Poblaci6n (CEPEP), is one of the few CSOs offering
health care, particularly essential family planning (FP) and reproductive health (RH) services to poor
women through 5 clinics.
More than 90% of the women (rural and urban alike) have knowledge about family planning methods.
However use of family planning methods is significantly lower. Only 51% of the women (39% in rural
areas) use some family planning method. The most widespread family planning method used is the pill. It
is important to highlight that among women that use some form of family planning, use of the pill is even
more frequent than "natural" methods (such as abstinence, calendar, etc.).
Multiple reasons explain the high fertility rates and low use of family planning. High fertility rates in
Paraguay are influenced by the young age women start to establish relationships and have an active sexual
life. Recent estimates indicate that about 25% of Paraguayan women start their sexual life before age 15
and 85% before age 18. Another factor contributing to the high fertility rate is the cultural tolerance to
children off wedlock. Historically, Paraguayan society has been more open to accept single mothers and
children of consensual unions. This also partly explains the high percentage (20%) of single female headed
households in Paraguay.
Regarding the factors influencing the use of contraception, there are two main elements. First, educational
level and knowledge of family planning methods have a significant impact . Illiterate and women with less
than 3 year of schooling show a lower use of family planning and higher fertility rates. The second set of
variables that affects use of family planning are related to access. Women in rural areas do not have access
to reproductive health services and family planning methods and, poor women if they want to use some
form of contraception, in general do not have resources to acquire them.
Youth
The population under 19 years old in Paraguay represents about 51% of the population. While the youth
movement has been actively involved in the current political crises, youth leaders have had little
participation in the discussion of government policies and programs targeted to the youth. The youth and
student movement has received enormous attention and the media has begun to solicit the views of young
people on a wide array of social issues. Two of the key themes raised by the youth have been lack of
opportunities (employment and education) and violence.
Crime rate among youth population is high. However, Paraguay's juvenile justice system is in crisis. Many
young boys who get into trouble with the law are funneled through a prison system rife with human rights
violations, because there are virtually no other resources for treating troubled adolescents. A recent fire on
a juvenile detention center in Asunci6n put in evidence the inhumane conditions of detention and degrading
treatment for the children detained.
Bilingual Education
Paraguay is a multicultural bilingual country. However, the issue is not only the coexistence of two
languages but the clashes and imbrications between two different forms of viewing and organizing social
relations. During centuries the Guarani language and culture was relegated as an informal language to a
colloquial environment. Therefore, in spite that the Guarani had been written and used during the Jesuits-
Missions period, afterwards was not utilized as a formal language for instruction. Under these conditions
the language and culture developed and adapted to new social structures that responded to the
- 80 -



communicative needs of the speakers. Obviously, this process resulted in implicit cognitive structures, a
form of conceiving and providing meanings to reality and, more importantly, a form to apprehend and
constructing it.
This represents a serious challenge to the educational system, particularly because there is no an equal,
equilibrated relationship between the two cultures and languages. Monolingual Guarani speakers coincide
with the poorest stratum of Paraguayan society (either in rural or urban areas). While only a minority is
monolingual in Spanish and most people is bilingual, the vast majority of Guarani speakers (and those who
do not have full command of Spanish) have been discriminated, relegated to subordinated positions, and
marginalized from the access to economic assets. However, at the same time, the Guarani language and
culture has provided the basis for the development of a Paraguayan nationalism, that cut across social
classes.
For more than a century formal education was forced in Spanish, creating a situation in which children,
particularly from poor families, were forced to learn in Spanish at the school while elsewhere they
continued to perform and socialize both in Guarani and Spanish. While the children were able to learn to
read and write in Spanish, there was a dissociation between the cognitive structure in Guarani and the use
of Spanish language. Guarani was only used when the students were not able to understand some concept.
This conduced to a progressive lost in proficiency in Guarani among the younger generations. As a result,
Guarani language was slowly introduced into the educational system, only in primary schools as a way to
keep it alive among the younger generations as part of a nationalist program.
Various studies indicated the need for developing a comprehensive bilingual educational program, not only
as a way to facilitate the learning of concepts but also as mechanism to facilitate the proficiency in both
languages. It has been only recently that Paraguay introduced a bilingual educational program, as part of
the educational reform process. The bilingual educational reform implies using both languages in the
learning process and has as objective gaining proficiency in the use of both languages. Therefore, it
involves not only teaching Guarani and Spanish languages but using them as learning tools for other
subject-maters. At the same time, the bilingual education is a process throughout which the children are
socialized and develop their skills.
Indigenous Peoples
There are 17 different indigenous peoples groups in Paraguay belonging to five different linguistic groups.
According to the indigenous census of 1992, the indigenous population was approximately 50,000.
However, more recent estimates suggest that the indigenous population would be about 70,000 to 80,000,
which represent close to 1.5% of the total population of the country. Inter-census population growth
estimates (from 1981 to 1995) indicates that the indigenous population would be growing at an annual rate
of 3.1%, which is above the national population growth rate.
- 81 -



Table 1: Distribution of Indigenous Population by Department
Department           Total         Indigenous Population
Population
Absolute   % of total
Asunci6n             500,938       70         0.01
Concepci6n           167,289       811        0.48
San Pedro            280,336       1,596      0.57
Cordillera           198,701       0          0
Guaira               161,991       250        0.15
Caaguazu             386,412       2,916      0.75
Caazapa              129,352       922        0.71
Itapiua              377,536       298        0.08
Misiones             89,018        29         0.03
Paraguari            208,527       0          0
Alto ParanA         406,584        2,943      0.72
Central              866,856       665        0.08
Reembucfl            69,770        0          0
Amambay              99,860        7,294      7.30
Canindeyu            103,785       4,078      3.93
Pte. Hayes          64,417         12,995     20.17
Boquer6n             29,060        12,759     43.91
Alto Paraguay        12,156        1,861       15.31
Naci6n              4,152,588      49,487      1.19
Source: 1992 Census
According to the 1992 population census, about 44% of the indigenous population is under 15 years old.
However, there are some differences regarding the composition of the indigenous population between the
Chaco region and the Eastern region indigenous groups, among which the percentage of population under
- 82 -



15 is higher (49% vs 39% in the Chaco region). Fertility rate for indigenous women is in average 5.7i3
which is above the national average. Although fertility rates have decreased over time for all women,
among indigenous women the decline in fertility rates has been slower than for other groups (urban and
rural women).
A large percentage (at least 55%) of the indigenous population is concentrated in the dry occidental region
of the country know as "El Chaco". In the Northeastern region of the country there is about one third of
the indigenous population, while in the Southeastern region of the country resides less than 12% of the total
indigenous population of the country.
About 95% of the indigenous population is rural. Census data does not provide much information
regarding indigenous peoples migration flows. At the international level, there is no significant net
migration flows of indigenous population. Several indigenous groups still have semi-nomadic migration
patterns and dwell across different settlements between Paraguay, Bolivia (Ayoreos), Argentina (Nivacle,
Choiroti, Toba, and Mbya) and Brazil (Pai-Tavytera and Chiripa) 4/
Regarding internal migration, the most significant trend has been the steady migration of indigenous groups
from different groups to the Mennonites colonies in Central Chaco. Still there is little migration of
indigenous peoples to large urban centers such as Asunci6n, Ciudad del Este or Encarnaci6n. Most of the
indigenous migrant to Asunci6n are from Alto Paraguay and in the case of Encarnaci6n correspond to
Mbya groups.
A key issue for rural indigenous communities is land tenure. One of the fundamental values that
distinguishes indigenous communities from the rest of the rural population is their insistence on communal
land holdings. They do not accept individual of family rights to land, although they do recognize usufruct
rights to cultivated land and housing; these are not hereditary and cease if the site is abandoned. This
facilitates movement between communities, allowing families access to natural resources in other areas. In
recent years the movement between communities has reflected the changes in the labor market.
There are no official data regarding indigenous lands. Lands occupied by indigenous groups could be
under four different situations: (i) indigenous lands demarcated; indigenous lands demarcated and titled;
(iii) private lands claimed by indigenous groups and (iv) indigenous (demarcated/titled) lands occupied by
non-indigenous settlers s/.
While INDI has a land regularization and acquisition it has made slow progress in titling indigenous lands
and land acquisitions (through IBR) have benefited only a few communities.
Tables 2 and 3 below summarize the land tenure situation for the different indigenous groups in Paraguay's
Chaco and Oriental regions. Official estimates by INDI suggest that about 50% of the indigenous families
in the Chaco region and 40% of the families in the Eastern region do not have land. It is important to note
that only a small fraction of the lands claimed by indigenous communities are currently titled to indigenous
peoples.
- 83 -



Table 2: Indigenous Lands (Ha) in the Oriental Region
Titled           Demarcated
.(not titled)
Ache           15,600          950
Ava-Guarani    27,750          21,000
Mbya           21,000          31,000
Pai-Tavytera   41,600          16,000
Guarayo        1,045           -
Total          107,095         68,950
Table 3: Indigenous Lands (Ha) in the Occidental (Chaco) Region
Land (ha)
Indigenous communities                    367,649
INDI                                       375,884
ASCIM (Asociaci6n Cooperativa Indigena Menonita 37,433
Misi6n Nuevas Tribus                       15,999
Equipo Nacional de Misones                 3,750
Large landowners, Menonnite colonies*      783,874
Total                                      1,584,589
Lands occupied by indigenous communities
It does not include 600.000 Has, reclamadas por Ayoreo-Totobiegose communities
Source: PRODECHACO/INDI
Most of the indigenous communities live under extreme poverty. While there is no information on income
levels for indigenous groups, current living conditions and productive activities indicate that indigenous
peoples are amongst the poorest groups in Paraguay. Economic activities of indigenous communities
combine hunting, fishing and gathering with subsistence agriculture and seasonal wage labor. About 45%
of the economically active indigenous population has some time of seasonal work, with wages significantly
below the minimum wage. Other 41% do not have economic activities other than subsistence agriculture,
fishing, hunting and gathering.
In 1992, the average infant mortality rate among indigenous communities was 106.7 per 1,000, almost 2.5
times the infant mortality rate for the country (43.3) or the rural areas (44.0). For only 27% of the
indigenous families housing conditions were considered appropriate. Regarding water and sanitation, less
than 5% of the families have access to potable water, about 300/O get their water from dwells and 65% from
open sources, 25% of the households do not have bathroom or latrine, 74% have latrines and only less than
1% have bathroom. Less than 3% of the households are connected to the power grid and 95% uses either
candles or kerosene lamps.
Regarding education, according to the 1992 population census, about 63% of the population 15 years and
older was illiterate, compared to only 14.3% for the rural population. Literacy was higher among men
(60%). There are significant differences on the level of illiteracy among the various groups, ranging from
43% among the Mataco-mataguayo groups to 73% among the Tupi-guarani. Only 9% of the indigenous
- 84 -



population 5 years and older completed 3rd grade and less than 2% completed 6th grade.
Paraguayan legislation (Law 904/1981), defines and regulates what are the indigenous communities,
governing bodies and land tenure system for the communities. According to INDI, 394 communities have
been registered in 14 of the 17 departments of the country. Paraguayan law does not discriminate against
indigenous groups. However, inadequate enforcement of the law, particularly when indigenous peoples are
in conflict with non-indigenous, severely curtails indigenous peoples rights.
Irnplementation of government policies and programs addressing indigenous issues continues to be risky
due to the institutional fragility of INDI. In the last year, some of the responsibilities of INDI with respect
of health, education, and other social and productive services to the indigenous communities have already
being transferred to the Gobernaciones. In addition, in recent months, there have been strong opinions by
high Government officials, on the possibility of dissolving INDI and transferring the responsibilities of the
land regularization to IBR and the Department governments. This transfer would dismantle INDI and
decentralize the responsibilities to agencies and government units that do not have the experience and staff
to deal with indigenous issues. It would be better to ensure the availability of resources to INDI and
estabalish the necessary coordination mechanisms with the departmental government another line agencies
(agriculture, health and education) to ensure that resources available are used properly.
The social organization of the indigenous communities is based on kinship and co-residence. Decision
making within the communities is based on consensus. Any action must be approved by the community.
However, it is important to highlight that indigenous groups do not accept the idea of the majority vote as
binding, and those who are in a minority do not feel obliged to accept or comply with the decisions of the
majority. This cultural trait has important consequences for the establishment of contractual relationships
among members of a community and conflict resolution since if there is no strong agreement, the dissenting
part will walk away from previous commitments.
At the national level there are various indigenous organizations that claim either regional and/or national
representativeness. These organizations do not have independent funding and have to rely on INDI, church
organizations or other civil society groups, such as the Asociaci6n Rural del Paraguay (Cattle-ranchers'
association), churches and NGOs. Furthermore, some of these organizations supporting indigenous
groups seek exclusive relations with particular communities, requiring in some cases that the community
leaders give them exclusive legal powers to represent the community. This situation has generated conflict
among the various organizations and make more difficult for them to contest the social, economic and
religious domination that most indigenous peoples face.
Conclusions and Main Recommendations for Project Design
Poverty Problems. According to potential beneficiaries, main causes of poverty are related to issues of
lack of access to productive assets, lack of employment and poor access to social infrastructure, including
health and education services. Participants also pointed to sociocultural factors related to social exclusion
such as discrimination based on appearance and origin, lack of participation in decision making, social
isolation, lack of experience organizing, clientelistic relationships and passive relations. Notably,
substantial heterogeneity was shown in poverty among communities as well as among households. As a
result, the project would need to support diverse strategies.
Criteriafor Geographic Targeting. Three criteria were proposed for geographic targeting: (i)
concentration of poor (NBI) by sector/neighborhood; (ii) level of accessibility to market and social services;
- 85 -



and (iii) characteristics of the poor (vulnerability).
Eligibility criteria for beneficiaries and Projects. Criteria are established based in the characteristics of
the families and communities (poverty levels), which include income level, housing, and access to
productive resources. Participants pointed out that sub-project selection criteria must not be based strictly
on an economic cost-benefit relationship. Selection of social and productive projects should be based on
criteria of greatest coverage and while also reaching the population most in need. During the focus groups,
participants suggested the following prioritizing criteria; investments which benefit the whole community
and investments which benefit the most vulnerable groups, such as single mothers, widows, large families
and indigenous communities. In the case of indigenous communities, for example, emphasis would be
placed on projects which improve health care in these communities through the activities of voluntary
workers and improve the performance of existing indigenous schools through teacher training and the
incorporation of indigenous knowledge into the educational curriculum.In terms of productive activities,
participants stated that given the shortage of agricultural land, emphasis should be placed on community
investments and activities geared towards the generation of income and off-farm employment.
- 86 -



Matrix of Selected Criteria for Targeting and Project Selection
Types of    Targeting Criteria  Mechanisms for Demand   Selection    Priority  Proj. /Beneficiaries/
Beneficiari                    Detection                Criteria    Activities Municipal
es                                                                             Contributn.
Families    -without or with   -local workshops         - generate  -multi-   -project provides
with wage   little land                                 rural       family     administrative
earner in                      -participative needs     employment  businesse  training and
formal      -with permanent    assessment               for         s          financial resources
sector      wage earning work                           important
-coordination with      sectors of             -beneficiaries
-more than 60% of  associations and        the                    supply labor
income from salary  organizations          community
in agriculture
Families    -dependent on      -participative needs     - generate  -multi-    - project provides
dependent   reimbursements of  assessment              rural        family     administrative
on transfers  working children or                       employment  businesse  training and
subsidies.         -coordination with      for          s         financial resources
associations            important
-predial income is                         sectors of             -beneficiaries
minimal            -coordination with      the                    supply labor
organizations           community
-maintain the
municipalities informed
Families    -more than 60% of  -work with local         -diversify   -         - project provides
with        income is on-farm  associations and         production  productiv technical and
traditional                    organizations that                   e and     financial assistance
agriculture  -problems with    represent the whole     -improve     technical
market and         community               market       assistanc  -beneficiaries
technical assistance                       access       e         supply labor
-cooperation with NGOs
-diversified       working in the zone     -permit                -assistance can be
production with low                        sustainable  diversific  channeled through
returns            -coordinate with        use of       a-tion    NGOs
associations and        resources    and
organizations                        increasin  -municipalities
g         evaluate and
-demonstration workshops             productiv recommend
ity       projects; exempt
agro-industry taxes;
promote and
recognize
neighborhood
groups
- 87-






MAP SECTION






B 0z L I V I A                                  \\     '    /        t                                   e
BOLIVIA gXPAI rUNrill^Afu'R                           p I    /        F                         L
/                 H    A
2       tA   i>t -. 0  rsrr-r>  o E.rsrcU 4Jr                         B     R   A     Z    I   L
FF2-F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     -
/  Ccr n 1eo enre a p mwf~R      C D \,E 
F         --                        "  ^ -            F-----F-?--
BUMN SURAE ROADS
F?      ff, i - ,r  4  ~p:  /          -FFF \Fr,,. R ,.  F ,,   F,,,,,3F.FFFZ  ,   -
Fr      JFFFTh                A    Cl tH   4  z c 9g       0, -                       , Fl )                     23
-F3F        59             j 2    A   F ,     -         _          __ }Sn 24FF FF-FF
/11/ 4<|| a I  NOUSm SURFACED ROADS UNDER CONSTCTION4
>4s\      <              t-ge3 3~~~Fr,R     C'A-INDEYU    Y
PARAGUAY                                 -                            70           FM-_4 
-   RITAM NODS SUR FACED ROADS                                           FFFFF ~15| Cuz  >  ~  . -  -
ITJMFNOUA SURFACED ROADS UNDER CONSTUCTION
_ RAVEL / [ARID  SURFACED kOADS              i  '
RAIL"VAYS                                                      -
2FF         -F-----' R~~WIVRSAFFJ
COUJNTRE REC-30N DMRIS" N                          )                                    F
-- DEERTFMENT ROUNDARES_
INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES                         F     -                                Ft
4p 6S JR                                   --              -X P FA> *<      J
r  F    E3   23c  FO               -rF                   t  5 >               .-J
t2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WFFFF                                              '"^ -t                       6 2
>-  4-~~~~~~>~~~ V 1
Fr  F  30   F-                                                   FFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



