Report No. PID10533
Project Name                     PARAGUAY-Pilot Community Development Project   @
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       PYPE69269
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Implementing Agency
Address SOCIAL ACTION SECRETARIAT
(SECRETARIA DE ACCION SOCIAL)
Secretaria de Accion Social
Address: Presidente Franco esquina Ayolas,
Edificio AYFRA, 2do piso
Contact Person: Dr. Aurelio A. Varela C.,
Ministro Secretario Ejecutivo
Tel: (595 21) 496-799
Fax: (595 21) 447-745
Email: Avarela@presidencia.gov.py
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 26, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 8, 2001
Projected Board Date             February 21, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Paraguay's growth performance during the 1990s has been disappointing.
Between 1990 and 1999 per capita income has fallen by 4 percent with most
of the deterioration occurring within the last five years. Since 1995 the
economy has been contracting four straight years with real per capita GDP
falling by 6.5w during the period, resulting in the worst macroeconomic
performance in all Latin America. Recent government figures indicate that
in 2000 GDP had contracted by 0.4w and that the agricultural sector had
declined by 8.5w. In addition, an extended bank crisis, falling
agricultural prices and other shocks have combined to produce an extended
recession. Paraguay is a country where poverty is explained in part by
lack of strong institutions (state and civil society) and the
underutilization of the country's resources of labor and land and the lack
of forward and backward linkages between productive sectors. During the
first half of 2001 progress has been made in meeting macroeconomic
targets. Although the government will not meet the IMF targets for the
2001, fiscal deficit has been decreased at the expenses of capital
spending. However, more needs to be done, particularly advancing with the
privatization of state-owned companies in 2002. Growth is expected to
stabilize in 2002 as investment spending rises, exports growth and
consumer spending levels off. Recently, the exchange rate experienced a
depreciation of more than 25t in nominal terms and almost 18t in real
terms since the start of 2001, and most likely the GuaranU to continue to
fall for the rest of 2001 before appreciating mildly against the US dollar
in 2003.Poverty and Social ExclusionAccording to the national statistics



bureau, total population in 2000 was estimated at 5.5 million people, of
which about 46% lived in rural areas, a much higher rate than other Latin
American countries. Although the population growth rate has fallen since
the 1980/1990 from   3.1% to 2.7% in the 1990s, this rate still is
significantly higher than the average of 1.59 for other middle income
countries. Most of the population (65%) is under 29 years old and four
out of ten people are under 15 years old. A small proportion of the
population is of indigenous origin. There are some 70,000 indigenous
peoples from 17 different ethnic groups (estimates range from 38,000 to
120,000). About two-thirds of the indigenous population lives in the
Chaco.The overall poverty rate for Paraguay between 1995 and 1999
increased from 30% to 34%-.  There are significant variations in the
distribution of poverty, between urban (26.79) and rural (42%) areas,
regions of the country, and social groups. A large part of the increase in
poverty has been in the countryside. In 1995, there were 1.5 million poor
of whom 670,000 were extremely poor. In 1999, the number of poor had
increased to 1.8 million, of which 830,000 were extremely poor. Of the
net increase in extreme poverty between 1995 and 1999, most of it (94%)
took place in rural areas, where the percentage of extreme poor rose from
75% to 79%.   Poverty rates are substantially higher (44.5%) in areas in
the central region of the country along the corridor from Asuncion to
Ciudad del Este, in the northern region (61.5%), and in the North-east
region. Even in highly productive departments there are significant
areas where poverty rates surpass the national or regional average.
During the last decades, the social and economic structure of the southern
region of Paraguay (Departments of Itapua, Misiones, and ieembucu) has
experienced significant impacts due to agricultural, industrial and
commercial depression. Economic growth in Paraguay has been dualistic,
this is particularly evident in the Southern departments of the country,
where the urban sector (commerce, services and industrial activities) and
some modern agricultural producers have experienced growth. However, at
the same time, the urban poor, and particularly, small farmers have not
experienced much benefits from that growth. This phenomenon, associated
with other structural and macroeconomic factors, has contributed to a
persistent deterioration in the living conditions of the poor, both rural
and urban, and in the decline of traditional sources of employment and the
loss of small producer's capital. Comparatively, in aggregate terms,
poverty is less severe in the departments of Itapua, Misiones and ieembucu
than in the North and Central regions. However, according to the 1992
population census, in all three departments the percentage of households
with at least two unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) was above the national
average. Furthermore, there are sharp differences in the distribution of
poverty within the departments. Poverty levels in several districts of
the three departments is as high as that observed in the poorest regions
of the country. This is particularly true for some peri-urban areas near
Ecarnaci6n (Itapua) San Patricio, Santa Rosa and Santa MarUa (Misiones)
and in all rural districts. In relative terms, the Departments of Misiones
and ieembucu are poorer than the Department of Itapua. In contrast,
figures on absolute poverty show Itapua with over four times the number of
households with two or more unsatisfied NBI than either ieembucu or
Misiones.Comparative Population and Poverty IndicatorsArea (Km2)Population
(2000)Pop. Growth rate- Rural Pop. (2000)Poverty Headcount rate
(1998)Households with 2 or more NBI (1992)Total pop. in households with 2
or more NBI
(1992)Paraguay4O6,7525,496,4502.7%45.5%33.7%30.9%1,270,496North
-2 -



Region6l.5 5tCentral
Region44.5 5%Itapual6,525490,9693.69W66.3 3%36.797%33.4 4%125,278Misiones9,556100,3
851.40A49.2238.3236.9233,667ieembucul2,14788,285-0.10W52.99
36.5A43.7%30,816The increased demands placed on local institutions, such
as municipalities, to address the needs of growing communities are further
exaggerated by the government's decentralization initiative. The
decentralization process has yet to be fully effective. While the
constitution introduced a new intermediate tier of government in the form
of 17 departments, with directly elected departmental councils and
departmental governors and autonomous municipal governments (217) in the
country, their powers, responsibilities and financing are vaguely
defined. The central government continues to control a large percentage
of the resources and local institutions remain weak in their capacity to
design and manage local development programs. In fact, of total
government expenditures, departmental level expenditures (Gobernaciones)
represent less than lt of the total.B. Government StrategyParaguay faces
key challenges. Meager economic growth, deterioration in the external
accounts, negative terms of trade, depressed domestic demand, slow
progress in the privatization process and modernization of the State among
other issues have contributed to worsen the economic and social context,
weakening the policy-making environment. Nevertheless, the current
administration is struggling to meet the targets set out with the IMF and
the Bank to improve public finances and to develop sustainable economic
and social development policies. Key to these efforts are macroeconomic
policies aimed at fiscal discipline, low inflation and interest rates, and
an exchange rate that encourages productive activities. At the same time,
in addition to macroeconomic targets, the government is developing a
specific poverty reduction strategy to curve the increasing poverty rates,
that represent a daunting political and social challenge for policy
makers. Since the early 1990s, the government has implemented several
poverty alleviation related programs. Most of these initiatives were
implemented by different government agencies, without much coordination
among them and, the impact of these programs were not monitored properly.
Recently, the Government has taken the initiative of preparing a poverty
reduction strategy (Paraguay is not part of the group of countries which
have prepared such strategies as a conditionality for receiving debt
relief under the Highly Indebted and Poor Countries initiative). The
SecretarUa de Acci6n Social is in charge of preparing the strategy. To
this end, it has requested technical assistance from the World Bank and
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).The SecretarUa de Acci6n
Social (Social Action Secretariat, SAS), under the President's Office, has
the mandate of coordinating the development, implementation and monitoring
of the government's poverty alleviation strategy. As such, the SAS can
directly implement poverty alleviation-related activities or, establish
agreements with other government agencies to transfer resources for
poverty alleviation programs, collaborate with them in the design,
implementation and monitoring of these programs. Since its establishment
in 1997, SAS has been responsible for the implementation of three poverty
alleviation programs: (i) PROPAIS, a social fund with the support of the
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). From January 1997 to February
2001, PROPAIS had financed about 580 subprojects (US$ 26.9 million)
reaching some 300,000 beneficiaries. Currently, the Government and IADB
are preparing a new loan (PROPAIS II) for an estimated US$ 30 million that
would support social sub-projects in small rural and urban communities
(less than 5000 people) and slum upgrading (Mejoramiento de Barrios) in
-3 -



large cities. While the proposed project would support community
development activities (water and sanitation, community infrastructure,
training, etc.), it would not provide financial assistance for
demand-based income generating sub-projects. (ii) Programa de Atenci6n
Integral al Nito y Adolescente Trabajador de la Calle (US$ 8 million IADB
grant). This program, scheduled to be completed by July 2001 provided
support to street children. (iii) Sistema de Capacitaci6n en Gesti6n y
Proyectos Sociales (US$ 0.7 million). This program seeks to develop and
establish a monitoring unit capable of providing follow-up to poverty
alleviation projects and technical assistance to implementing units when
required. The project ended in August 2001.Rural Investment Pilot (US$ 5
million). The pilot is being carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture
under the World Bank supported Natural Resources Management project. The
pilot, launched in November 1996 had the objectives of: (i) increasing the
income of rural poor families; (ii) increasing productivity, and (iii)
creating employment opportunities for the rural poor by developing
sustainable natural resources management strategies and supporting income
generating sub-projects. The pilot targeted poor rural households in the
Departments of Caazapa, Caaguazu and Cordillera. Despite some significant
delays in its implementation, the pilot has successfully supported about
325 sub-projects (US$4.2 million). The government has requested the Bank
to reallocate an additional US$7.0 million to the Pilot and expand its
coverage from the current three departments to nine (including Itapua), as
well as, has requested an extension of the closing date of the pilot until
December 2002. Onondivepa, Poverty Alleviation Program. This program was
established in November 1999 under the Ministry of Work and Justice, seeks
to fight poverty by increasing the planning capacity of local governments
and strengthening democratic institutions. The program supports social
infrastructure projects (education, health) and some productive (income
generating) activities. Activities are focalized in extreme poverty
districts (based on NBI), including Concepci6n, Caaguazu, ieembucu and
Chaco, among others.SecretarUa de la Mujer. The Women's Secretariat (SM),
established in 1992, has multiple programs targeted at advancing women's
rights and improving women's quality of life and opportunities. The SM
has five main programs: (i) Social participation (Red de Centros de
Iniciativas y Desarrollo para la Mujer), a program that supports
networking and women leaders' participation in public decision-making
processes; (ii) Institutional strengthening and training on gender issues
and equality for departmental and municipal government officials; (iii)
Research on gender issues and poverty; (iv) Social services aimed at
providing social and financial help to women in need, and finally a (v)
Social Investment Fund that supports small social infrastructure and
income generating projects for women's groups.Direcci6n de Beneficencia y
Ayuda Social (DIBEN). The social welfare office has three main programs:
(i) Human development; (ii) Social action, and (iii) Emergency. These
social programs provide financial help to vulnerable groups including
among others, street children, the elderly, and people affected by natural
disasters.   Their coverage is small and conditioned by budgetary
constraints. In year 2000, total budget for all programs country-wide was
less than US$ 900,000.   C. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the
ProjectParaguay is in the process of consolidating a democratic
transition. Democratic institutions are still weak and the political
system is moving from a one party system to a multi-party system shaped by
clientelistic relationships and local "bosses". Local governments have
little capacity and no real power in terms of budget allocations and
- 4 -



decision making. Civil society confidence in the Government and national
institutions is low. Politicians, the judicial system, the armed forces,
and the government are less trusted than other types of organizations such
as the catholic church, unions and peasant organizations. Strengthening
democratic institutions and decreasing corruption are seen by the
population as key issues to be resolved for the development of the country
and the implementation of a poverty reduction strategy.The lack of trust
in the government and the political system contributes to the absence of
good governance. Among other things, this situation has led to a lack of
vision and coordination regarding poverty programs and policies. There
are numerous small programs benefiting the poor directly or indirectly
which are managed by different agencies with little coordination and in a
clientelistic fashion. The targeting of these programs for the poor tends
not be very good. Furthermore, existing data suggest that allocation of
resources fore poverty alleviation and social programs in some cases has
been influenced by political bosses. Poverty alleviation and local
development projects have not resulted from well coordinated state-civil
society collaboration. Partnerships between civil society organizations
(CSOs) and various levels of government (central and local) is improving
only slowly. The collaboration has taken place primarily at the project
level, with CSOs providing services to beneficiaries of government
programs. These experiences, although limited, have legitimized the role
of CSOs as efficient service providers. The development of a state-civil
society synergy will require a state that actively removes the obstacles
that impede the enjoyment or exercise of rights, and the development of a
new relationship between the state, the political system and civil
society. The development of a culture of partnerships and
co-responsibility in public management will also require expanding the
capacities of local governments and communities to undertake development
activities. The Government is taking steps to improve its coordination of
social policies and programs. The SecretarUa de Acci6n Social was created
to improve the allocation and effectiveness of public programs targeted to
the poor. However, there still is much to be done in terms of clearly
identifying the specific responsibilities of each agency. Most poverty
alleviation related programs implemented by the government have focused
on issues related to lack of income, access to services (social
infrastructure), and welfare of marginal groups. Little progress has been
made in developing a more participatory approach to poverty alleviation
that would link issues related to material deprivation and access to
markets and services with social exclusion related to lack of
participation, and exclusion of groups based on gender, age, or ethnic
identity.
2. Objectives
The Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project seeks to improve the
quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural and marginal urban
communities in three departments on the southern border of Paraguay
(Itapua, Misiones and ieembucu). The project will contribute to poverty
alleviation and to the development of the capacity of local communities to
implement community development activities by: (i) creating income
generating opportunities for poor communities, and (ii) building capacity
of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design
and implement community development activities.To achieve this objective,
the project would: (i) finance small grants for demand-based income
generation and community development sub-projects; (ii) support
- 5-



institutional development activities for strengthening the capacity of
local governments and community organizations in the planning, design,
implementation and evaluation of community development projects; and
(iii) develop a monitoring and evaluation system that would allow the
project to check implementation progress and project's impacts and to
learn about the sustainability of the different instruments and delivery
mechanisms implemented and to adapt, disseminate and mainstream those that
work.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is collaborating with the Government of Paraguay in providing
technical assistance along with UNPD for the preparation of the country's
Poverty Reduction Strategy that the government has voluntarily undertaken
(Paraguay is not required to prepare a PRSP). The Bank's involvement
with the proposed project is considered important because it would
support the government's effort to develop the capacity for coordinating
and implementing targeted poverty alleviation interventions. The Bank's
involvement would also contribute to test decentralized and participatory
institutional and implementation arrangements that otherwise would not be
possible to pilot. In addition, the Bank's support would contribute to
the development of partnerships between civil society and the government
at the national and local levels, as well as to increase the
accountability of these operations. Finally, the Bank's involvement will
make a substantial contribution to the design of socially inclusive
poverty alleviation and community development programs that would lead to
decreasing social exclusion and clientelistic relationships with the poor
and vulnerable groups.
4. Description
1. Community Investment Fund
2. Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
3. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                                   1.2
IBRD 9.0
Communities                              1.6
Total Project Cost                        11.3
6. Implementation
Implementation PeriodThe project will be implemented over a period of 48
months.Institutional and Implementation ArrangementsThe institutional
arrangements of the project have been designed to build upon the existing
capacity and experience of the Social Action Secretariat (SAS) and seek to
develop the capacity of the central government, local (Departmental and
Municipal) governments and civil society for establishing partnerships
aimed at implementing community development and socially inclusive
programs. The institutional arrangements of the project are based on
three principles: (i) highly participatory mechanisms to ensure that local
level institutions, private sector and civil society collaborate; (ii)
transparency in decision making through the establishment of Local
Consultative Committees (CCL) and Departmental Development Councils (CDD)
which would be responsible for social auditing, verify eligibility
- 6 -



criteria and assess subproject proposals, respectively and; (iii)
strengthening of local institutions and development of the skills required
for identifying, planning and implementing socially inclusive community
development and poverty alleviation activities at the local level.The
executing agency, SAS, would implement the project in accordance with the
project Operational Manual. Presentation of the final version of the
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. Implementation would be guided by annual
operating plans (POAs), which would be submitted to the Bank for its
no-objection by October 15 of the previous year. The specific
responsibility for project coordination and implementation will lie with
the Project Management Unit (UGP), under the Project Coordination
Directorate of SAS -which has the responsibility of implementing other
multilateral and international cooperation projects, including the
IADB-financed PROPAIS. The UGP will comprise a Technical Unit (UT) and an
Administrative Unit (UA), which would coordinate the technical and
administrative aspects of the project and oversee implementation functions
decentralized to local institutions. The UGP will be headed by a Project
Coordinator and staffed with technical and administrative staff. Specific
inter-institutional agreements have been established with the Ministry of
Agriculture, Women's Secretariat, Environment and Sustainable Development
Secretariat, Vice-Ministry of Youth, Departmental (Gobernaciones) and
Municipal (Intendencias) governments to ensure their collaboration in
project implementation. The signed agreement will be part of the
Operational Manual.The UGP will be headed by a Coordinator and staffed
with a small core team of Specialists which will oversee project
implementation, provide technical assistance to the CCLs and CDDs and
service providers. For each of the three Departments there will be a
Community Development Agent who will promote project activities and
follow-up project implementation with project beneficiaries and civil
society. A Department Development Council (CDD) will be established in
each of the three Departments. The CDDs will consist of representatives
of the Departmental Government, Municipal Governments, beneficiary groups,
civil society and a specialist from the UGP. The CDD will assess
subproject proposals and to ensure technical standards and sustainability
and that the proposals are consistent with a departmental strategy. Local
Consultative Committees (CCL) will be established to assist with the
promotion of the demand for project activities, identification of
potential beneficiaries, establishment of new groups, verification of
targeting and eligibility criteria of sub-project proposals, and to ensure
social control of project implementation on the ground. Based on the
characteristics of the area, the CCLs could group municipalities (up to 4)
that have similar characteristics. The CCLs will consist of
representatives of local government, beneficiaries and the community
development agent. Qualified technical assistance providers (NGOs,
private providers, CBOs, CSOs) will assist beneficiary groups in the
identification, preparation and implementation of the sub-projects as
required. Funding for the technical assistance of the sub-projects will be
included in the proposal amount. Proposals could be developed throughout
the year in accordance with procedures to be outlined in the Operational
Manual, however, they would be presented through the CCL to the CDD for
their assessment every three months. Monitoring and evaluation
arrangementsA monitoring and results assessment area would be established
within the PCU and a comprehensive project Management Information System
(MIS) would be developed for project implementation. This MIS would
-7 -



complement the existing system (SIFEM) within SAS, developed with the
assistance of CEPAL to support monitoring, financial management and
administrative management tasks of SAS projects. It would allow recording
of physical and financial information related to project implementation
for financial management purposes and tracking of project performance.
Included in the semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank,
the PCU would include an update of the status of the various indicators
for project implementation -physical and financial- and development
performance, based on system information related to the control and
supervision of beneficiary subprojects. In addition, SAS would prepare
and submit an Annual Operating Plan (POA) for Bank review in the month of
October (15) of each year, including documentation evidencing sufficient
allocation of funds in its budget to cover for the need of counterpart
funds raised by planned activities. As part of regular project
supervision activities, joint SAS/Bank annual reviews would be undertaken,
including an in-depth Mid-Term Review. Independent evaluation of the
project's socioeconomic impact would be conducted through baseline and
final evaluation studies. In addition, annual beneficiary assessments
will be carried out to ensure that beneficiaries' perspectives are
satisfactorily reflected in the monitoring of project activities.
7. Sustainability
The project's sustainability depends on: (i) the likelihood of the
subprojects being successful, (ii) community participation and the
functioning of the CCLs and CDDs, and (iii) the capacity of SAS to absorb
and replicate the lessons. It is expected the project would be
sustainable, as it comprises specific activities that would improve the
technical design of the subprojects, strengthen social capital and
community involvement, and would contribute to systematize, analyze and
learn from the project implementation process. First, regarding the
subprojects' sustainability, the project is based on demand and
beneficiary participation in the selection and design of the subprojects.
Also, technical assistance would be provided to beneficiary groups to help
them to organize, develop their technical skills related (required for)
the subproject, and strengthen their organizational and administrative
skills. The technical assistance provided would address a series of
technical, organizational and managerial issues that would increase the
sustainability of the subprojects. With regards to community
participation and the functioning of the CCLs and CDDs, the project's
sustainability would be ensured by the project's approach which involves
clear and transparent rules and procedures to ensure fair participation of
the different stakeholders, support to local organizations and civil
society and providing technical assistance to the CCLs and CCDs to perform
their responsibilities. In reference to the capacity of SAS to learn from
the pilot, the project supports a monitoring and evaluation system and
special studies that would allow the project unit and SAS to systematize
the information that would be generated, analyze it, disseminate and
discuss periodically with other government agencies, local governments and
civil the ongoing results and lessons emerging from the
project.Nevertheless, there are potential problems that may hamper the
project's sustainability. First, due to the state reform and lack of
budget, SAS (or the Ministry of Social Action that could replace it) might
face a significant attrition in its operational capabilities. Second, due
to the existing sociopolitical problems and the current lack of capacity
at the local level, the capacity building and participation process
- 8 -



required for full beneficiary participation and normal functioning of the
CCLs and CDDs may take longer than expected, delaying project
implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Within Paraguay: Paraguay has limited experience with targeted assistance
to the poor. Most social programs are not well targeted and the
Government has only recently initiated a dialogue with different
stakeholders to develop a poverty reduction strategy that will guide
future poverty-targeted interventions. Nevertheless, the government has
accumulated some experience with targeted poverty alleviation
interventions through the ongoing Rural Investment Pilot (financed by the
World Bank) executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Social Fund
Propais (IADB financed) executed by the SAS. These projects have provided
important lessons that are reflected in the design of the proposed
project. First, these projects strongly suggest the need for a
decentralized demand-driven approach to provide technical and financial
assistance to the poor. Second, the experience gained with these projects
has highlighted the need for transparent and objective eligibility and
targeting criteria to ensure that funds will go to the intended
beneficiaries (and all eligible groups have equal access to project
benefits), minimizing potential leaks and political manipulation of the
funds. Third, and related to the above, the experience indicates that
participation and social auditing mechanisms are crucial. Participation
in project implementation is important but participatory monitoring
(social auditing) is essential to ensure accountability, minimize
clientelism and proper use of funds. A final lesson learned is the need
for continuing provision of technical and organizational assistance to
ensure the development of social capital and to improve the sustainability
of the subprojects. Lack of technical assistance and/or focusing it only
on "narrowly-defined technical issues" leaving out organizational
development and administrative skills has hampered the sustainability of
past investments. To increase the sustainability of the investments and
to minimize the risk of failure, the proposed project would support
through decentralized, participatory mechanisms the implementation and
monitoring of community development investments by providing technical
assistance (through qualified service providers) to local governments and
community groups to organize and acquire the required skills to identify,
design and implement community development projects.Bank-wide:Among the
lessons learned from the Social Investment Funds (SIFs) in Latin America,
it is clear that most SIFs have complemented and reinforced structural
adjustment and reform policies. Most SIFs have targeted their resources
well to reach the poor, making a significant contribution to poverty
reduction and have proven to be effective in channelling external aid and
resources directly to the community level. Employment generation by SIFs,
while modest in relation to the labor force or the number of under and
unemployed, was significant in benefitting poor population groups. SIFs
have begun to have a meaningful impact on the operations of the social
sector ministries as well as on central water and sanitation entities. In
addition, SIFs targeting techniques are being used by some line
ministries, which are beginning to press for reforms in order to employ
cost controls, management information systems and simplified procurement
and payment systems used by SIFs. However, the long term sustainability of
the investments in the SIFs, as well as the ownership by the communities
of the investments has been questioned. While social/community
-9-



infrastructure is needed, it has been shown that the sustainability of
these investments increases when they are associated with income
generating activities and social capital development. In that context, the
lack of long term technical assistance linked to most of the SIFs
community infrastructure investments has hampered their sustainability.In
the case of the Brazil - Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects, the main
lessons learned applicable to the Pilot project are in the areas of
decentralization, participation, and poverty targeting mechanisms.
Decentralization of investment decision-making and implementation to
community organizations, ensures efficient program implementation
administration and superior outcomes. Participation by beneficiaries in
the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects ensures that
investment meets genuine community needs, leads to cost savings, and
increases community 'ownership' leading to improved sustainability of
investments. Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and
based on objective criteria can foster transparency, minimize political
interference in project resource allocation and ensures that project
resources reach the poorest areas. India - Singrauli Project:A parallel
was established between the proposed operation and the Social and
Environmental Development Project in Singrauli, Uttar Pradesh, India.
The following types of risks were identified: (i) reputational - direct
or indirect association with Yacyreta - NGOs will use the proposed
project to hold the Bank accountable for negative impacts and exposure to
Yacyreta.; (ii) project dragged to attend complaints by Yacyreta affected
families and capture of benefits by local elites; and (iii) lack of
ownership by the government.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Most project activities are likely to have no
negative environmental impacts. Most of the sub-projects to be supported
are likely to either have neutral or positive environmental impacts. Some
sub-projects (agricultural productivity and small cottage industries) may
pose minor environmental risks. Appropriate environmental screening
criteria and procedures ("Procedimientos Ambientales para Determinar los
Impactos Ambientales de los Proyectos con Fondos Sociales", in project
files) for all subprojects have been developed and found satisfactory by
the Bank. Institutional arrangements have been agreed to guarantee the
participation of local or municipal environmental offices in the screening
of all sub-projects, thus ensuring further local capacity building. The
criteria and procedures were applied to a set of projects that have
already been identified in participating provinces and all projects were
found to be Category B according to Bank policies. The criteria and
procedures were also discussed with and approved by the Sub-secretary of
Natural resources and Environment in the Ministry of Environment, in
charge of the EIA system in Paraguay. Appropriate technical guidance will
be provided to projects to deal with siting, construction techniques and
management of wastes as appropriate.Technical assistance and participation
of local agencies in the screening of projects will be further
strengthened by training and environmental awareness programs implemented
in parallel to the sub-projects.
11. Contact Point:
- 10 -



Task Manager
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 4320
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Dec. 14, 2001.
- 11 -



