                                        Document of
                                   The World Bank

                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   Report No: 42416-PY




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                           ON A

                   PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

                       INTHEAMOUNT OF US$9.0MILLION

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                          FOR A

                  PILOT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                                    February 29,2008




Latin America and CaribbeanRegion
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and UruguayCountryManagementUnit
Sustainable Development Sector ManagementUnit

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective: February 29,2008)
                   Currency Unit = Guarani(G.)
                             G.l = US$0.0002128
                           US$I = G. 4,700.00

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1    - December31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCP      Central Bank of Paraguay (Banco Central de Paraguay)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community DrivenDevelopment
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMU      Country Management Unit
DC       Departmental Committee
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FSL      Fixed-Spread Loan
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFA      Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
LC       Local Committee
LDP      Local Development Professional
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OP       Operational Policy
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PRODERS  SustainableRural Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural
         Sustentable)
SAS      Social Action Secretariat (Secretariade Accidn Social)
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
Sub-UAF  Financial Administration Sub-Unit (sub-Unidad de Administracidn
         Financiera)
UA       Administrative Unit(UnidadAdministrativa)
UIFR     Unaudited InterimFinancial Reports
UNDP     UnitedNations Development Programme
UT       Technical Unit (Unidad Te'cnica)

                      Vice President      PamelaCox
                   Country Director       Pedro Alba
                     Sector Director      Laura Tuck
                    Sector Manager        McDonald Benjamin
                        Task Leader       Estanislao Gacitua-Mari6



                                    11
                                    a .

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                        Project Paper Data Sheet
       Date: February29,2008                            Team Leader: EstanislaoGaci~a-Mario




       Borrower: Republic of Paraguay
       Responsibleagency: SocialAction Secretariat(Secretaria de Accion Social)
       Revisedestimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
       FY                    2009            2010            2011
       Annual                0.80            4.00            4.20
       Cumulative            0.80            4.80            9.00
       Current closing date: September 30, 2008




       Revisedproject developmentobjectives/outcomes:

       The proposedobjective of the Additional Financingremainthe same as under the original project,
       except that it would seek to support the scaling-up beyond the original three Departments to
       include an additional five Departments, specifically: Caaguazu, Central, Cordillera, Guaira and
       Paraguari. The project objectives, hence, remain to (i)support small productive, income
       generating and community development subprojects for poor communities; and (ii)build and
       strengthen capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design and
       implementthese activities.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                     ...
                                                     111

Doesthe scaled-upor restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies?

As the Additional Financing would fund activities already approved under the original project
design, the initialEnvironmentalCategory ratingof B would be maintained.

Based on supervision duringthe ongoingProject,as well as the EnvironmentalAppraisalfor the
Additional Financing, the Pest Management OperationalPolicy 4.09 has beentriggered.Pesticide
use is prevalent inthe context of small-farmerproductionin Paraguay.While agriculturalprojects
are a minorityof sub-projects funded under the ongoing Project,to diminishrisks associatedwith
this type of production a Pest Management Plan has been prepared and incorporated into the
OperationalManuaVEnvironmentalManagementFramework underthe Additional Financing.

Giventhe expandedcoverageofthe projectandthe inclusionof new areas, the Forestsand
NaturalHabitatsSafeguardPolicies(OP 4.36 andOP 4.04) are also beingtriggered, eventhough,
no commercialharvestingofnativeforests or large-scaleplantationforestryhas beenfinanced in
the first phaseofthe Projectnor is beingcontemplatedunderthe Additional Financing.Similarly,
noneofthe activitiescontemplatedimply significantlydegradingor convertingnaturalhabitats.

The Additional Financingtriggers OP 4.10. The design of the original project was based on a
comprehensive social assessment carried out during preparation, with a particular emphasis on
indigenous peoples as a beneficiary target group of the project. Throughout the project cycle,
extensive consultations with indigenous representatives were held to assess their particular
priorities and needs. Based on the lessons learned, an indigenous Peoples PlanningFramework
(IPPF) has been agreed with the Borrower. Additionally, consultations with indigenous
representatives would continue and in due course would provide the basis for the preparationof
the sub-projects.

As expected under the original project design, the ongoing original project has not created any
situation of involuntary resettlement or land acquisition. Since the additional financing will
continue supportingthe same type of communityprojects, OP/BP 4.12 has not beentriggered.




                                   For Additional Financing
[XI Loan      [ ] Credit  [] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
         Total Bank financing (US$m.): 9.00
         Proposedterms: Fixed-SpreadLoan(FSL)
                                   FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                    Source                          Local         Foreign           Total
Borrower                                                 2.19            0.18             2.38
IBRD/IDA                                                 8.22            0.78             9.00
Loca1Communities                                          1.27           0.00             1.27
Total                                                    11.69           0.96            12.65




                                              iv

                                               Paraguay

                     PilotCommunityDevelopmentProject
                                    AdditionalFinancing

                                        Table of Contents
ProjectPaper Data Sheet
I.Introduction..............................................................................................................
                               ...........................................................................................       ...
                                                                                                                                 111
                                                                                                                                  1
I1
I11 ProposedChanges.................................................................................................. 6
 ..BackgroundandRationalefor                 Additional Financing.............................................                    2


V. Appraisal of Scaled-upProject Activities.,..........................................................
IV. Consistencywith CAS          .........................................................................................       10
                                                                                                                                -10
VI ExpectedOutcomes.............................................................................................
  .                                                                                                                              14
VI1.BenefitsandRisks..............................................................................................               15
VI11 FinancialTerms and ConditionsFor The AdditionalFinancing
    .                                                                                                     ...................... 17
Annex A EstimatedAdditional ProjectCosts                         ...........................................................     18
Annex BFinancialManagementAssessment                             ........................................................... 19
Annex C Procurement
Annex D IndigenousPeoplesPlanningFramework..................................................
                           ...............................................................................................       27
                                                                                                                                 33


I.Introduction

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional loan in an amount of US$9.00 million to the Republic of Paraguay for the
Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project (P069269) (Ln.7109-PA).

2.       The proposed additional loan, combined with US$2.38 million in counterpart
funds and US$1.27 million of beneficiary contributions, would help finance the costs
associated with the scaling-up of activities to enhance the impact of this well-performing
Project. No major changes are proposed to the ongoing Project other than the extension
of coverage to an additional five departments in Paraguay. The Additional Financing
would continue to support - through a decentralized, participatory and bottom-up
development approach - (i)small productive income-generating and community
development subprojects for poor communities, and (ii)capacity-building of local
institutions and beneficiary organizations inthe identification, design and implementation
of these activities.

3.       Under the scaled-up activities, the Project is expected to benefit an additional
5,000 poor families, including over 27,500 beneficiaries, for a total beneficiary
population of 10,000 families and more than 55,000 beneficiaries over the duration of the
entire Project. Institutional strengthening and capacity building in designing,
implementing and monitoring community development projects and activities would
benefit local governments in all eight departments (up to a total of 149 municipalities),
thus contributing to an increase in the physical, social and human capital in the
participating areas and communities. About 80 % of the Additional Financing would be
for direct support to subprojectsthrough grants and technical assistance.

4.       Partnership arrangements: While no specific partnership arrangements with other
international financial institutions are expected under the Additional Financing, the
Project would closely coordinate and define mechanisms to strengthen synergies and
avoid overlaps with other operations and activities in the eight target departments.
Specifically, the project would define a common strategy with two complementary and
recently approved Japan Social Development Funds (JSDF) grants working in selected
indigenous areas in Eastern Paraguay: Indigenous Community Development and
Indigenous Lands Regularization. Similarly, in the same area, the Project would also
coordinate with the proposed Bank-financed Sustainable Rural Development Project
(Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural Sustentable, PRODERS) to ensure complementarity and
avoid overlaps of activities.

5.       Additionally, the Project is specifically designed to develop even stronger
linkages betweenthe Project and Government social programs and institutions, the local
private sector, and civil society organizations operating inthe area. Partnershipsunder the
ongoing Project were established with, amongst others, the Ministry of Agriculture, The
Secretariat for Women, the Environmental Secretariat, The Paraguayan Institute for
Indigenous Peoples (INDI), Departmental and Municipal governments, the National

University (the Faculty of Veterinary Sciences), and the local private sector which have
yielded benefits to participating families and communities in the form of technical
assistance, capacity-building opportunities, and   -- in a few cases   --participation in
supply-chain relationships.


11.Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing
6.      Original Pro-iect Design: The Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project
(Proyecto Piloto de Desarollo Comunitario, PRODECO) became effective on May 9,
2003. The total project cost was US$11.18 million, of which US$9.00 million was
provided by the IBRD Loan, US$l.15 million by the Government, and US$1.03 million
by the beneficiaries. The project closing date has been extended twice (from December
3 1,2006 until December 3 1,2007 and, from December 3 1,2007 to September 30,2008),
to allow proper closing of sub-project activities and to strengthen their long term
sustainability, as well as to allow for bridging between current activities under
PRODECO and the proposed additional financing.

7.     The Project seeks to test a decentralized, participatory, bottom-up development
approach as a way to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural and
marginal urban communities in three Departments on the southern border of Paraguay
(Itapua, Misiones, and fieembucu). Objectives under the Original Project are two-fold: to
(i)support small productive, income-generating and community development sub-
Projects for poor communities, and (ii) capacity o f local institutions and beneficiary
                                        build
organizations to identify, design and implementthese activities.

8.     As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing would support the
following three components:

       (a) Community Development Sub-Projects. Grants for small-scale demand-driven
       sub-projects prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries. Sub-
       Projects would include income generating sub-projects (e.g. agricultural
       diversification, small enterprises, artisan workshops, etc), as well as community
       development sub-projects for activities that would complement productive
       investments.

       (b) Capacity-Building and Institutional Development.            Strengthen local
       communities'     capacity to design, implement and monitor community
       development activities and to facilitate their participation in overall Project
       implementation. This component would support services, training and
       organizational development, and the implementation of a participatory monitoring
       and evaluation (M&E) system.

       (c) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Support the Project
       Coordination Unit (PCU) to coordinate the technical and administrative aspects,
       oversee implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and to carry
       out specialized studies. These studies would include at least the following: (i)



                                            2

        social and economic inclusion; (ii) line studies; (iii)
                                                base                     additional sector specific
        studies.

9.      The Project was approved in March 2002 and is currently schedule to close on
September 30, 2008. Supervision ratings have consistently been satisfactory, both for
Development Objective and Implementation Progress. The Project has already surpassed
its quantitative beneficiary targets: as o f December 31, 2006, PRODECO had approved
500 subprojects benefiting more than 5,100 families and almost 30,000 persons. These
figures exceed the original target o f 3,700 families and 18,500 beneficiaries. The target
for inclusion o f vulnerable and socially marginalized groups (including indigenous
groups, women, and youth) as project beneficiaries has also been exceeded by 75 percent
(and amounts to nearly 30 percent o ftotal sub-Projects).

10.     The project has also made substantive progress in developing transparent and
participatory mechanisms for community-driven development (CDD)-type investments in
Paraguay. The project's Mid Term Evaluation as well as recent monitoring data' show
that the project has been able to decentralize decision making at different territorial levels
and has gained legitimacy among local, departmental, and national level authorities as
well as with civil society organizations. Recent reviews o f the quality o f supervision have
found that the project's focus on Development Effectiveness has been highly satisfactory
and that the project i s contributing to a greatly needed culture o f results, transparency and
social participation.     Hence, the project has successfully developed institutional
mechanisms to identify potential beneficiaries, make decisions at the local level regarding
investment priorities, and deliver benefits (funding and technical assistance) in a
transparent and participatory manner in an extremely weak institutional context.
PRODECO i s recognized as a key contributor to the country's poverty reduction strategy
inthe three initialdepartments.

11.     While the project's rate o f disbursement was lower than expected inthe first years
o f operation (due mainly to the delay in effectiveness and to the time required to build up
the necessary institutional infrastructure and participatory processes), the latest data show
that all funds are committed and will be disbursed by September 30, 2008. Furthermore,
the project's success has resulted inan unexpected demand that surpasses existing project
resources: 200 additional sub-project proposals have been submitted above and beyond
the 500 that were initially planned for and budgeted. At the same time there are no other
government programs providing funding for the development o f the capacity o f local
communities to implement poverty alleviation and community development activities by
supporting small productive, income generating and community development sub-
Projects.

12.     Reasons for Additional Financing: Poverty and social exclusion in Paraguay
continue to prevail. While poverty has significantly decreased since 2002, poverty rates
are still higher than in 1997 (see Table 1 below). Inequality as measured by the Gini
index (for per capita income) is also very high and has fluctuated between 0.584 in 1995


  Informe de Implementaci6n del Monitor Social en el Marco del Prodeco, Marzo 2007.



                                                  3

and 0.552 in2004, being higher inrural areas (0.570 in 1995 and 0.587in 2004). Existin
data indicates significant disparities between urban and rural areas. Various studies                                         5
suggest that regional inequality is a distinctive phenomenon in Paraguay. Existing
poverty data for the selected departments shows that extreme poverty ranges from almost
 14% in Central to 15% in Cordillera, 19.1% in Paraguari; 19.9% in Guaira; 23.1% in
Misiones; 25.1% in Itapua, and 28% in Caaguazu. Regarding the absolute numbers of
poor, from the selected departments, Central has the largest number of poor (1SS,OOO),
followed by Caaguazu (122,000) and Itapua (113,000). All together the 8 departments
selectedcomprise close to 60% of the extreme poor inthe country.


 Area and Poverty             97/98          99            00/01          2002           2003             2004          2005
      Level (YO)
                                                           Urban
Extreme Poor                   7.3           6.1             7.1           14.6           13.4             12.8          11.6
Poor                           15.9         20.6            20.5           28.8          26.4             25.7           27.8
Tntal                          23 1         26 7            27 6          43 2           39.8             38.4           39.4




Source: STPDGEEC: Principales Resultadosde laEncuestapermanentede Hogares2005. Empleoy Pobreza.Encuestade Hogares

 13.       Institutional weakness of the state and civil society are key constraints to
economic growth and poverty reduction. Paraguay is making progress in consolidating
democracy and reforming the State. However, there are still significant challenges in
ensuring adequate prioritization of public investment and its efficient implementation.
Strengthening the demand side in the public investment decision making process by
making citizens participate in decision making and control how public funds are used is
essential to deliver better governance and, as a result, improve the well being of the
population and the capacity of excluded groups to take the lead in their own
development.

 14.       The ongoing Project has figured centrally in the Government's National Poverty
Reduction Strategy with the Project's objectives being closely aligned with all three of
the specific policy dimensions of the Strategy - social protection, social promotion, and
economic inclusion. In a context of increasing national poverty, the Government of
Paraguay has requested Additional Financing in order to build on the successes o f the
ongoing Project and scale-up the development impact by meeting excess demand from
poor communities in the existing three Departments where the project i s currently

'Gonzllez, E. (2001). Paraguay:Determinantesregionales en la inequidadde ingresos. Son desiguales las regiones del pals?Centro
de Anllisis y Difusi6nde la EconomiaParaguaya. CADEP. Fazio and Tornarolli (2005) Working PaperN.3/05 Monitoring the Socio-
Economic Conditionsin ParaguayCEDLAS UniversidadNacional de La Plata




                                                              4

operating, and by expanding the project to include an additional five Departments
(Caaguazu, Central, Cordillera, Guaira and Paraguari). Additional Financing i s deemed
the most effective way to build on the current momentum and respond to the immediate
demand and opportunity to enhance the development impact of the project, for three
reasons:

         (a) Scaling-up a well-performing Project. The needfor a scaling-up to deepen the
         development impact o f the original project is real, and the probability of success
         i s high due to the implementation experience of the original project.

         (b) Continuity of theprogram. An additional loanwould be very timely to avoid a
         funding gap that could adversely affect the implementation momentum built up in
         particular over the last two years. The institutional infrastructure that the project
         has built, and the attendant arrangements that are in place - primarily at the
         departmental level but including a small national level nodal implementing unit -
         are well placed to provide the platform to launch the new operation without any
         start-updelay. While the national political processhas ledto delays in approvals
         for Bank projects in the past, recent experience shows that a working consensus
         has been reached betweenthe executive and legislative branches to allow for the
         approval o f new operations. The original project has enjoyed strong support from
         all sectors inthe country.

         (c) Bridgefinancing. The additional loan would serve as bridge financing for this
         successful outreach to small farmers while a follow-on project i s considered as
         part of the next CAS cycle (planned for FY09). A follow-on project was
         contemplated inthe current CAS but only inthe high case.

15.      The Borrower, through SAS, has made significant progress in the
institutionalization of this CDD program. First, in addition to counterpart funds (US$
1.15 million), the Government has contributed about US$ 300,000 for the ongoing
project through various programs and institutions. Furthermore, 20 local governments
out of 56 municipalities have contributed with their own resources to project
implementation3. Second, the decentralized model developed by the project (Local
Development Committee) has been used by SAS to implement other social programs,
particularly dealing with indigenous and poor communities in the Chaco region (Puerto
Casado). Similarly, the government's conditional cash transfer program has used the
systemdeveloped by the project for checking beneficiaries' eligibility criteria. Finally, at
the institutional level, SAS has made some progress in unifying data bases and
monitoring systems based on the project system, as well as in the implementation
throughout SAS of an electronic archiving system for documents.

16.     Instrategic terms, the Additional Financing would continue the Bank's support to
poverty reduction through programs by increasing poor people's capacities and

 fleembucu: Isla Umbu, Pilar, Humaita, Villa Oliva, Guam cua; Ztuuziu: Fram, General Delgado, Coronel
Bogado, San Cosme y Damian, Yatytay, Tomas RomeroPereira, CapitanMeza, Capitfin Miranda,
Obligado, La Paz, Nueva Alborada, CambyretaBella Vista, Jesus; Misiones: Ayolas)



                                                   5

participation in productive activities.      It also continues to strengthen the weak
institutional capacity in Paraguay, particularly at local levels, to develop and implement
pro-poor community development activities, characterized by a high degree of
accountability.

111.Proposed Changes

17.      The main change proposed is an expansion of the scope of the Project, as part of
the process of scaling up the poverty impacts, to includean additional five Departments-
Caaguazu, Central, Cordillera, Guaira and Paraguari. The additional Departments would
expand the project's reach to about 60% of the country's overall population, and expand
the target population of the project close to 60% of the country's population living in
extreme poverty (up from the approximately 15% of the country's population inextreme
poverty targeted under the Ongoing Project). Furthermore, the geographical proximity to
the original Departments enable greater cross-Departmental collaboration and sharing of
lessons-learned, and i s also expected to reduce the additional administrative costs
requiredby the potential scaling-up.

18.      Based on the geographical poverty targeting set out inthe Government's National
Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Project would also concentrate on the poorest districts
within the additional Departmentsto ensure greater overall development impact. Inthe
Department of Caaguazu, in those districts where the Project may overlap with
PRODERS, the Project would only finance activities not funded by PRODERS and will
not target the same beneficiaries.

19.     Both the Development Objective and Components o f the ongoing Project would
remain the same under the Additional Financing. However, drawing on the piloting
lessons learned from the ongoing Project, minor and complementary modifications to
some activities under Components 1 and 2 are proposed to enhance the pro-poor
developmental impact of the project - mainly by firstly, enhancing the opportunities for
municipal level participation and development, and secondly, reorganizing and
harmonizing support and technical assistance provided for local and community capacity-
building and development.

20.     Activities under Component 1: Communitv Development Sub-Projects: The
principal activities under Component 1 remain the same: (a) financing of income
generation subprojects; (b) financing of community development subprojects; and (c)
financing of technical assistance. This component would also include support to pre-
investment (social and productive) activities to create new organizations and strengthen
the implementing capacity of existing groups. Two partial changes, however, are
proposed to enhance the overall impact of the Project. Firstly, as regards principal
activities (a) and (b), drawing on lessons from the ongoing Project where the low ceiling
for Municipal Projects hampered demand from municipal governments, under the
Additional Financing each municipality would be able to request proposals that would
not exceed US$ 10,000 for the entire life o f the project (up from US$5,000 under the
ongoing Project). Secondly, as regards principal activity (c), the Additional Financing



                                             6

proposes to channel local and community capacity-building and development support
provided to subprojects and productive committees through Component 2. As such,
technical assistance financed under Component 1 i s expected to concentrate on
industry/production-specifictechnical assistance, limited to a maximum of 10% of the
investmentcosts (as comparedwith 20% underthe ongoing Project).

21.    Activities under Component 2: Capacitv Buildinn and Institutional Development:
The principal activities under Component 2 also remain essentially the same: (a) support
to the development of new productive groups; (b) training to beneficiaries, community
organizations and local governments; and (c) technical assistance to local governments
and support to Local Development Committees (LCs) and Departmental Development
Committees (DCs). Related to the above, a participatory monitoring and evaluation
systemwould be supportedunder this component. This component would provide special
focus on youth training to facilitate their insertion in the labor market. It would also
support training to Technical Assistance providers (ATs) and staff from other agencies
involved inthe implementation of the project activities.

22.    To mainstream and harmonize support towards these three principal activities, the
Additional Financing proposes to cluster technical assistance and capacity-building
assistance in decentralized Local Development Professionals (LDPs) based at the
municipal level. Qualified young professionals selected through a nationally competitive
recruitment process, the LDPs are also expected to expand the impact of the project
through developing and strengthening local level partnerships and synergies betweenthe
project (and its beneficiaries), the private sector, existing social programs and institutions,
and civil society organizations.

23.    The LDPs would be placed in each of the 50 poorest districts in the new
Departmentswhere the bulk of the Additional Financing is expected to be concentrated,
and 10 LDPs would be spread across the original Departments to ensure consistent and
rigorous follow-up and technical assistance to the pre-existing subprojects from the
original project. The LDPs would not add any additional technical assistance costs as
compared with the ongoing project, but will merely use pooled resources for technical
assistance previously provided under Component 1 (50% of the financing of technical
assistance) and Component 2 (US$ 300 per project for pre-investment technical
assistance).

24.    Additionally, to strengthenthe financial management systems of the Government
in executing the Additional Financing, specific training and capacity-building in Public
Finance and other fiduciary responsibilities would be provided to staff of the Social
Action Secretariat (Secretaria de Accidn Social, SAS) and the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU).

25.    Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All principal
implementation arrangements would continue to be the same as under the Ongoing
Project, except that the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP) would no longer
be the Procurement Agent for the project, as such function would be integrated into the



                                               7

Executing Agency. The executing agency would continue to be the Social Action
Secretariat (SAS), under the President's Office. SAS has the mandate of coordinating the
Government's poverty reduction strategy, as well as implementing certain elements of
that strategy. Specific responsibility for Project coordination and implementation would
lie with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), under SAS's Project Coordination
Directorate (which has the responsibility o f implementing other multilateral and
international cooperation Projects). The PCU comprises a Technical sub-unit (UT) and
an Administrative sub-unit (UA) that would coordinate the technical and administrative
aspects of the Project and oversee the decentralized implementation of the project to local
institutions. The PCU would continue to be headed by a Project Coordinator and staffed
with a small core team of specialists who would oversee Project implementation and
provide technical assistance to the Local Committees, Departmental Committees and
service providers. To strengthen the expertise of the PCU, however, two additional
specialists on Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development and Indigenous
Development would be contracted.

26.      The Local Committees (LCs) consist of representatives of communities located
within the territorial jurisdiction of any given municipality, including from a local church
(l), universities and/or schools (l), society organizations (3), municipal
      local                                     civil
government (2), a representative from local public services (l),          and a community
development agent (from the PCU). The LCs would continue to be responsible for
assessing eligibility criteria (of sub-projects and beneficiaries), reviewing and approving
sub-project proposals up to US$ 16,500. Also, the LCs would be responsible for meeting
twice a year to review Project implementation progress and to provide a public account of
their work. Ineach ofthe 5 new departments, a Departmental Committee (DC) would be
establishedand would includerepresentativesof a number of communities located within
the territorial jurisdiction of any of the Borrower's departments (Departamentos),
including from a church (l), society organizations (2), local universities (l),
                                   civil
departmental government (3), a representative of departmental level public services (1)
and a member of the PCU. The DC would review and approve sub-projects between
US$ 16,500 and US$ 30,000. The DCs would also meeting twice a year to review
Project implementation progress and to provide a public account of their work.

27.      The main difference with the existing arrangements is that the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) would no longer be the procurement agent for the
project. All financial and administrative management would be the responsibility of
existing institutions in the public sector. SAS would directly manage and administer
Financial Management aspects of the project through its internal services and the PCU.
For this purpose, the SAS would strengthen the existing Financial and Administration
Sub-Unit (sub-UAF), to ensure the speedy execution of the operation. This sub-unit,
which will cover activities currently carried out by UNDP, will be staffed with a Budget
Officer; a Treasurer; an Accountant and a Reporting Officer. In addition, the
administrative team within the Project PCU will include: i)an Administrative and
Finance Coordinator; ii)a Procurement Specialist; iii)a Reporting Officer; and iv) an
Accountant. SAS has committed to complete the implementation of an action plan




                                              8

agreed with the Bank to strengthen the sub-UAF, before the implementation of the
Additional Financing starts.

28.     The Operational Manual for the Ongoing Project would continue to govern
subproject preparation under the Additional Financing, except to reflect the modifications
in activities described for the Additional Financing. Community beneficiaries'
committees would continue to identify, prepare, implement, operate and maintain their
productive investments, contracting directly where needed technical assistance, and
accessing further project-financed training and assistance from the PCU and through
project-assisted municipalities and community development organizations. The
community development organizations would continue to develop capacity in local
planning, priority-setting and evaluation of community development initiatives, as well as
indeveloping partnershipsandlinkages with local state social programs andagencies, the
private sector, and civil society. The Operational Manual has been updated to reflect the
changes in financial and administration arrangements described above, as well as the
safeguards arrangementsproposed for the Additional Financing set out furtherbelow.

29.     Complementarv Changes include project costs, financing plan and schedule, a
revised implementation schedule and Closing Date. The total additional project, including
taxes and duties, is estimated at US$12.65 million equivalent, with the following
breakdown: US$9.00 million financed by the Bank, US$2.38 million by the Government,
and an additional US$1.27 million by community beneficiaries. Ofthe total project costs,
US$8.07 million would finance small-scale productive, income-generating and
community-development sub-Projects, includingthe technical assistancecontracted when
needed by the project beneficiaries. Another US$1.47 million would finance support
services to the development of sub-project investment groups, training, capacity-building
and organizational development to beneficiaries, community organizations and local
governments, and the implementation of a participatory M&E system. The remaining
US$2.27 million would finance the PCU's operational costs, monitoring and evaluation,
studies and auditing costs, as well as recurrentcosts incurred by the PCU. The breakdown
of estimated costs by component and category is shown inAnnex A.

30.     A three years implementation period is proposed for the Additional Financing.
The planned implementation period would be appropriate given the experience gained
and capacity developed by the implementing agency with the Pilot Project. The ongoing
project was approved by the Board on March 4, 2002, signed on May 14, 2002, and
declared effective on May 9, 2003. The first disbursement was in July 2003, and
counterpart funding was made available only in December 2003, Therefore, effectively,
December 2007, was the fourth year of full implementation, which was the
implementation period envisaged in the PAD. The initial delays in Project approval and
implementation start-up resulted in a one year displacement of the implementation plan.
After that initial delay, implementation has proceeded satisfactorily. For the Additional
Financing, the project unit (PCU) will continue and capitalize the lessons learned at the
pilot stage. Furthermore, given the existing demandinthe three initial departments, there
i s a bank of 200 sub-projects waiting to be financed. Also, for the preparation of the
Additional Financing, SAS contracted a study of potential investments in the new



                                             9

departments which has identified possible investment lines (clusters). At the same time,
local governments and civil society organizations in the new departments that would be
includedinthe Additional Financing are already identifyingpotential sub-projects.

31.     As part of the request for the Additional Financing, an extension of the closing
date from September 30, 2008 to September 30, 2011 i s proposed. Accordingly, the new
LoanAgreement would reflect the new closing date.

IV. Consistencywith CAS
32.     The objectives of the Ongoing Project, and those continued under the proposed
Additional Financing, are closely aligned with both the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Paraguay (2004-2007), as well as the Government's own
development and poverty objectives. The project's bottom-up approachdirectly addresses
three o f the CAS objectives (i)improved governance and transparency in public
administration; (ii)sustained growth, particularly in the rural areas where poverty is
concentratedand deepest; and (iii) inclusion to help Paraguay meet the millennium
                                    social
development goals.

V. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities
33.     Although the Project is being scaled up, it remains as originally designed and
appraised. The economic, technical/institutional, and safeguards aspects o f the activities
to be undertakenwith the Additional Financing remain mostly the same as inthe ongoing
Project. The original project design -and implementation- followed the Bank's guidance
for inclusion of indigenous populations, and therefore i s fully consistent with this policy,
although it had not explicitly triggered it. With the extension of the project coverage and
scale, OP 4.10, OP 4.36 and OP 4.04 have now been formally triggered in line with best
practice. In addition, special provisions have been made in the Operational Manual to
avoid adverse impacts, including accumulative effects, on forest and natural habitats.
The fiduciary aspects of the project that require changes under the Additional Financing
are detailed below as well as inAnnexes B, C and D.

34.     Economic and Financial: The community development approach of the sub-
Project investment, deemed economically feasible and financially sustainable during
appraisal of the ongoing Project, remains unchanged. In preparation of the ongoing
Project, estimates of the internal economic rates o f return (ERR) were calculated for nine
pilot sub-project types which covered representative geographical areas, anticipated
productive interventions and technical assistancerequirements. The results for these nine
productive activities showed robust economic profitability, with ERRSranging from 10%
to 74%, with an average ERR of 30%, well above the discount rate (10%). Considering
the mix of sub-projects of the 500 currently under implementation or already completed,
221 sub-projects fall into the 9 productive activities categories tested during Project
preparation, which together would have an average ERR of 29.0%4.Under the Additional
Financing there would be no significant change inthe type of sub-projects supported and
these types of productive activities have already been tested on the ground, and there has


 Document inproject files.



                                             10

been learning during the ongoing Project period which has enhanced the design,
operational, and implementation feasibility.

35.     The Mid-Term Evaluation as well as recent social monitoring reviews indicated
that the sub-projects funded during the ongoing Project increased beneficiary incomes.
Existing data from a recent impact evaluation show substantial changes in outcome
variables for participants.    There has been a significant improvement in economic
variables o f participants, compared to non-participants, particularly regarding (i)     well-
being, (ii)employment, and (iii)asset ownership.            Other benefits include better
participation in schooling, more confidence in community and stronger measures o f
social capital.

36.     To ensure that investments financed under the scaled-up Project generate
adequate returns, all sub-project proposals are subject to financial and technical
feasibility analysis during the sub-project preparation process. Moreover, important
aspects of the ongoing Project's design, to be maintained and strengthened under the
Additional Financing, help ensure that sub-project investments represent the lowest-cost,
best alternative: firstly, the demand-driven nature of sub-project selection helps ensure
that resources flow where they are most needed and that selected sub-projects are the best
alternatives for the families and communities in question. Secondly, the emphasis on
community-contributions and participation in sub-project implementation also generate
significant cost-savings, and promote the financial sustainability o f the project over time.

37.     Institutional and Technical: The activities under the project are similar to the ones
already being financed under the ongoing Project. The institutional arrangements, staffing
and capacity are already in place. The PCU, under the direction of the Social Action
Secretariat, would continue to manage the project. The continued emphasis on directly
targeting beneficiaries with sub-Project funds and providing them technical assistance for
execution o f small productive activities i s based on the successful experience of the
ongoing Project. Overall, the quality o f sub-projects under the ongoing Project has been
found to be satisfactory. To ensure greater developmental impact, the quality and type o f
technical assistance would be strengthened during the Additional Financing. Without
altering the basic design and approach o f the original project, this issue has been
addressed by incorporating appropriate activities in the scaled-up project (paragraphs 21
and 22).     Increased mainstreaming and harmonization o f pre-investment technical
assistance and capacity building and follow-up throughout the project-cycle, would be an
important contribution to the institutional and technical framework, and would improve
communication among the various actors involved in the sub-project preparation and
implementationprocess.

38.     Financial Management: Given changes in financial administration arrangements
(incorporation by SAS o f activities previously covered by UNDP), a Financial
Management (FM) Assessment of the proposed institutional arrangements was
undertaken by the Bank for this Additional Financing (see Annex B - Financial
Management Assessment).         The Assessment concluded that the proposed FM
arrangements are adequate for the Bank and that the Borrower has sufficient capacity and



                                            11

resources to implementthe proposed Project, provided the action plan detailed in Annex
B is duly implemented. Due to the inherent risk o f the project and country context, the
project residual FM risk remains High. In summary, the required additional FM
Arrangements are: (i)update the operation manual to incorporate changes in FM
arrangements (completed); (ii)upgrade the information system (completed); (iii)in
addition to annual project audit, carry out semi- annual audits ("concurrent audits") o f
sub-projects financed by this operation             ',iv)   strengthen the Financial Administration
Sub-Unit (sub-UAF) o f the Social Action Secretariat; and v) strengthen capacity o f
SAS/PCU staff inFinancial Management aspects.

39.      Comprehensive Fiduciary Framework: a comprehensive fiduciary framework has
been planned for this project in order to comply with project development objective and
mitigate the highFMrisk.




40.      The audit arrangements for this project are detailed below:

                                 Audit Report                                               Due Date
1)ProjectFinancialStatements                                                      June 30 of each year
2) Special Opinion                                                                June 30 of eachyear




                                                                                  No later than 45 days after the
                                                                                  end of each semester of each
                                                                                  year      during       project
                                                                                  implementation




41.      Procurement: With respect to procurement, an in-depth assessment o f the
Borrower's capacity was carried out by the team and a detailed action plan was prepared
to address all risks identified, as discussed in the Procurement Annex. The PCU has
gained considerable experience in the management o f community development
subprojects and has put in place very useful and effective tools for project
implementation (i.e., project management system and web page). Nevertheless, the
  ' Semi-annual audits designedto oversight sub-projects and specifically to give an opinion on reporting
  and financial statements o f said sub-projects. For additional information, see paragraph 21 o f Annex B
  "Financial Management assessment", and Annex C "Procurement".



                                                      12

overall project risk for procurement is high, which is the result of: (a) the risky country
procurement environment, mainly due to the weaknesses of control institutions and lack
of competitiveness of the market; (b) the fact that most of the procurement would be done
through CDD procurement procedures or through the hiring of high number of individual
consultants and (c) the still modest degree of experience of PCU staff inprocurement that
does not involve communities. The corrective measureswhich have been agreed are: (a)
relying to the extent possible on traditional procurement methods, which includes the
employment of the Country Procurement Portal (SICP - Sistema de Informacidn de
Contrataciones Pdblicas), (b) employing the SEPA (Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes de
Adquisiciones) for all project activities, (c) inclusion in the Loan Agreement of Special
Procurement Provisions and Covenants, (d) implementation of an oversight mechanism
over CDD subprojects through a semi-annual audit that would review all aspects of the
subprojects' cycle, (e) hiring of a HumanResources firm to select individual consultants
and (f) training project procurement staff. Additional details are available in the
ProcurementAnnex (C).

42.    Governance and Anti-Corruption: Opinion Surveys indicate that Paraguay is
frequently perceived to be one of the most corrupt countries in Latin America and the
world. In the Transparency International 2005 Corruption Perceptions Index Paraguay
was ranked 147th among 159 countries surveyed, though this showed a slight
improvement from the score of the previous year. The World Bank Institute's six
indicators of governance, which include control of corruption, have placed Paraguay
consistently inthe lowest percentiles of the countries of the world. In2004, according to
the control of corruption indicator, Paraguay placed last among the Latin American
countries sampled.

43.    Several governance and institutional weaknesses are at the root of the low
perceived legitimacy of public institutions in Paraguay today, and particularly the
absence of transparency, voice and accountability, as well as weak basic management
systems. This has been a focus, as well as a challenge for the ongoing Project, with its
emphasis on fostering decentralized, bottom-up and transparent decision-making.
Additional concerns are raised by shifting away from UNDP as the procurement agent to
use the country's own financial and administrative management systems. Nevertheless, as
concluded by the recent Country Risk Assessment there has been significant progress on
procurement and financial management in recent years. Hence, due attention i s required
throughout the Additional Financing to the Financial Management Action Plan set out in
Annex By coupled with continued social monitoring of Project and sub-project
implementation.

44.    Safeguards: As the Additional Financing would fund activities already approved
underthe originalproject design, the initial Environmental Category ratingof B would be
maintained. The initial Environmental Assessment found that, on balance the project was
expected to have either positive or neutral impacts on the environment. The Additional
Financing would support the same type of investments and would maintain the
environmental safeguard procedures already inplace for subproject screening, evaluation,
approval and monitoring. Inpreparation of the Additional Financing, a reviewo f existing



                                              13

procedures has also been conducted by an Environmental Specialist who confirmed the
Environmental Category B rating.

45.     Based on supervision during the ongoing Project, as well as the Environmental
Appraisal for the Additional Financing, the Pest Management Operational Policy 4.09
has beentriggered. Pesticide use is prevalent inthe context of small-farmer production in
Paraguay. While agricultural projects are a minority of sub-projects funded under the
ongoing Project, given the increased scale and geographic coverage, to diminish risks
associated with this type of production, a Pest Management Plan has been prepared and
incorporated into the Operational Manual/Environmental Management Framework under
the Additional Financing.

46.     The Forests and Natural Habitats Safeguard Policies (OP 4.36 and OP 4.04) are
also being triggered, even though no commercial harvesting of native forests or large-
scale plantation forestry have been financed inthe first phase of the Project nor are being
contemplated under the Additional Financing. Similarly, none of the activities
contemplated imply significantly degrading or converting natural habitat. Nevertheless,
given the expansion in coverge and scale, OP 4.36 and OP 4.04.are being triggered to
safeguardagainst any accumulative effects.

47.     As regards Indigenous Peoples, while the original project did not trigger the OP,
the project included specific activities with indigenous peoples that were fully consistent
with the OP. Followingthe Bank's best practices, and building on the experience of the
ongoing project, the proposed Additional Financing, has triggered OP 4.10.
Consultations with indigenous representativeshave taken place and in due course would
provide the basis for the preparation of the sub-projects. The design of the original
project was based on a comprehensive social assessment carried out during preparation,
with a particular emphasis on indigenous peoples as a beneficiary target group of the
project. Supervision reports highlight the highly satisfactory treatment of indigenous
issues during implementation. During this phase, extensive consultations with different
stakeholders, and in particular with potential beneficiary communities and indigenous
representatives were held to assess their particular priorities and needs. This process,
enhanced with several instances of participation and training, ensured that free prior
informed consultations with IP communities were carried out, and indicated broad IP
community support for the original project. To ensure consistency with these practices,
the Additional Financing has now explicitly triggered OP 4.10. Hence, an indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework has been agreed with the borrower and consulted with
indigenous peoples' representatives(see Annex D).

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

48.    Since the scaled-up project proposes no changes to the original project activities,
the expected outcomes and the attendant indicators for the original project continue to
remain relevant. The two broad outcomes of the project remain: firstly, contributing to
poverty reduction among poor urbanand rural householdsinthe selected departments, by
supporting actions that promote production, poverty reduction, generation of social



                                             14

capital and social inclusion; and, secondly, stimulating and strengthening local capacity
to take on productive and community development projects. Drawing on lessons learned
from the ongoing Project, however, two indicators have been redefined and two
additional indicators have been incorporated into the main sets o f indicators for the
project which are now:

          Number o f new groups established, trained and submitting sub-project
           proposals.
          Number o f income generation and community development sub-projects
           financed.
           Number o f sub-projects targeted to each pre-defined vulnerable group
           (indigenous, women, youth).
          Number o f families receiving sub-Projects.
           Sustainability of community organizations and groups after sub-project
           implementation measured as the stability o f the group members.
          Number ofjobs generated by sub-projects by type o f beneficiary (gender, youth,
           indigenous).
           Satisfactory participation o f community groups and local institutions in Project
           implementation and monitoring, amongst others through a participatory M&E
           system.
           Increased coordination amongst the Social Action Secretariat and other relevant
           government    agencies    and NGOs,       specifically in relation to    Project
           implementation and monitoring.
          Number of local organizations routinely participating in local decision making
           structures.
           Increased capacity o f local institutions and community groups to design local
           development activities, indicated by their knowledge o f participatory planning,
          budgeting and basic project management techniques.
           Strengthened financial management capacity o f the Social Action Secretariat
          and PCU, including the implementationo f a concurrent auditing system.
          Increased income o fparticipating families.


VII. Benefitsand Risks

49.     Benejts: There are strong indications o f positive changes inthe quality o f life for
those households which have benefited from the Ongoing Project. A recent Social
Monitoring Review, commissioned by the Government, o f 1,000 beneficiary households
participating at various stages in the sub-project cycle suggests that the Project has on
average been successful at improving the economic situation o f households and
communities, their capacity and skills-base, as well as the level o f social capital in the
participating communities - in terms o f improved community relations, and access to
state, private sector and civil society resources and services.




                                              15

50.     A preliminary impact evaluation6ofthe project based on a quantitative analysis of
levels and changes in variables resulting from project participation and a qualitative
assessment of changes and perceptions of beneficiaries suggest substantial changes in
outcome variables for participants and improvements in outcomes. The quantitative
analysis indicates significant improvement in well-being for project participants
(measured as consumption expenditures per capita).            Similarly, the data indicates
increased labor force participation among beneficiaries.          Asset ownership among
beneficiaries has increased compared with non-beneficiaries. Another, important result
has been lower drop-out rates among children o f participating families compared with
non-participating households.

5 1.    With the Additional Financing, the Project is expectedto benefit atotal of 10,000
families (compared with the 3,700 initially projected), comprising more than 55,000
direct beneficiaries (compared with the 18,500 initially projected). That is, 22% of the
extreme poor inthe 8 departments. Moreover, the Additional Financing would enablethe
project as a whole to raise the institutional capacity and effectiveness of local
governments and community organizations in the targeted Departments in planning,
priority-setting, and monitoringof community development projects.

52.     Risks: The scaling up proposed under the Additional Financing poses limited
anticipated additional risks, besides those already identified for the ongoing Project and
for which mitigation measures have been successfully adopted during the course of its
implementation. The main institutional and capacity constraints encountered in the early
stages o f the project have been successfully overcome, as evidenced by the rapid
disbursement rates and project execution during the last years of the ongoing Project and
the evidence of positive outcomes emerging from the preliminary impact evaluation.
Nevertheless, three significant risks would need to be addressed during the proposed
Additional Financing:

    a. Political uncertainty is substantial in an election year. This risk would be
        mitigated by continuous dialogue both with existing national and local
        stakeholders and with all major presidential candidates as part o f the Bank's
        engagement strategy with Paraguay. As part of this engagement strategy, the
        Bank is preparing a set of policy notes on key development topics (including
        social inclusion, and rural development).

    b. The new financial and procurement management arrangements introduce both
        governance and corruption as well as implementation risks.              A Financial
        Management Action Plan has been developed (see Annex B) and would
        strengthen the financial management capacity of SAS and the PCU and put in
        place a system to effectively audit the Project and sub-projects throughout
        implementation. The Bank will ensure that the SAS administrative unit receives
        sufficient training to assume its responsibilities, whether through the Project itself
        or via complementary support activities. The Government will provide evidence


 Document inProjectFiles



                                             16

       o f compliance with this Action Plan, as well as propose additional mitigation
       activities, prior to Loan negotiations.

   c. The weak capacity o f local governments and technical assistance providers inthe
       new deparetments would represent new challenges for implementation. The
       changes introduced in the technical assistance modality (LDP) as well as the
       lessons learned regarding pre-investment and support to technical assistance
       providers would contribute to address these challenges, which have for the most
       part been overcome in the original project. Nonetheless, special attention to
       monitoring and evaluation o f the capacity o f local governments and technical
       assistance providers would be required. The Operational Manual has included the
       procedures and mechanisms for this feedback to take place.

VIII. FinancialTerms and ConditionsFor The Additional Financing

53.    The Republic o f Paraguay has selected the following financial terms for the
Additional Financing:


   a. IBRDFixed-Spread Loan (FSL), 5 years o f grace and with a 30 year maturity.

   b. Front-end Fee (FEF) on Bank Loan: 0.25% of the US$9.0 million Additional
       Loan, equivalent to US$22,500 that the Borrower will pay up front;

   C.  Interest Rate Basis: Variable;

   d. Repayment Schedule: 15 March and 15 September

   e.   All conversion Options.




                                             17

                      Annex A EstimatedAdditional ProjectCosts




C. Administration, Monitoringand Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost
 Physical Contingencies




               Project Cost by Category            Local      Foreign    Total
                                                 US$ Million US$ Million  US$
                                                                         Million
Goods, Services and Training other than             3.01       0.23      3.24
subprojects                                         7.34       0.60      7.94
Goods,works and services financed by subprojects    0.59       0.05      0.64
Operating Costs                                     0.79       0.04      0.83
Unallocated
                  Total Project Costs               11.73      0.92      12.65
              Total Financing Required              11.73      0.92      12.65




                                            18

                        Annex B FinancialManagement Assessment



Executive Summary
1.      The financial management (FM) arrangements for the Additional Financing o f
PRODECO project meet with Bank requirements, provided pending points are duly
completed (see paragraph 4 and Action Plan). The proposed FM & audit arrangements,
mitigations measures, and action plan would be implemented to mitigate the FM risk.
Despite the mitigation measures, the residual risk level was rated highdue particularly to
(i)thehighlevelofinherentriskinParaguay; (ii) transfer offundsto sub-projects;
                                                             the
and (iii) transfer o f responsibility on previously outsowced activities from UNDP to
         the
SAS services, inparticular to its Financial and Administrative sub- unit (sub-UAF). Main
mitigating measures include i)the introduction o f semi-annual audit (concurrent audit)7
covering sub-projects' funding; ii)the updating o f the FM sections o f the Operational
Manual to incorporate changes in FM arrangements; iii)the strengthening o f the SAS
sub-UAF; and iv) enhanced Bank FMsupervision.

2.      Proiect Specificity: The Additional Financing seeks to test a decentralized,
participatory, bottom up development approach, financing small grants for demand-based
income generation and community development sub-Projects. Although the financing o f
500 sub-projects to local communities (representing 72% o f the total additional
financing) in the Paraguay fiduciary context presents a high risk operation, the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) has strong experience on this type o f activities through the
implementation o f the ongoing project (PRODECO); its control framework is adequate
and has been functioning effectively through the five years o f implementation, as
evidenced by the results o f the FM supervision mission and audit outcomes.

3.      A comprehensive Fiduciary Framework has been planned for this project inorder
to comply with project development objective and mitigate the high FM risk. The text
below summarizes the main Fiduciary & Governance measures.




  Semi- annualaudits, designedto oversight sub-projects financedby this operationand specifically to give
    an opinionon reporting andfinancial statements of said sub-projects (for details see paragraph21)



                                                  19

4.     Pending Points: Capacity strengthening of the SAS Sub-UAF. See Action Plan.

5.     FM arrangements and mitigating measures. The project FM arrangements and
mitigating measures are summarized in the below table. Due to the high level of risk,
additional measures were incorporated to ensure proper mitigation.



       for the project; b) format and contents o f the annual financial statements and IUFRs; c) terms o f
       reference for the external auditing; d) terms o f reference for the specific concurrent audit; e)
       specific section o f sub-projects.




                                                          0    Review o f the concurrent audit reports
                                                               Bank specific FM advice for project staff
       IUFRsreviewedbi-annually                                & Governance Workshops




CountryIssues
6.     The Paraguay Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), March
2004, and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), November 2003, raised the problems
of governance and institutional weaknesses in Paraguay. The CAS notes that Paraguay
faces challenges in relation to corruption and contraband. Perceptions of corruption have
increased during the past decade and Transparency International consistently ranks
Paraguayamong the ten most corrupt nations.

7.     The management and control systems of Government are also weak or non-
existent. Within the central administration, the personnel management system i s in an
embryonic stage and is only now pulling together a master roster of all civil servants. A
much larger task is to embark on the professionalization of the civil service, including
competitive entrance exams, career streaming and training.

8.     The main weaknesses and shortcomings identified by the CFAA in terms of
financial accountability include:

       0   Weak-control environment & control framework
       0   Numerous exceptions inthe application of the financial administration law
           and regulation
           Disproportionate share o f time and resourcesthat the Auditor General devotes
           to ad hoc review requests.
           Congressional introduction of budget increases without provision for
           corresponding financing




                                                   20

         0   Trade liabilities incurred by execution agencies, but unrecorded ifthey exceed
             the authorized cashprogram
             Numerous exceptions to generally accepted accounting standards including
             financial statements non-compliant with the Government's own regulations.

9.       According to the CFAA, the inherent and control risks are high and the advances
made in the modernization of Paraguay's public financial management system do not
compensatethe effects of the deficient control environment.

10.      The Bank's country portfolio review of October 2003 also identified the main
issues affecting portfolio implementation. These include: (i)high staff turnover in the
project implementation units; (ii) of timely and adequate availability of counterpart
                                      lack
funds; (iii)cumbersome procedures for the flow of funds to the projects; (iv) delays in
effectiveness and project start-up; and (v) limited disbursement capacity and limited
knowledge of Bank procedures.
RiskAssessmentand Mitigation
11.      The FM risk of the project is rated as High and the risk assessment i s detailed in
the table below.

Risk                          RiskRating       RiskMitigatingMeasuresembedded      Condition
                              After Mitigation inProject Design
                              Measures
InherentRisk                       High
Country Level                 High             IntegratedFiduciaryAssessment (IFA)
                                               and relatedactivities.
EntityLevel(PCU)              Modest
ExperiencedFMStaff with
Bank operations
Project Level                 High             Administrative OperationManual      Completed
                                               acceptableto the Bank.
                                               ii)Semi-annualaudits(Concurrent
                                               Audits).
ControlRisk                     Substantial




Overall ResidualRiskrating    High
(*)L=Low          M=Modest       S= Substantial H=High




                                               21

StrengthsandWeaknesses
12.      Strengths. The Secretariat of Social Action (SAS) has implemented successfully
the Pilot Community Development Project. Staff assignedto this program is experienced.
The PCUcontrol framework is adequate andhas beenfunctioning effectively through the
five years of implementation, as evidenced by the results of the FM supervision mission
and audit outcomes. Inaddition, the additional financing would be executedthrough SAS
internal units and the Project Coordination Unit without outsourcing activities to
international organizations.

13.     Weaknesses. Main weaknesses include the weak control environment of Paraguay
public sector; the large number and relatively wide geographical distribution of
beneficiaries; the required flow of funds to numerous sub-projects; and SAS capacity to
carry out tasks previously outsourced.
InstitutionalArrangements
14.     Current project main implementation arrangements would be maintained, except
for those outsourced to the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP) -procurement
and payments, which would be carried out by the PCU and the SAS. The executing
agency would continue to be the SAS, under the President's Office. The SAS would
directly manage and administer FM aspects of the project through its internal services
and the Project Coordination Unit(PCU).

15.     For this purpose, the SAS would strengthen the capacity of the existing Financial
and Administration Sub-Unit (sub-UAF), to ensure the speedy execution of the operation.
This sub-unit, which will cover activities currently carried out by UNDP, would be
staffed with a Budget Officer; a Treasurer; an Accountant and a Reporting Officer. In
addition, the administrative team within the Project PCU would include: i) an
Administrative and Finance Coordinator; ii)a Procurement Specialist; iii)a Reporting
Officer; and iv) an Accountant. This strengthening activity will be completed by the SAS
no later than one month after the Effective Date of the Additional Financing.
AccountingandReporting
16.     The PCU would be responsible for keeping accounting records for Project
activities at the Project level. Project accounting for the ongoing project is on cash basis.
Transactions would be recorded inthe project accounting system acceptable to the Bank
andallowing adequatereporting to the Bank, SOEs control andreporting to the SAS Sub-
UAF for national accounting purpose. Project financial statements would disclose funds
transferredto sub-projects andjustifications for pending balances.

17.     The PCU would issue annual financial statements and semiannual Unaudited
InterimFinancial Reports (UIFRs). The proposed format for the UIFRs would be part of
the Operational Manualand would include:


        0   Source and uses of funds, for each semester and cumulative (uses by
            category),
        0   Uses of funds by component and,



                                             22

          Physical progress report for each semester by Project component.

Sub-projectsFiduciary Framework

18.    The following FM specific measures for the sub-projects would be adopted and
implemented:

       Governance & Transparency seminars should be extended to the final
       beneficiaries o f the project
       The operational manual FM chapter includes detail description of the following
       processes: (i) selection o f beneficiaries, inparticular the preliminary requirements
       to be selected; (ii)implementation and control procedures o f the sub-projects; (iii)
       the sub-projects specific reporting requirements; (iv) the description (staff and
       functions) o f the PCU team dedicated to the management of the sub-projects; (v)
       the terms o f reference of the concurrent audit specifically covering the sub-
       projects.
       Semi-annual reporting by an external concurrent audit acceptable to the Bank that
       would monitor on a continuous process the transactions and records from sub
       projects will be part o f the measures to mitigate the fiduciary risk. This audit
       would be conducted inaddition to the Project annual audit. The contracting o f the
       concurrent auditor would be a condition for the approval o f the first sub- project.
       The terms o f reference o f the concurrent audit would require the auditor to
       provide, inter alia: (i)an opinion on the use o f funds insubprojects; (ii) opinion
                                                                                  an
       on the uses o f funds statements sent by the sub projects; (iii)    an opinion on the
      justification o f pending balances from subprojects and its antiquity; and (iv)
       conclusions and recommendations for modifying processes and improve
       accountability and transparency o f sub-projects financial framework. Opinions,
       conclusions and recommendations will be provided every six months.


External Audit Arrangements
19.    Current Project External Audit. Acceptable audit reports o f the ongoing project
were submitted to the Bank. The audits were carried out by the firm Contadores y
Consultores de Empresas (CYCE) and project audit reports were reviewed by the
Regional FM Team. 2004 to 2006 audit opinions were unqualified for both the financial
statements and Designated Account.




    2006         Consultoresde                  Unqualified                 Unqualified
                Empresas (CYCE)
                  Contadores y
    2005         Consultoresde                  Unqualified                 Unqualified
                Empresas (CYCE)
                  Contadores y
    2004         Consultoresde                  Unqualified                 Unqualified
                Empresas (CYCE)




                                              23

20.       External Audit for the Additional Financing. Project annual financial
statements will be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank following international
auditing standards and specific terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. Annual audit
will cover all funding and expenditures reported inthe project financial statements. Audit
reports will be due within six months following the end o f the reported year. The standard
period to be covered is the calendar year. The scope o f audit and requirements opinions
will be: opinion on the Special Account; Project Financial Statements; and SOE
Statements.

21.       Scope of the semi-annualaudit (concurrent audit) for the sub-projectsunder
the Additional Financing.Due to the high level of risk associated with the transfer of
funds to sub-projects, a financial concurrent audit of the sub projects' execution and their
related financial reporting to the PCU will be carried out on a semi-annual basis to ensure
proper use o f funds and adequate reporting. This concurrent audit will include a random
selection o f beneficiaries for physical output control. The Terms o f Reference and scope
o f the concurrent audit will have to be acceptable to the Bank.The concurrent audit shall
provide an opinion on, inter alia, the uses o f funds, internal control, reporting o f the
subprojects.


                                  Audit Report                                                   Due Date
I'r ProiectFinancialStatements                                                         June 30 of each year
2) Special Opinion                                                                     June 30 of each year
     SOE: an opinion on the eligibility of expenditures reportedand the correct use
     of Loanfunds
     DesignatedAccount
3) Semi- annual audits ("concurrent audits") of sub-projects providing, inter alia, an No later than 45 days after the
opinion on:                                                                            end of each semester of each
     Use of funds in subprojects                                                       year       during      project
     Use of funds statementsandreportingby subproject                                  implementation
     Thejustification of pendingbalances from subprojectsandtheirjustification
     Subprojects internalcontrolprocedures
     Subprojects follow up on recommendations



Disbursementsand Flow of funds
22.       Flow of funds. The project would operate a designated account inU S dollars held
by the Ministerio de Hacienda at the Central Bank of Paraguay (BCP) and inwhich funds
received from the Bank for payments o f project eligible expenditure would be deposited.
Payments would be made from an Operational Account in Guaranies managed by the
SAS and located at the Banco de Fomento, and would consist o f (i)payments to
suppliers, consultants services, and (ii)         payment transfers to sub-project bank accounts.

23.       Disbursements.DisbursementMethods that may be used under the Loan are i)
Reimbursement; ii) Advance and iii) Direct Payment. The minimum value for
applications for direct payments and reimbursements would be USD 180,000.




                                                        24

 24.         Supporting documentation for project expenditures under advances and
 reimbursement method would be: Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs). All consolidated
 SOEs documentation would be maintained by the SAS for post-review and audit
 purposes for up to one year after the final withdrawal from the Loan account.

 25.         Loan proceeds for the Project Additional Financing would be disbursed against
 the following expenditure categories:

         Expenditure Category                  Amount financed in US$             Bank's Financing Percentage
  1. Goods, (except as covered in
     Categories 3 below),
     Consulting Services and
     audits (except as covered by                      1,931,000                             90%
     Categories (2)and (3) below),
I2. Goods, works and services
    financed by Sub Projects                           6,107,000           I                 90%
    Grants
 3. Operating Costs'                                    290,000                              50%
I4. Unallocated                                         672,000
 Total Costs for the Additional
 Financing                                             9,000,000




 Action Plan
 26.         Financial Management actions to be completed are reflected in the action plan
 presented below.


                                            Action                               Responsible  Completion Date
                                                                                   Entity
  1. Operation Manual Updatingto include changes of procedures relatedto the       PCU            Completed   I
        internalization of activities previously outsourced to UNDP. The ManualI
        include:

             Terms of reference for the financial and concurrent audit
             Chart of Accounts for the project
       0     Format and contents of the annual financial statements and annual
             financial managementreports
             Flow of funds description
       0     Specific section of sub-projects
             The internal control system and administrative procedures to be
             implemented
       0     Job description for the key F M staff
 2. Upgrading o f the project accounting system (to allow for transfer             PCU            Completed
       o f activities from UNDP to country systems and Project
       Coordination Unit)
 3. Strengtheningof the SAS Sub- UAF. This measure is to enable the project        SAS          Dated Covenant
       to satisfactorily execute activities previously outsourced. This
       strengtheningactivity will comprise the following actions:

      0     Institutional assessment ("diagnosis") of the Sub-UAF to identify
            staffrequirements
            Development of a strengthening plan for the SAS




                                                             25

        Formalizationof the strengthening plan(legal resolution)
        Competitive andtransparent selection of staff
        Implementationof the "Transparent staff' policy
        Capacity building for SUAF staff.



Supervision Plan
27.     The initial supervision plan is presentedinthe table below and its scope would be
subject to adjustment by the assigned FMS according to the fiduciary performance and
updatedrisk.


                               missions._.
                                   -                                   -- Update assignedrisk
                                                                          ReviewDesignatedAccount
                                                                       Reconciliation.Uses of funds.
                                                                                 up on ExternalAudit issues

Deskwork      Semi- annual     Over the IUFR                           -- ReviewIUFR
                                                                       -- Follow
                                                                          Reviewstaffing.
                                                                                       information consistency.
                                                                               issues disclosed in IUFR, if any.
Audit Review  Annually         Over the Audit Reportsubmitted to the   -Raise
                                                                          ReviewAudit Report.
                               Bank
Concurrent    Twice a year     Over the Audit Reportsubmittedto the    - ReviewConcurrentAudit      Report.
Audit Review                   Bank




                                                      26

                                         Annex C Procurement


A. Introduction

1.       Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with: (i)
the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Grants and IDA Credits" and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", both
publishedin May 2004 and revised in October 2006; (ii) "Guidelines On Preventing
                                                                           the
and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", dated October 2006; and (iii) provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
                                                   the
The general description of various items under different expenditure categories are
describedbelow.

Procurementto be carriedout by the PCU:

2.       Procurementof Works:The PCUwould not procure civil works.

3.       Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include
information systems and office equipment. ICB processes are not foreseen, packages
amounting below US$250,000 in aggregate may be procured using NCB and Shopping
procedures. Paraguayan legislation describes two alternatives for NCB and one for
Shopping, which are acceptable to the Bank if: (i)they are slightly amended to permit
that foreign companies not registered in the Country be allowed to participate in NCB
and (ii)  terms to submit bids and quotations are extended to make them consistent with
Bank recommendations, as displayed in the table below. Local-law thresholds for NCB
and Shopping are lower than the maximum accepted by the Bank, as also illustrated in
the table that follows. Acceptance of these thresholds would bring benefits in terms of:
(a) facilitating project implementation through harmonization with local procedures and
(b) taking advantage of increased transparency and competition resulting from lower
NCB thresholds. SBD for NCB and Requests for Quotations agreed with or satisfactory
to the Bank be usedinall cases.

              Local Law Methods Applicable to the Project                 MaximumBankThresholds for

             Method          I Threshold (US)      I                     Methods below the ICB threshold
                                                    Amended Term           Method     I  Threshold (US)




 Licitacidn Pziblica Nacional: LocalNCB procedurescomply with paragraphs3.3 and 3.4 of the
     ProcurementGuidelines,exceptionmade ofthe requirementsfor foreign biddersto beregisteredin
     the Countrybeforesubmittingbids.

 Licitacidnpor Concurso de Ofertas: is anNCB process with reducedterm to submit bids.

loContratacidnDirecta: is a requestfor quotations that is advertisedthroughthe SICP. Three quotationsare required
     before award. Contratacidn Directa complieswith paragraph3.5 of the ProcurementGuidelines.



                                                        27

4.     Procurement of non-consulting services: Non-consulting services procured
under this project would include information system and office equipment maintenance.
ICB processes are not foreseen, packages amounting below US$250,000 in aggregate
may be procured using NCB and Shopping proceduresas discussed above.

5.     Selection of Consultants: Individual Consultants hired under the project would
include trainers, local development professionals, technical experts and project
management staff. These individuals would be selected through a Human Resources firm
due to the high number involved (around 80) and in order to add transparency and
professionalism to the process. The project would hire consultant firms to: (i)    support the
selection of individual consultants, (ii)provide financial audit and concurrent audit
services. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Consulting Firms
would be selected following QCBS or LCS while individuals through the comparison of
3 cvs.

6.     Training: Training would include expenditures (other than those for consultants'
services) incurred by the Borrower to finance logistics for workshops, meetings and
seminars, and reasonable transportation costs and per-diem o f trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, and rental of training facilities and equipment. The
procurement would be done using NCB and Shopping procedures as discussed above.
Direct Contracting (paragraph 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines) may be used: (a) for
the payment of registration fees, up to a ceiling amount to be established annually in the
Procurement Plan and (b) for individual transactions amounting below $200, up to a
ceiling amount to be included annually in the Procurement Plan and to the extent that
localproceduresknown as "Revolving Fund' lYy     be followed.

7.     Operating Costs: includes reasonablerecurrent expenditures, based on an annual
budget previously approved by the Bank, which would not have been incurred by the
Borrower absent the Project. NCB, Shopping and Direct Contracting procedures (under
the conditions statedabove) may be followed.

Procurement to be carried out by Beneficiaries:

8.     Subprojects: The Loan would finance community development subprojects (up
to US$30,000 each) on a demand-driven basis. Procurement under subprojects would
follow a CDD approach (paragraph 3.17 o f the Procurement Guidelines), as further
elaborated in the Operational Manual. Under this approach, works, goods and services
would be procured to the extent practicable on the basis of Shopping; however,
exceptions to the need of obtaining three quotations may be granted by the
Administrative Unit (UA) within the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) during the process
of subproject approval. The CDD default approach notwithstanding, the UA would


"FondoRotatorio.




                                             28

identify opportunities for benefiting from the employment o f local law procurement
procedures and its associated Procurement Portal (SICP - Sistema de Informacidn de
Contrataciones Pliblicas) in order to gain additional transparency and competitiveness
whenever information systems were available at the local level. A proposal on using the
SICP or not would be included in the subproject proposal and would be further reviewed
and approved by the UA. Municipal Subprojects would use the Procurement Portal in
accordance with local regulations and practices12. The first six subproject proposals o f
each type: (a) Urban, (b) Rural and (c) Municipal would be additionally approved by the
Bank prior to their implementation.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

9.      Organization and Staffing:Project implementation would be the responsibility
o f the Social Action Secretariat (SAS) through the existing PCU and its UA. The PCU
would be incharge o f coordinating project activities, while the UA would be incharge o f
project procurement, including the oversight o f fiduciary aspects o f community
subprojects. An assessment o f PCU's capacity to implement project procurement was
carried out and included a review o f the organizational structure for project
implementation, the procedures in use, the capabilities o f personnel assigned to
procurement and the nature o f the procurement to be carried out. The PCU has gained
considerable experience in the management o f community development subprojects and
has put in place very useful and effective tools for project implementation (i.e., project
management system and web page). UA staffing is adequate and its staff has gained
modest experience in dealing with procurement that does not involve communities. In
order to add transparency to the hiring o f individuals, the project would resort to a
HumanResources Firm acceptable to the Bank to support this activity and an audit firm
would be hiredto audit the implementation of community subprojects semi-annually.

10.     Country ProcurementAssessment: a CPAR led by the IADBwas conducted in
2006 based upon the indicators developed by the OECD/DAC-Issue # 4.13. It assesses
the capacity o f the public sector procurement system based on 12 baseline indicators with
their respective compliance/performance indicators, organized around four pillars: (i)
legal and regulatory framework; (ii)        institutional framework and management capacity;
(iii)procurement and market practices; and (iv) procurement integrity and transparency.
While the CPAR acknowledges the considerable improvement o f public sector
procurement in the country as a result of the issuance o f the new procurement law o f
2003, it concludes that pillars (i)    and (ii)  require improvement, while pillars (iii) (iv)
                                                                                        and
require substantial improvement. On the other side, the country risk is high due to
weaknesses in control environment and in market practices (i.e,, indications o f collusion
insome sectors). The above notwithstanding, the highscores obtained for pillar (i)       made



l2Municipalities without accessto internet use the Procurement Portalex-post.

l3 "MethodolowforAssessmentofNationalProcurementSystems(version4)" waspublishedinJuly
   The
2006 under the auspices of the joint World Bank / OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
Procurement RoundTable initiative.



                                                   29

it possible to use amended local law methods for low value procurement (below the ICB
threshold).

11.     ProcurementRisk: The overall project risk for procurement is high, which is the
result of: (a) the risky country procurement environment, mainly due to the weaknesses
of control institutions and lack of competitiveness of the market; (b) the fact that most of
the procurement would be done through CDD procedures or through the hiring of high
number of individual consultants and (c) the modest degree of experience ofprocurement
staff.

12.     Corrective Measures: The corrective measures which have been agreed are: a)
resorting to the extent possible on traditional procurement methods, which includes the
employment of the Country Procurement Portal (SICP - Sistema de Informacih de
Contrataciones Publicas), (b) employment the SEPA (Sistema de Ejecucidn de Planes de
Adquisiciones) for all project activities, (c) inclusion in the Loan Agreement of the
Special Procurement Provisions listed in Section F and of the Covenants listed in Section
G,(d) implementation of an oversight mechanism over CDD subprojects through a semi-
annual audit, (e) hiring of a Human Resources firm to select individual consultants and
(f) training project procurement staff..

C. ProcurementPlan

13.     The Borrower, at Negotiations, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementation that provides the basis for the procurement methods (the initial
Procurement Plan). The initial Procurement Plan has been agreed between the Borrower
and the Project Team on February 15, 2008 and will be available at the SEPA
www.iniciativasepa.org on or before September 15, 2008.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

14.     Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bankoffices, the
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommendedbiannual supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. One out of
every five (15) contracts and community subprojects would by post-reviewed by the
Bank.

E. Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

15.     Works, Goods andNonConsultingServices

(a) ICB and direct contracting is not foreseen.

(b) Contracts for Goods, Non-Consulting Services and Training estimated to cost above
$250,000 and all direct contracting (if any), the first three (3) processes carried out under
each procurement method and category, and the first three (3) proposals for community
subprojects of eachtype would be subject to prior approval by the Bank.



                                            30

16.     ConsultingServices

(a) List of consulting assignmentswith short-list of international firms.

    1             2               3            4            5             6           7
                             Estimated                  Review        Expected
  Ref.      Descriptionof       cost       Selection    by Bank       Proposals   Comments
  No.        Assignment         US$        Method       (Prior /      Submission
                                                          Post)         Date


(b) Consultancy services estimatedto cost above US$100,000 per contract, single source
selection of consultants (if any), recruitment of key staff (as determined by the Bank
when reviewing Procurement Plans), the process for the concurrent audit, the process for
the humanresourcesfirm andthe first three (3) processesof eachselection methodwould
be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

F. SpecialProcurementProvisions

17.     All procurement shall be done using standard bidding documents, standard
requests for proposals, model bid evaluation forms, model proposal evaluation forms and
contract forms previously agreed with the Bank.

18.     Foreign service providers, consultants and suppliers shall not be required: (a) to
register; (b) or establish residence in Paraguay; (c) or enter into association with other
national or international bidders as a condition for submitting bids or proposals.

19.     Minimumterms for submitting bids and quotations shall bethe following: 30 days
for NCB processes amounting $100,000 and above, 20 days for NCB processes
amounting $20,000 and above, and 10 days for Shopping procedures.

20.     The Borrower: (a) will feed the Bank publicly accessible Procurement Plans
Execution System (SEPA) within 30 days of Negotiations with the informationcontained
in the initial Procurement Plan, (b) will update the Procurement Plan at least biannually
or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and progress and will
feed the Bank Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) with the information
contained inthe updated ProcurementPlan immediately thereafter.

21.     Bidderswill not be requiredto prove the purchase of the biddingdocuments.




                                             31

G. Procurement-relatedCovenants

22.      Inorder to disseminate project implementation requirements andprocedures, and
define roles, responsibilities, mechanisms, schedules and accountability arrangements,
the Borrower will implement the project following the stipulations o f an Operational
Manual (OM) acceptable to the Bank. The O M will include, inter alia, the project's
institutional arrangements and operational, accounting, procurement and disbursement
procedures.

23.      The selection of individual consultants will be done with the assistance o f a
HumanResources Firm, to be hired by the Project to this endeavor within three months
o f Loan Effectiveness.

24.      The UA will be staffed at all times by an Administrative Manager and by a
Procurement Expert acceptable to the Bank.

25.      The Project will contract a semi-annual audit, both for administrative and physical
control, under TORS satisfactory to the Bank. The scope of the semi-annual audit will
cover the whole subprojects' cycle, including: (a) dissemination process, (b) subprojects'
formulation and approval processes, (c)               subprojects'      implementation, including
monitoring o f results, (d) procurement under subprojects, including both compliance with
agreed procedures and effectiveness o f the procurement process in terms o f value for
money and (f) reporting and financial statements o f said sub-projects The hiring o f the
semi-annual audit firm shall take place prior to the approval o f the first Subproject to be
financed with Loanproceeds.

26.      The Project will operate an integrated project management system acceptable to
the Bank, including internal administrative steps tracking, project progress monitoring
andconsultants performanceevaluation.

27.      The Project will operate a digital files system to store both the documentation
related to the procurement process and to contract management (guarantees, payment
certificates, invoices, receipts, etc.).

28.      The Project will operate a web page to disseminate its most significant project
inf~rmation'~.




l4 example,theOperationalManual,BiddingDocumentsandStandardRequestforProposal,technical
  For
     background,designs, specifications anddrawingsofthe works to be financed,terms ofreference of
     the works to beexecutedwith project funds; subprojectsto be financed; beneficiariesofsuch
     subprojects;opportunities for scholarships,agreements with third partiesandprogress andmonitoring
     reports.



                                                   32

                       Annex DIndigenousPeoples PlanningFramework



Introduction

1.       Indigenous Peoples (IP) in Paraguay represent only 1.7% of the total population
(about 87,100) people, according to the most recent Indigenous Peoples Census (2002).
Notwithstanding, IP, show a higher population growth rate (3.9%) than the average for
the national population (2.7%). Therefore, it is possible to expect that the proportion of
IP will continue to grow for some time, even though they will continue to be a small
proportion of the total population, and where will continue to be some assimilation into
the population.

2.        There are 19 different ethnic groupsI5 belonging to five linguistic familiesI6,
being the most numerous those belonging to the Guarari linguistic familyI7 (46,000 or
53%), followed by the Maskoy linguistic family groups'* (21,000 or 24%). The four
largest IP groups are the Ava-Guarani (13,400 or 15.5%), Mbya (14,300 or 16.7%), Pbi
Tavyterb (13,100 or 15.2%), and the Nivacle (12,000 or 13.9%).                            Most indigenous
peoples speak their own language and have a limitedcommand of Spanish.

                 Table 1                                                              artment




                              Misiones                    I              I           I




                             INaci6n                      I    86,540   I         100I
                               Source: I1Censo Indlgenade Poblaci6ny Viviendas DGEEC




IsAccording to the I1IndigenousCensus, there are 19 ethnic groups: Guarani Occidental, Ache, Ava-Guaranl, Mbya,
  Pai-Tavytera,Randeva, Maskoy, Enlhet norte, Enxet sur, Sanapanh,Toba, AngaitC, Guanh, Nivacle, Makh, Manjui,
  Ayoreo, Chamacoco(Yvytoso& Tomaraho), Toba-Qom.
l6Guarani, Maskoy, Matako, Guaicud, andZamuco
"Guarani-occidental,Guarani-Randeva,Ava-guarani,Ache,Mbya,PaiTavyterh
IsEnlhet norte, Enxet sur, Sanapanh,Toba, Toba-Maskoy, Angaite, Guan&



                                                        33

3.      The great majority of the IP (91.5%) are in rural areas, distributedalmost evenly
between the Chaco region (49.3%) and the Oriental region (50.7%).               The current
distribution represents a significant change from the situation in the early 1980s when
about 67% of the indigenous peoples were in the Chaco region. This change reflects
population movements in search of more resources in the Oriental region as well as a
better counting of indigenous peoples inareas previously not included inthe census inthe
Oriental region.

4.      Indigenous Peoples in Paraguay are the most excluded social group, experiencing
extreme poverty and serious social problems. IP have little access to health services.
Only 26% of communities have access to a health post or center. Child mortality totals
93.9 per thousand. Fertility rates among IP women are extremely high, reaching 6.3,
compared with 3.9 for the average fertility rate and 5.1 for rural women. While there are
differences between the fertility rates of various ethnic groups, most of them are above
the national average. The five largest groups present fertility ratesranging from 5.5 inthe
case of the Nivacle to 8.4 among the AchC women. Only the Tobas and the EnlhetNorte
have lower fertility rates thanthe national average.

5.      Illiteracy among IP (15 years and older) is 51%, compared with 7.1`YOfor the total
population. The average years of schooling for IP 10 years and older are 2.2 years, while
the national average is 7 years.

6.      Poverty among IP i s extremely high. While there are no nation-wide
representative household survey data regarding poverty among indigenous peoples,
existing data from various projects (PRODECO, PARN, JSDF, and other donors, as well
as local NGOs working with IP in Paraguay), suggest that the poverty rate among IP
would be above 95%. It is important to note that IP's survival strategies include a
combination of economic activities (subsistence farming, hunting, fishing, gathering,
occasional paid labor, and handicrafts). However, the precarious state of these different
activities results inpersistent poverty and extreme vulnerability to shocks.

7.      The extreme poverty of IP is exacerbated by the lack of land and land titles.
According to the IP census, there are 412 IP communities, of which 185 do not have legal
tenure of / access to land. Considering that most indigenous peoples base their livelihood
strategies on access to land, it is not surprising that most IP are poor. Furthermore, the
lands currently occupied by these communities are many times encroach by non-
indigenous occupants and the resource base has been severely eroded given aggressive
extractive practices and poor natural resources management practices, thus IP cannot
survive only based on their lands, as they no longer provide an appropriate natural
resourcebase to sustainthe communities' economic-productive survival.

8.      Lands occupied by IP could be under four different situations: (i)indigenous
lands demarcated; (ii)  indigenous lands demarcated and titled; (iii) private lands claimed
by indigenous groups and (iv) indigenous lands (demarcated or titled) encroached by
non-indigenous settlers. Regularization and titling of IP lands has made slow progress.
Similarly, land acquisitions (through IBR) have benefited only a few communities.



                                             34

Estimates by the I1 Indigenous Census and INDI suggest that about 23% of the
indigenous families currently do not have land and 22% has access to landwithout proper
titling.



                   Indigenous Communities without Land                45.0%
                       0  Fiscal Lands (INDI/IBR/Other)               20.1%
                       0 NGO/Foundation                                0.7%
                          Private Owner                                 14%
                          Church                                       3.1%
                          Other                                        6.1%


9.      The social organization of the IP communities is based on kinship and co-
residence. While Caciques have great deal of authority and decision making power,
indigenous groups do not necessarilytake those decisions as binding. This has important
consequences for the establishment of contractual relationships back with and among
members of a community and conflict resolution since, if there is no strong agreement,
the dissenting part will walk away from community commitments.

 10.    At the national level there are various indigenous organizations that claim either
regional and/or national representativeness. These organizations do not have independent
funding and have to rely on INDI, church organizations or other civil society groups, for
support.    This situation has generated clientelism.         In some cases, organizations
supporting indigenous groups have sought from the communities exclusive legal powers
to represent the community. This pattern of relationships has generated conflict among
the various organizations and made it more difficult for them to coordinate activities
across different IP organizations.

Legal Framework for Indigenous Peoples in Paraguay

11.     Chapter V of the ParaguayanNational Constitution (1992) consecrates indigenous
peoples' rights and guarantees. In 1993, Paraguay adhered to the International Labour
Organization's-Convention 169, recognizing the right o f indigenous peoples to their
traditional landsand to the development oftheir own cultures and forms o f organization.

12.     The articles under Chapter V (62 to 67) of the Constitution recognizes and
guarantees Indigenous peoples rights to preserve and develop their ethnic identity, have
their own social, cultural, religious and political organizations, own land in sufficient
quantity and quality for the conservation and development of their unique ways of life.
The constitution also guarantees the right of indigenous peoples to participate in the
political, social, economic and cultural live o f the country.
13.     Prior laws (904/81; 43/89), regulate land tenure to indigenous communities;
Article 14 specifies that the settlement must be on land traditionally occupied by
indigenous peoples; Article 20 specifies that the land title shall be communal; and Article



                                             35

  18 stipulates a minimum of 20 hectares per family inthe Eastern Region and a minimum
  of 100 hectares per family in the Western Region.               Law 904/81 establishes the
 mechanisms for titling lands in the name of indigenous communities and creates the
 Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous Peoples (INDI) as the institution in charge of
 ensuring compliance. Although years have passed since this law was enacted, INDI and
  INDERT still hold intheir name a good number of property titles that have not yet been
 transferred to the communities, even though the Law obliges them to do so once the
  communities have been legally recognized.

  Indigenous PeoDles in the Proiect Area

  14.     Out of the eight departments included inthe Additional Financing, only Caaguazu
  (AchC, Ava Guarani, Mbya, and Pai TavyterA), Central (Maka, AchC, Ava Guarani,
 Mbya, NivaclC, Chamacoco, Ybytoso), Guaira (Mbya), e Itapua (Mbya and Maka) have
  indigenous communities. While all these communities speak their own language, they
  also also speak ParaguayanGuarani.

             Table 3: IndigenousPeoples andCommunities inthe SelectedDepartments
                          -
I Department I                          (andpriority Districts)
                 Indigenous              ICommunities        I %    of     Dept. % of Extreme
                                                                                  I               I
                 Population                                   Population           Poor
 caaguazu            6,884 (5,330)             47 (33)               1.58              5.60
 Central               1,038 (99)                3 (2)               0.07              0.55
IGuaira               1,056 (1,056)              8 (8)               0.59              2.98
  Itapua             2,102 (1,429)             32 (25)               0.46              1.87

  15.    While most of these groups were nomadic hunters and gatherers they have been
  forced to settle in reservation-style communities where they combine multiple economic
 activities, including farming, hunting, gathering.          The groups from the Chaco who
 migrated to the EasternRegion, especially the Maka have adaptedto (peri)urban lifelg.

  Proiect Activities

  16.    As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing would support the
 following three components:


         (a) Community Development Sub-Projects. Grants for small-scale demand-driven
         sub-projects prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries. Sub-

  19For further detailed analysis see the Project Appraisal Document for the Paraguay "Sustainable
 AgricultureAnd RuralDevelopmentProject" (WorldBank 2007)




                                                  36

        Projects would include income generating sub-projects (e.g. agricultural
        diversification, small enterprises, artisan workshops, etc), as well as community
        development sub-projects for activities that would complement productive
        investments

        (b) Capacity-Building and Institutional Development.            Strengthen local
        communities'     capacity to design, implement and monitor             community
        development activities and to facilitate their participation in overall Project
        implementation. This component would support services, training and
        organizational development, andthe implementation of a participatory monitoring
        and evaluation (M&E) system.

        (c) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Support the Project
        Coordination Unit (PCU) to coordinate the technical and administrative aspects,
        oversee implementation, monitoring and evaluation o f the Project, and to carry
        out specialized studies.  These studies would include at least the following: (i)
        social and economic inclusion; (ii)base line studies; (iii)preparatory work for
        potential follow-up operation.

 17.    Currently, the Pilot Community Development Project has supported 28
subprojects with IP communities, for a total o f US$ 395,000, benefiting 28 communities,
approximately 351families (2,100 individuals).

 18.    The strategy followed by PRODECO to work with IP has been based on an
existing agreement with INDI and consultation with indigenous peoples, and specialists
working with IP.        PRODECO appointed a qualified professional to work with IP
communities.     This professional had prior experience working with IP and received
additional training to ensure that the work program was responsive to the cultural
characteristics of the IP communities. INDIappointed a focal point that coordinated with
PRODECO to ensure that project activities were consistent with the guidelines and
current work program of INDI in the selected communities.           This professional also
provided technical advice to PRODECO to ensure that the proposed project activities and
procedureswere mindfulof the social and cultural characteristics of the IP communities.

19.     To work in the IP communities, Technical Assistance Providers, mostly NGOs
(and individual professionals) already working with indigenous communities were
contacted and asked to collaborate with the IP communities in the identification and
preparation of subprojects.

20.     The subproject preparation process started with a participatory community
diagnostic, which was followed by the prioritization of alternatives and the identification
of an investment. Inmost cases, IP communities decided to have subprojects supporting
agricultural diversification, bee-keeping, small animals, and other productive activities
mostly oriented to strengthen their food security and to generate a small surplus for
income generating purposes.




                                            37

21.      During implementation, IP communities received training (in their own language
and/or Guarani) on topics related to the productive activities they were developing, as
well as on administrative and organizational skills that would increase their capacity to
manage their subprojects and to strengthen their participation at different levels. More
than 100 training events with indigenous communities took place.                  In addition,
participatory planning workshops with the Itapda Indigenous Peoples Association
(Asociacibn de Comunidades Indigenas de Itapda, ACIDI) were organized. Intotal, more
that 500 indigenous peoples have participated inthese events.

22.      Participatory monitoring of the activities under implementation allowed
indigenous communities to provide permanent feedback to the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), highlighting the issues that needed attention and alternatives to resolve them. A
key issues that emerged from the experience of the Pilot Project was that in most cases,
given the power structure within the IP communities in which the Cacique holds power
and do not necessarily consult with all the community, it becomes essential to have open
and clear channels of communication with all membersand participation of all interested
people inthe decision making.

Framework

23.      Indigenous Peoples would be eligible for all project supported activities. All
indigenous communities in the priority districts would be eligible. The principles and
strategy that inform this framework has been developed based on the experience gained
by the Pilot Community Development Project working with indigenous communities in
Itapda and in consultation with INDI and representatives from indigenous groups and
civil society organizations working with indigenous peoples.

24.      Informed Partic@ation.Communities would be dully informed through culturally
appropriate means (intheir own language) of the types of project activities that would be
supported. Giventhe level of illiteracy among IP and their cultural practices, most of the
dissemination and consultations would be carried out through oral means in their own
language inmeetings with the community.

25.     Access. All indigenous peoples from the communities in the priority districts
would be eligible.      While IP beneficiaries would be registered using the same
instruments,these will not be usedto determine their eligibility. The beneficiary records
and screening instrumentswould be used solely with the purpose of having comparative
data that will be part of the baseline of the project. The criteria for group eligibility would
not be used for IP communities. However, special attention would be given to ensure
that gender balance i s achieved and that youth have a fair participation in project
activities. Specific indicators to track indigenous women and youth participation will be
addedto monitor their performance.

26.     IP beneficiary groups / communities would be eligible for all project supported
activities     (including subprojects, training, capacity building, and organizational
strengthening). In the case of indigenous communities, beneficiaries would be able to



                                              38

organize following their traditional social structures. Therefore, beneficiary groups could
go beyond the limit established of 20 members for non-indigenous groups. Leadership
within the groups would also follow the traditional leadership structure of the IP
communities.

27.      Operational Procedures.      SAS and INDI have a signed inter-institutional
cooperation agreement. Under that agreement the responsibilities of SAS and INDI
regarding the implementation o f project activities (technical assistance, monitoring) have
been defined. SAS would incorporate a full time Indigenous Peoples Consultant to work
in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). This specialist would be responsible for the
implementation of project activities with IP communities. This consultant would work
closely and with the assistance of INDI professionals to develop the appropriate
dissemination, training, and working materials to be used with IP communities. The IP
Specialist in the PCU would train at least an adequate number of Local Development
Professionalswho would work with indigenous communities.

28.      Before starting work in any IP community, informed consultation would have to
take place. Based on that consultation and the principles outlined in this framework, the
IP communities with the technical assistance of the IP specialist and the Local
Development Professionals (that would be trained to work with indigenous peoples), will
preparea specific project (plan) for IP community development.

29.      The specific IP Community Development Plan would start with a community
diagnostic, identification of potential activities to be supported and prioritization of the
subproject. While the IP community subproject would follow the same format and would
be subject to the same technical review process, the preparation and consultation process
would be based on the existing social structures of the community.       After the proposal
has been approved by the community leadership, the subproject would have to be
approved by the CDDs/CDLs with participation of indigenous peoples' representatives.

30.      Inthe event of IP communities living inlands under litigation, the Project would
ensure coordination with PRODERS and the JSDF for indigenous land titling, to
facilitate the resolution of the current situation. In the meantime, these IP communities
would be able to prepare and submit subprojects that could be implementedunder the
current land tenure situation and that would not be negatively impacted in the event that
the IP community does not receive the formal title over the land.

Resources.

3 1.     The project would have a full time IP specialist (with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank and selectedthrough competitive process). Inaddition, one Local Development
Professional in each department with IP communities would be trained to work with
indigenous communities.

32.     INDI would provide technical assistance and guidance to the PCU in order to
ensure that the project activities and the work with indigenous communities i s



                                             39

appropriated. To this end, INDI would designate a focal point that will coordinate with
the Project staff to ensure the synergies between both agencies and to provide technical
advice to the Project Team.

33.     While there are specific funds set aside for supporting indigenous subprojects,
training and capacity building activities, IP communities would have equal access to
project funds. Based on the experience o f the ongoing project, given the existence o f
dedicated project staff to work with indigenous communities, IP communities have
comparatively received a larger share o f project benefits.

Monitorinx

34.     In addition to the specific monitoring indicators and procedures for the project
(baseline, periodic supervision o f subprojects, and independent social monitoring), inthe
case o f IP subprojects, communities would have quarterly meetings with the PCU to
report back implementation progress, quality o f the services received, results, and
potential problems.       Based on this monitoring, the IP specialist o f the PCU working
together with the Local Development Professionals and the IP communities would devise
specific measures to strengthen the positive impacts and to correct possible problems.

Participation and Consultation

35.    During the preparation o f the additional financing, consultations with INDI,
NGOs working with indigenous peoples in the project area (Itapua),                 and IP
representatives from the existing subprojects. These consultations2' contributed to the
design o f the project and the preparation o f this framework. The final framework was
consulted on January 10,2007, with representatives from indigenous organizations from
Itapua, Caaguazd, Guaira and Central, authorities from INDI as well as representatives
from civil society organizations working with indigenous communities.

36.    During implementation, consultation with IP communities would be continuous.
The first stage in the process o f preparing a subproject with IP communities would be a
community consultation, to explain the project objectives, activities, procedures, the
rights o f indigenous communities, and their mechanisms o f participation in the project.
After the initial consultation, through the monitoring mechanisms (described above)
indigenous communities participating in the project would provide a permanent follow-
upto project activities.

37.    In addition to this subproject based participation, representatives from the IP
communities participating in the project would have bi-annual meetings with the
Departmental Development Committees (composed by Departmental authorities, Local
Government Authorities, Representatives from Civil Society), and Project Management
(PCU) to discuss issues o f relevance for the indigenous communities.                 The
recommendations emerging from those meetings would be implemented by the PCU.


2o Document on Project files




                                             40





