                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                                 Report No: ICR00001302



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-71090)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                         FOR A

                    PILOT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                   November 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin American and Caribbean Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective 10/23/2009)

                  Currency Unit = Guarani (G.)
                    G.1.00 = US$ 0.0002047
                   US$ 1.00 = G.4885

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy

CDD      Community Driven Development

CSO      Civil Society Organizations

DC       Departmental Committee

FAO      UN Food and Agriculture Organization

FAO/CP   Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program

FM       Financial Management

FMA      Financial Management Assessment

GoP      Government of Paraguay

IEER     Internal Economic Rates of Return

LC       Local Committee

LDA      Local Development Agents

M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation System

MIS      Management Information System

MTR      Mid-Term Review

PPR      Procurement Post Review

MOF      Ministry of Finance

NGO      Non Governmental Organization

PCU      Project Coordination Unit

PAD      Project Appraisal Document

PC       Productive Committee
PRODECO   Paraguay Pilot Community Development Project

SAS       Social Action Secretariat (Secretaría de Acción Social)

TA        Technical Assistants

UA        Administrative Unit

UT        Technical Unit

UNDP      United Nations Development Program



                  Vice President: Pamela Cox
               Country Director: Pedro Alba
                 Sector Manager: Maninder Gill
            Project Team Leader: Estanislao Gacitua-Mario
               ICR Team Leader: Rachel Nadelman
                                                   Paraguay
                                       Pilot Community Development Project




                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 7
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................... 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 21
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 26
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 27
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 29
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 31
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 32
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 33
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 46
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 53
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 55
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 60
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 62
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 73
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 74
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Pilot Community
Country:                Paraguay                  Project Name:
                                                                            Development Project
                                                                            IBRD-71090,IBRD-
Project ID:             P069269                   L/C/TF Number(s):         75210,TF-26317,TF-
                                                                            58022
ICR Date:               11/30/2009                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            PARAGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 9.0M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 9.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretaria de Accion social, Presidencia de la Republica
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/25/2001      Effectiveness:             05/09/2003        05/09/2003
Appraisal:             12/10/2001      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/21/2002      Mid-term Review:           08/30/2005        10/31/2005
                                       Closing:                   12/31/2006        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      25                   25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       25                   25
General industry and trade sector                                      25                   25
Other social services                                                  25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                                29                   29
Participation and civic engagement                                     29                   29
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                              14                   14
Rural non-farm income generation                                       14                   14
Rural services and infrastructure                                      14                   14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                            Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:            Maninder S. Gill                      John Redwood
Project Team Leader:       Estanislao Gacitua-Mario              Estanislao Gacitua-Mario
ICR Team Leader:           Rachel Hannah Nadelman
ICR Primary Author:        Rachel Hannah Nadelman
                           Ida Christensen




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Pilot Community Development Project seeks to test a decentralized, participatory,
bottom up development approach as a way to improve the quality of life and social
inclusion of poor rural and marginal urban communities in three departments on the
southern border of Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones and Ñeembucú). The Project will
contribute to the development of the capacity of local communities to implement poverty
alleviation and community development activities by: (i) supporting small productive,
income generating and community development sub-Projects for poor communities; and
(ii) building capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify, design
and implement these activities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Decrease in Poverty rates among beneficiaries.
                                                                              Decrease in 10% of
                                                                              the poverty and
Value                                         10% reduction in
                  Poor: 79.1%                                                 extreme poverty
quantitative or                               poverty and
                  Extreme Poor: 52.7%                                         rates observed
Qualitative)                                  extreme poverty
                                                                              among the
                                                                              beneficiaries
Date achieved     03/04/2002                  10/31/2002                      12/31/2008
Comments          The 2007 Impact Assessment found a 10% decrease in poverty among the
(incl. %          random sample of beneficiaries surveyed. The study's qualitative interviews
achievement)      supported the quantitative evidence.
Indicator 2 :     Increase in the employment rate among direct project beneficiaries
                                              Final employment
                                              rate among direct
Value                                         beneficiaries:                  Final employment
                  Initial employment rate:
quantitative or                               60%. 1,300 full                 rate among direct
                  25.6%
Qualitative)                                  time jobs                       beneficiaries: 80%.
                                              (equivalent)
                                              created
Date achieved     03/04/2002                  10/31/2002                      12/31/2008
                  At project closing 87% of the income generating subprojects across the three
Comments
                  departments remained in operation, demonstrating the continuation of new jobs
(incl. %
                  created. The Impact Assessment showed creation of 1,300 new full time jobs
achievement)
                  (equivalent).
Indicator 3 :     Increase in total family income among beneficiaries


                                                iii
                                                                             Income among
                                                                             direct beneficiaries
Value             Average monthly family Average monthly
                                                                             families increased
quantitative or   income G$ 350,000 (US$ family income
                                                                             by 40%, from US$
Qualitative)      60)                        increased by 20%
                                                                             60 to US$84 per
                                                                             month
Date achieved     03/04/2002                  10/31/2002                     12/31/2008
                  Average monthly family income increased 40%, twice the target percentage. The
Comments
                  continued low employment rate for non-beneficiaries in these departments
(incl. %
                  would lead to the conclusion that PRODECO had a significant role in this
achievement)
                  increase.
                  Development capacity of local communities increased as indicated by their
Indicator 4 :
                  participation in local government.
                                             Qualitative: Local              Qualitative: Local
                  Local communities have communities                         communities
Value
                  no participation in        indicate that they              indicate that they
quantitative or
                  desicion making at the     have a voice in                 have a voice in
Qualitative)
                  local government level local decision                      local decision
                                             making                          making
Date achieved     03/04/2002                  10/31/2002                     12/31/2008
                  Findings from the ongoing M&E, social monitoring exercises, and end of project
Comments
                  stakeholder workshops (see Annex A) showed that beneficiaries viewed
(incl. %
                  PRODECO as contributing to their strengthened voices and participation in local
achievement)
                  decisionmaking

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Sub-projects targeted to vulnerable groups implemented
Value
(quantitative   No sub-projects            525                                 515
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/04/2002                   10/31/2002                          12/31/2008
                Quantitatively, PRODECO fell 15 sub-projects short of the target. Yet, demand
Comments
                driven, the target approximated the no. of SPs that could be financed within the
(incl. %
                budget. Since the 510 SPs utilized all available resources the target can be
achievement)
                considered achieved
Indicator 2 : Number of direct and Indirect Beneficiaries
                                           3,700 families
Value
                                           (direct)                            5,106 families and
(quantitative   0
                                           18,500 individuals                  29,646 individuals
or Qualitative)
                                           (indirect)
Date achieved 03/04/2002                   10/31/2002                          12/31/2008
Comments        The project reached over a 1/3 more families than targeted. This demonstrates
(incl. %        that while 15 fewer sub-projects than anticipated at appraisal were financed,
achievement) each involved more household members than projected. This shows a more


                                                iv
                efficient use of resources.
Indicator 3 : Local Communities trained
                                            Beneficiaries                  Beneficiaries
                                            trained: 3,700                 trained: 5,500
                                            CDDs trained: 3                CDDs trained: 3
Value                                       CDLs trained: 50               CDLs trained: 50
(quantitative   0                           Departments                    Departments
or Qualitative)                             trained: 3                     trained: 3
                                            Municipalities                 Municipalities
                                            trained: 55                    trained: 56

Date achieved 03/04/2002                   10/31/2002                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Participatory Evaluation System Implemented
                                          Beneficiary                         Beneficiary
                                          assessment                          assessments
                                          indicates                           indicates
Value                                     community                           community
(quantitative   No system                 concerns were                       concerns were
or Qualitative)                           voiced and                          voiced and
                                          addressed during                    addressed during
                                          project                             project
                                          implementation                      implementation
Date achieved 03/04/2002                   10/31/2002                         12/31/2008
                Participatory Evaluation system was implemented and results used in monitoring
Comments
                and decision making. System results and end-of-project stakeholder
(incl. %
                consultations showed beneficiaries felt they had a voice and concerns were
achievement)
                addressed

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP           Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     05/31/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/03/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/04/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     12/22/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.90
  5     06/18/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.90
  6     12/17/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.90
  7     04/29/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    1.67
  8     02/10/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.99
  9     08/30/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.41
 10     03/29/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    6.33
 11     06/26/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    6.68



                                                v
 12                                      12/17/2007        Satisfactory               Satisfactory    7.93
 13                                      05/04/2008        Satisfactory               Satisfactory    8.19
 14                                      10/14/2008        Satisfactory               Satisfactory    8.70
                                                                                      Moderately
 15                                      05/12/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                         9.00
                                                                                     Unsatisfactory
 16                                      10/23/2009        Satisfactory               Satisfactory    9.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
      http://projportal.worldbank .org
      /shared/SiteReso urces/ICR/D IS
      B_CHA RT/P069269.png




                                                                                vi
                                                              1
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Poverty Context. At appraisal (December 2001), poverty in Paraguay could be understood
as a product of: (i) extreme inequality (i.e. the highest ranked country in the world in terms of
land distribution inequality), (ii) institutional weaknesses (both state and civil society), and (iii) a
lack of economic growth. In 2000 Paraguay's population was estimated at 5.5 million, of which
about 46% lived in rural areas, a rate higher than other Latin American countries. In 1999, when
the Project's preparation began, there were 1.8 million poor of whom 830,000 were considered
extremely poor. Poverty rates were highest among large and young families, female-headed
households, and youth (15-29 years old) particularly in rural areas. The indigenous population,
87, 0992 individuals from 17 different ethnic groups according to the 2002 census, is the poorest
population in Paraguay and faces significant discrimination based on culture and language,
among other characteristics. In Paraguay extreme poverty is highly correlated with indigenous
identity and membership in households where "Guarani" is the primary language.

1.1.2 Regional Disparities. Poverty varies across regions in Paraguay and there are wide
variations in available local level resources. At appraisal the southern regions of, Itapúa,
Misiones, and Ñeembucú had among the country's highest levels of inequality, with significant
pockets of extreme poverty. In addition, these departments suffered declines in agricultural,
industry and commercial activity, which had particularly devastating effects on the urban poor
and small farmers. At this time, rural poverty was higher overall than urban poverty and declines
in agriculture exacerbated rural hardship, reinforcing rural-urban migration.

1.1.3 Institutional Capacity. In Paraguay, the lack of a national legal framework to delineate
the respective roles and responsibilities of different levels of government has significantly
burdened local level capacity. In 2002 a law on decentralization was being drafted and the
Constitution had introduced a new intermediate tier of government in the form of 17 departments,
directly elected councils, departmental governors and autonomous municipal government. Yet
even with these new normative arrangements, the decentralized power structure's authority,
responsibilities and financing were only vaguely defined. As a result, the Central government
retained majority control over resources, leaving local institutions weak in their capacity to design
and manage sub-national development. In addition, ongoing political instability contributed to
further diminishing institutional capacity for policy-making.

1.1.4 Government Strategy. In this context, the GoP recognized that their poverty alleviation
programs needed better alignment, coordination and results monitoring. The government was
preparing a poverty reduction strategy (PRS) focused on addressing rural poverty and
strengthening economic growth, even though Paraguay was not part of the Highly Indebted and



1
  In June 2009 The Bank and the Government of Paraguay decided to pursue a stand-alone, follow-on loan
to the Pilot Community Development Project (PRODECO) which had been approved for Additional
Financing in February 2008. Therefore PRODECO, whose closing date reverted from December 31, 2011
to the Project's original closing date of December 31, 2008, now required an Implementation Completion
Report. Given the change in arrangements OPCS granted the project an ICR due date of October 31, 2009.

2
 General Office of Statistics, Surveys and Census. National Indigenous Census on Population and
Housing, Paraguay, 2002.


                                                                                                       7
Poor Countries Initiative. The Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria de Acción Social, SAS) led
strategy preparation with the help of the Bank and UNDP.

1.1.5 The Country Assistance Strategy: The Bank's 1997 CAS emphasized poverty reduction,
private sector participation, improved governance, transparency and accountability in public
administration, decentralization, sustained growth, and social inclusion. The Bank assistance
would support efforts to improve the delivery of basic social services and reduce poverty through
programs focused mainly in rural and marginal urban areas and to modernize and improve an
antiquated and weak institutional structure that was longer adequate. The Paraguay Pilot
Community Development Project (PRODECO) addressed the strategic objectives identified in the
CAS by financing community development and income generating investments for poor and
vulnerable groups and supporting local institution capacities to implement CDD activities.

1.1.6 The Bank's involvement: The Project represented the Bank's first loan to Paraguay in
five years. Initially the rationale for Bank involvement was to address continuing weaknesses in
local government capacity to manage and address the local population's development needs in
the vicinity of the Yacyreta hydro-electric dam (department of Itapú). Following discussions with
the Government however, the Project adopted a broader approach to rural and urban poverty
alleviation in Itapúa and the neighboring departments of Misiones and Ñeembucú. It was decided
that such an initiative could contribute to develop community capacity while increasing incomes,
and therefore complement other Bank/donor-funded operations for rural infrastructure, electricity,
and water supply being developed at that time.

1.1.7 These three departments were selected because they: (a) had a significant number of
urban and rural poor; (b) experienced sharp inequities in resource allocation; (c) were starting to
increase their budgets through royalties received from the sale of electricity produced by
Yacyreta, and therefore needed to build local government capacities to manage equitable resource
allocation; (d) they had already participated in other donor-financed programs for institutional
building, which provided a base from which the Project could build.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1 As stated in the PAD, Annex 1, the Development Objective of the Pilot Community
Development Project was to test a decentralized, participatory, bottom up development approach
as a way to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of poor rural and marginal urban
communities in three departments on the southern border of Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones and
Ñeembucú). The Project aimed to contribute to the development of the capacity of local
communities to implement poverty alleviation and community development activities by: (i)
supporting small productive, income generating and community development sub-Projects for
poor communities; and (ii) building capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to
identify, design and implement these activities.

1.2.2 Key performance indicators for the Project Development Objective, cited explicitly in the
PAD (Section A1 and Annex 1) as the criteria for achieving success were of two types: (i) output
indicators (physical performance); and (ii) outcome indicators (development performance). They
included specifically: (i) number of new groups established, trained and submitting sub-Projects
proposals, (ii) number of income generation and community development sub-Projects financed,
(iii) number of sub-Projects targeted to vulnerable groups (indigenous, women, youth/children),
(iv) number of families receiving sub-Projects, (v) sustainability of community organizations and
groups after sub-Project implementation, (vi) number of jobs generated by sub-Projects, (vii)
satisfactory participation of community groups and local institutions in Project implementation

                                                                                                  8
and monitoring, (viii) number of local organizations routinely participating in local decision
making structures, (ix) Increased capacity of local institutions and community groups to design
local development activities, and (x) increased income of participating families. Please see the
Data Sheet and the Results Indicators in Annex 2 for full presentation of results.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Neither the PDO nor the Key Project Indicators were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

1.4.1 Main Beneficiaries: The project was expected to reach no fewer than 3,700 poor and
vulnerable families (comprising approximately 18,500 individuals). In addition, by creating new
productive groups and providing trainings to municipalities and community-based organizations,
the Project was expected to increase the overall social capital of participating communities.

1.4.2 Beneficiary Targeting: The key aspects of beneficiary targeting were: (i) the Project was
demand-driven and therefore included only those who actively applied; (ii) only households
living in extreme poverty could participate; (iii) beneficiaries were selected based on clear
eligibility criteria applied on an individual basis, and beneficiaries were required to participate in
Productive Committees (PCs). To increase the likelihood that the most marginalized
demographics would participate, a special effort was made to recruit and integrate youth, women
(particularly female-headed households) and indigenous peoples. To eliminate leakages and
ensure that the Project only benefitted the extreme poor, PCs were required to include only those
members who met 100% of pre-defined eligibility criteria. Based on the Paraguayan National
Institute for Statistics and the Census's household survey, the criteria included a combination of
socio-economic, household and productive asset, unsatisfied basic need (housing, water and
sanitation), and human capital characteristics, such schooling no farther than 3rd grade. The
requirement that all PC members meet these criteria was to discourage over-representing pre-
existing groups and better resourced municipalities, which studies show demand-driven
operations can inadvertently favor to the detriment of marginalized groups who are the least
likely to have well developed social and productive networks.

1.4.3 Targeting Revisions: The poverty selection criteria were redefined during the early stages
of implementation. Successful in limiting participation to the extreme poor, the strict
requirements also had disadvantageous results. Community feedback and on-the-ground
experience showed that limiting PC membership to those with minimal human and social capital
created committees that lacked essential skills for initiating and managing small businesses.
Therefore, the revisions included removing educational restrictions, requiring at least two
committee members to have basic literacy and numeracy skills, and instead of requiring each
member to meet all the poverty criteria, PCs could include one member who did not comply with
one of the guiding conditions.

1.5 Original Components
The Project encompassed three components (see PAD Section C1 and Annex 2).

1.5.1 Component 1: Community Development Sub-Projects (US$ 8.56 mil., IBRD
US$6.78 mil.) financed small scale demand-driven sub-Projects that were prepared and submitted
by groups of eligible beneficiaries. Sub-Projects were to include (a) income generation sub-
Projects including agricultural diversification (e.g. raising of pigs, chickens, flowers), small
enterprises, artisan workshops, eco-tourism, and services such as laundries, processing facilities,

                                                                                                    9
and community markets; and (b) community development sub-Projects for activities that would
complement productive investments such as child care facilities, community centres, and
child/youth development. Sub-Projects would be identified by the communities and prepared by
them with the input of Technical Advisors who would be contracted as needed by the beneficiary
groups. Sub-Project proposals would be submitted for approval to the Local Committees (LCs) or
the Departmental Committees (DC) which would verify beneficiary and sub- Project eligibility
criteria and review the technical merits of the proposals, with support from the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). Participating municipalities would also be eligible to present sub-
Project proposals, on a limited scale as a pilot. This component would also finance technical
assistance for sub-Project identification, preparation and implementation.

1.5.2 Component 2: Capacity Building and Institutional Development (US$ 0.67 mil.,
IBRD US$.60 mil.) was designed to facilitate Project implementation by strengthening local
communities' capacity to design and implement community development activities and to
facilitate their participation in overall Project implementation. The component was to finance
support services, including technical assistance (pre-investment for non-organized groups),
training and organizational development, and the implementation of a participatory monitoring
and evaluation system.

1.5.3 Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 1.95 mil.,
IBRD $US 1.62 mil.) supported the establishment of a centralized Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to coordinate technical and administrative aspects, oversee implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of the Project, and to carry out specialized studies.

1.6 Revised Components
The Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes: There were two significant changes that took place during the
Project. First, in April 2003, a First Amendment was added to the loan to establish the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) as the operation's Procurement Agent, transferring this
responsibility from the implementation agency, SAS. The change was made to supplement
SAS's limited administrative capacity and to reduce the Project's susceptibility to political
pressure and corruption. Second, to compensate for significant implementation delays, which will
be discussed below, two closing date extensions were adopted in 2006 and 2007.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of Background Analysis: Comprehensive background studies underpinned the
operation. The Project was prepared on the basis of departmental level qualitative studies and
survey data and is one of the few CDD operations for which panel data has been used as the basis
for assessing potential and achieved operational impacts. An independent consulting group
utilized existing country data to ascertain the economic profile of eligible communities in the
target departments and establish a baseline from which to measure project impacts. To
complement this quantitative work, the task team undertook a social analysis during the
preparation phase a to discern the scope of the poors' unsatisfied basic needs and the lack of
institutional capacity, using participatory approaches to engage authorities, leaders and
community members across the three target districts. The study identified the main social issues
the Project likely would face, including paternalistic social relations, weak governance
institutions, little transparency in decision-making and resource distribution, political pressures


                                                                                                10
impeding institutional reforms and citizen participation and the lack of a government strategy to
improve access to services.

Assessment of the Project design:
2.1.2 Objectives: Given the extent of the poverty and vulnerability of disadvantaged communities
in Paraguay's three Southern departments (encompassing 50 municipalities), the Project's PDO
and subsidiary DOs responded well to communities' real needs. The PDO was consistent with
both the country's strategic priorities and the 1997 CAS (see section 1.1.5) and remained relevant
in the context of the 2003 CAS, which emphasized good governance and transparency in public
administration, sustained growth, and social inclusion. This assessment is supported by QAG's
2006 Quality of Supervision review.

2.1.3 Components: Limited in number (three) and clear in their formulation, the Project
components were appropriate to realize the development objective. Each component was simple
in its respective design and focused on one primary activity area: Component 1- productive
investments; Component 2 ­ institutional strengthening and capacity building; Component 3-
Project management. Project failures in Paraguay's past had often resulted from insufficient
follow-up. Therefore, each component incorporated regular and ongoing follow-up and
monitoring.

2.1.4 Performance Indicators: The Project's comprehensive results indicators (presented in
Annex 2) were created before OPCS developed the guidelines used currently. The results
framework comprises physical (output) and developmental (outcome) indicators, which would
not be permitted now. Some outcome indicators measure broad poverty reduction achievements
that do not adequately account for Project vs. context attribution. Furthermore, the 10 Key
Performance Indicators (see section 1.2.2) included more output than outcome measurements,
which is why different measures from the results framework have been used as PDO indicators in
the ongoing ISRs (and the ICR data sheet). Yet, these indicator issues are more organizational
than substantive, and ultimately the results framework has enabled thorough monitoring of both
Project outputs and the resulting outcomes.

2.1.5 Organization: Project organization was innovative in the Paraguayan context, as it relied
heavily on newly introduced processes of decentralisation and community local government
participation. Consequently ­ as would be expected - the initial implementation stages were faced
with community suspicion and resistance from local institutions. To address this challenge, the
Project made commendable efforts to gradually build trust among stakeholders at all levels,
achieving a good level of responsiveness to the Project incentives, albeit with some delays. The
Project prepared its institutional strengthen programs to tackle the low organizational capacities
of SAS and local government, as well as the new LCs, DCs, and PCs. Yet the learning curve
proved steeper than anticipated at design, which slowed implementation, especially at the sub-
project pre-investment stage. The Project therefore intensified institutional strengthening, which
continued throughout execution.

2.1.6 Geographic Dispersion: The Project was limited in scope to Itapúa, Ñeembucú and
Misiones. Since the Project responded to community demand while targeting families in extreme
poverty who often live in remote rural areas, there was significant participant dispersion,
particularly in Ñeembucú. The Project was therefore designed considering these complicating
factors and as a result most sub-projects could be reached logistically by Project services
provided by LDAs (Local Development Agents), the departmental PCUs and the Technical
Assistants (TAs). Despite the relative remoteness of Ñeembucú's inhabitants compared to Itapúa
and Misiones, the Project still reached 38% of that department's extreme poor.

                                                                                               11
2.1.7 Implementing agency capacity: SAS held primary implementation responsibility, but the
Project's decentralized nature meant that there were many actors involved in implementation.
Local government (including DCs and LCs), locally sourced TAs, and PCs showed some
management and technical weaknesses, but this was expected, given that strengthening such
capacities was central to the Project's objective. At project effectiveness SAS was a new ministry
and prior to PRODECO had only been responsible for one development project. In addition,
SAS' small staff comprised mostly consultants who had limited relevant experience. Therefore
the Project included substantial administrative and financial support to develop the needed
institutional capacity, including at appraisal allotting 17% of project resources to Component 3
(Project Management) and the establishment of an inter-institutional collaboration with UNDP to
supplement and strengthen SAS procurement capacity.

2.1.8 There was an important trade-off in transferring primary procurement responsibility from
SAS to UNDP. The UNDP partnership eliminated the immediate risks , yet also limited SAS's
opportunity to build capacity by directly practicing these foundational administrative and
management practices. For the reason that the Project's measures related to governance, fraud-
prevention and transparency were being tested for the first time during implementation, the Bank
did not want to rely exclusively on these strategies to ensure the smooth implementation. At the
same time, UNDP's involvement in the Pilot was not intended to establish an external entity as a
permanent procurement agent for SAS. Even though UNDP managed the core aspects of the
Pilot's procurement processes, SAS did maintain some procurement responsibility and also
received specific procurement-related capacity building throughout the operation. The objective,
therefore, of this approach was to protect procurement integrity during the pilot phase and then
transfer such responsibility back to SAS for all future operations, which is what is currently being
planned for the follow-on Project currently in development (see section 2.5 Post-completion
Operation/Next Phase).

 2.1.9 Adequacy of government's commitment: Given the country constraints, overall
Government (SAS and Ministry of Finance, MOF) support was generally adequate. Government
commitment continued throughout the design period (1999-2002) even with national and local
level political shifts. However, Paraguayan political processes slowed Project preparation and
later implementation because of the need to integrate and restart dialogue with new interlocutors.
The delays that followed Project approval by the Bank ­ a year for Congressional approval of the
Project and another year before the provision of counterpart funding ­ should not be
misunderstood as weak government support for the Project. Paraguay's legislative system
requires that Congress approve all Executive branch decisions and existing tensions between
different legislative factions are known to slow decision-making processes. In the case of
PRODECO, while existing disagreements were not related to the Project, they caused this first
delay. Furthermore, since Paraguay finalizes its annual budget law in October of each year but
the Project received Congressional approval in December 2003, the government was required to
wait until October of 2004 to allocate and provide the required counterpart funding to begin
implementation, thus resulting in the second delay. These political and administrative challenges
significantly delayed Project execution but did not derail government support.

2.1.10 Assessment of risks: As the first loan to Paraguay in 5 years, risks to Project
implementation and sustainability were of considerable concern at the Project's inception. The
appraisal invested significant time analyzing potential risks and developing mitigation measures
within Project design. While overall risk was assessed as substantial, procurement risk, in the
context of SAS's limited capacity and the country's significant governance problems, was
assessed as high. Therefore, significant steps were taken in the design to mitigate governance

                                                                                                 12
threats. These mechanisms included: incorporating a higher than usual Bank supervision budget
to enable frequent task team visits and assembling a multi-disciplinary task team for the regular
supervision missions; including mechanisms that required greater than standard Bank oversight of
procurement decisions in the Loan Agreement; mandating the establishment of an independent
PCU within SAS; partnering with the UNDP to serve as the Procurement Agent (in 2003, post-
Bank approval but before implementation); establishing strict quality standards to avoid possible
inappropriate selection of consultants or NGOs; and integrating into the task team a specialized
technical support consultant from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). At the local
level, the Project instituted participatory accountability measures to promote transparency and
increase the likelihood that governance and accountability standards would be met at all Project
levels. Likely due to these mechanisms, the risk of fraud in Project execution was mitigated (see
sections 2.4.5 and 2.4.6 on Procurement and Financial management).\

2.2 Implementation
2.2.1 Overview: The operation was carried out between 2002 and 2008. Implementation began
almost two years behind schedule and therefore the closing date (originally December 31, 2006)
was extended two times to compensate for the implementation delays, as discussed above.
Furthermore, during preparation and implementation, the executive branch experienced three
administration changes, the SAS Ministerial appointments changed six times, and there were two
municipal-level elections. Yet, with Project extensions and the eventual distribution of funds to
participating communities through the sub-projects, the operation generated significant benefits
through economic gains and individual and community capacity development. The performance
of the PCU and technical staff based within the participating districts was critical to the Project's
achievements as well as to the 99 % disbursements of the loan by the Project's closing (December
31, 2008) and 100% by the end of financial grace period (June 30, 2009).

2.2.2 The Project financed 510 sub-projects (495 income generating sub-projects and 15
community development sub-projects). It reached 5,106 families and 29,646 individuals, far
exceeding the target 3,700 families and 18,500 individuals anticipated at appraisal. These results
indicate that the Project reached 20% of the extreme poor across the three target departments (see
Table 1 below). The Project benefited segments of the population that had never received any
formal assistance. In addition, demand from potential beneficiaries exceeded available resources.
The Project received over 1000 proposals for prospective income generating sub-projects, out of
which only 515 could be approved due to the limited resources available.3

         Table 1: Population in extreme poverty reached by PRODECO, by department
Departments                                          Itapúa       Misiones     Ñeembucú       TOTAL

Population in extreme poverty (2002 Census)          113,190      23,269       15,368         151,827

Direct PRODECO Beneficiaries                         17,781       6,056        5,809          29.646

Percentage of extreme poor reached by                15.71%       26.03%       37.80%         19.53%
PRODECO




3
    500 income generating sub-projects were initially approved by the PCU but 5 were never funded because
      of organizational weaknesses. These funds were redistributed among the remaining 495 income
      generating sub-projects and the institutional development sub-projects


                                                                                                        13
2.2.3 The 510 sub-projects were implemented as follows across the three target departments:
Itapúa (240, 48%), Misiones (154, 29%), and Ñeembucú (116, 23%). Sub-projects were
distributed based on beneficiary demand, not in proportion to each department's respective
populations. 75% of sub-projects were implemented in rural areas. This was in large part the
result of greater demand from rural communities, but also because the skill-sets of the majority of
national and local level PCU staff favored the facilitation of rural groups.

2.2.4 PRODECO made special efforts to foster participation of marginalized groups (women,
youth and indigenous peoples). Findings from evaluations and the ICR missions showed that the
Project achieved significant inclusion of these groups, most notably of indigenous peoples and
women. The majority of sub-projects (almost 60%) were managed PCs with mixed
constituencies of women and men. Women- only sub-projects represented almost 17% of total,
exceeding men-only sub-projects (14%). Youth comprise the least represented demographic.
Although the PCU hired an expert consultant to help create a strategy for youth recruitment and
retention, youth involvement remained low throughout the Project, in part because of the unit's
lack of technical skills for working with youth.

                           Table 2: Sub-project, by Beneficiary Category
                            Indigenous
              Department                    Women     Young    Men    Mixed    Total
                            Communities
              Itapúa        28              32        12       30     138      240
              Misiones                      30        4        10     72       116
              Ñeembucú                      19        7        30     98       154
              Total         28              81        23       70     308      510
              As
              Percentage
              of total      5%              16%       5%       14%    60%      100%

2.2.5 Income generating sub-projects were implemented in 22 productive areas, the bulk of which
were in apiculture, agricultural diversification and pig farming (approximately 60% of all sub-
projects). Ten categories comprised 86 % of total sub-projects financed. The community
development sub-projects were distributed across three categories, the majority of which were
skill building/training (9) and commerce/market development (6), with one unique
environmentally-focused sub-project designed to manage native woods recovery (see the Table 2-
1 in Annex 2 for details).

2.2.6 The sub-project decision-making process and criteria are explained in Annex 2. Average
investment per income generating sub-project across the three departments was US$$12,935.
Each community development sub-project received no more than US$5,000. Per capita
investment was US$218 (by beneficiary) and approximately US$1,000 per household. In most
cases, the community contribution for the income generating sub-projects met the anticipated
goal of the minimum 10% to 20% of the total investments. At Project closing on December 31,
2008, because of the extensive delays in implementation discussed above, 220 sub-projects still
had to complete accounting of the funds received and close their accounts. As a result, the
government requested a grace period of 6 months (from December 31, 2008 to June 30, 2009) to
complete the final pledged disbursements. The closing of all sub-projects and 100% disbursement
was physically confirmed at the end of the grace period on June 30, 2009.

2.2.7 To support the Project's intensive capacity building within SAS, and in line with the
prevailing guidance for CDD projects based on lessons learned globally, the Project allocated
17% of the operational resources to Project Management (component 3). It is important to note

                                                                                                14
that the final percentage of total resources allocated to Project Management rose from the allotted
17% to 25% by Project closing, meaning the Project's management investments were higher than
the norm for CDD initiatives. This occurred for three principal reasons. First, the two closing date
extensions discussed above, which added two additional years to implementation, meant that the
PCU had to be maintained for six rather than four years and therefore increased project
management costs accordingly. Second, the deflation of the dollar over the course of the Project
had the implication that operational costs, particularly in Asunción where the PCU was based,
were higher than had been expected. Third, the significant capacity building needs for
municipalities meant that there were higher expenses than anticipated for facilitation at
the local level by the departmental PCU staff.

The following provides insight into issues positively and negatively affecting the Project's
trajectory.

Factors contributing to successful implementation:
2.2.7 The Piloted Community-Driven Development approach ­ The innovative CDD approach
that incorporated beneficiary participation throughout Project decision-making was critical to the
Project's achievements. The operation stayed true to the participatory model throughout and the
benefits were manifold, including: the opening of local spaces for discussion to which most
participants previously did not had access; decentralized management which enabled
representatives from participating districts to take part in key decision-making; and participatory
management, the most significant of which involved sub-project approval by the LCs according
to the established eligibility criteria. In addition to facilitating the income generating sub-
projects' economic success, the CDD model enabled participating communities to build
institutional capacity that would remain after Project completion.

2.2.8 The excellence of the central technical team: The Project would not likely have overcome
the significant challenges of early implementation stages if not for both the high technical quality
and employment continuity of PRODECO's PCU. With significant practical experience and
training in critical development areas, the PCU staff and leadership could resist political pressure
while successfully decentralizing decision-making. The PCU's credibility among authorities
(local, departmental, and national), civil society, and beneficiary communities, sustained
stakeholder confidence even through some of the operation's more challenging stages. The
relatively high percentage of Project resources dedicated to sustaining and providing ongoing
capacity building helped to maintain staff continuity and institutional memory within the skilled
and effective PCU team.

2.2.9 Effective Bank Supervision: Faced with varied and complex challenges, the Bank
maintained its focus on development effectiveness and provided effective supervision recognized
by two QAG panels (see section 2.2.14 below). The multi-disciplinary team's continuity (the TTL
and key team members were the same throughout the Project) and the high frequency of missions
(3 to 6 times annually) helped to preserve institutional memory and build trusting relationships
with SAS and the PCU. This facilitated the Bank's ability to adeptly and promptly provide the
technical and administrative support. The open communication channels that existed between the
Bank supervision team, the PCU and local authorities supported timely resolution of technical
issues and in some cases the commitment this fostered motivated municipalities to contribute
additional resources. The supervision team also worked closely with the PCU to ensure
transparency in procurement.




                                                                                                 15
2.2.10. Mechanisms to reduce clientalism and promote transparency: Given the prevailing culture
of clientelism and absence of transparency in Paraguay, one of the operation's considerable
achievements was its avoidance of cronyism. This resulted in large part from the creation of
mechanisms, such as the UNDP procurement partnership, to mitigate political pressure and create
a transparent institutional culture. In addition, the Project's social monitoring system provided
local people with a means to hold authorities, and the Project itself, accountable.

2.2.11 Decentralized project design: The permanent presence of field staff representing SAS and
the PCU at the departmental level and within local government facilities, enabled PRODECO to
be integrated into local institutional arrangements.

Factors hindering implementation:

2.2.13 Implementation delays: As discussed above, the Project suffered considerable setbacks in
implementation caused by bottlenecks in Congressional approval and the unavailability of
counterpart funding. The two closing-date extensions enabled the Project to be implemented over
four years, as planned, with the Project successfully closing in December, 2008.
2.2.14 Pre-investment time for capacity building: As a result of the two year delayed start, the
Bank supervision team and the PCU felt pressured to immediately launch the income generating
sub-projects, meaning that too little time was dedicated to "pre-investment" capacity building,
technical readiness and sensitization activities at the community level. The practical difficulties
that arose during implementation (regarding group formation, administrative and accounting
practices, for example) likely could have been reduced with more technical training at the outset.
The financial grace period that followed the Project's closing date enabled the resolution of
lingering administrative issues and disbursement of all funds.
2.2.15 Quality of technical assistance: Sub-projects required assistance in four key areas ­
organization, production, administration and commercialization. Very few TAs, even those with
strong skills in one area, could sufficiently provide the necessary support in all four areas. The
weakest skill set among TAs was related to organizational and social competences, such as group
dynamics, limited productive self-sufficiency, low self-esteem, and the participants' anxieties
based on inexperience with such work. These limitations placed additional operational pressure
on the PCU because it forced the central staff to take on project-specific responsibilities from the
weak local teams, resulting in diminished capacity to focus on strategy and macro-level
management.
2.2.16Group formation and eligibility: Groups came together in a variety of ways, but in many
cases participants responded to solicitations by PRODECO trained TAs or local authorities who
sought sub-projects for their communities. The implication of this was that PRODECO did not
necessarily respond to real beneficiary demand in terms of the choice of productive area, which
contributed to decreased group ownership. Eligibility criteria also complicated group formation.
While the eligibility criteria enabled a concentration on families in extreme poverty, it also
excluded individuals, like community leaders, who possessed capacity and skills that could be
advantageous for maintaining and sustaining income generating sub-projects. The Project revised
some eligibility criteria during implementation so that higher skilled individuals could be
included, improving the human capital level of many PCs.
2.2.17Beneficiaries' conditions of extreme poverty: Facing daily life with insufficient resources to
meet basic needs created some situations in which beneficiaries used capital or goods assigned to
the Project to meet household needs. In other cases, the profit earning delays associated with
starting and investing in a small business deterred potential participants from either committing to


                                                                                                 16
or carrying on their engagement because their urgent short-term needs, like obtaining food or
medicines, took precedence over longer-term Project benefits.

Mid-term and Quality Assurance Group Reviews
2.2.16 Mid-term Review - The Mid-term Review (MTR) was undertaken by an independent
international consultant in 2005. The objective was to investigate the Project's interim status,
assessing the viability of the objectives, governing assumptions and the selected implementation
mechanisms in the context of the operation's early stages and initial impacts. The low level of
Project execution at the time of the review, resulting from the previously mentioned
implementation delays, meant that few measurable outcomes could be observed. At the same
time, the operational process itself provided important observations and findings. Positive
conclusions included: (a) the success of decentralized management and trust in the Project; (b) the
operational strength of sub-projects in terms of improved negotiation skills and cooperative
capacity; and (c) the importance of the DCs and LCs which offered new bottom-up mechanisms
to tackle extreme poverty and exclusion. Critiques focused on (a) the overall weakness of the
technical assistance; and (b) the low participation of youth (in contrast to women and indigenous
groups), who had been a target vulnerable population.

2.2.17 Actions undertaken in response to MTR findings and recommendations include: (a)
carrying out an independent impact evaluation conducted by researchers from Virginia Technical
University; (b) developing a strategic development plan for each participating district; (c)
extending the closing date; (d) adopting a new technical assistance model; (e) focusing on
approving and financing sub-projects that were simpler and therefore better suited for the
beneficiary communities; (f) undertaking an independent management audit; (g) finalizing the
design for and implementing an electronic accounting system; and (h) beginning preparation for
additional financing to scale up the pilot.

2.2.18 QAG Reviews ­ The operation underwent two Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviews
on Supervision or Projects at Risk, the first in September 2006 and the second October 2008.
Both QAG review panels gave the Project an overall Supervision rating of 2. The more recent
QAG review from October 2008 concluded the overall PDO was likely to be achieved because:
(a), the quantitative targets for reaching beneficiaries had been achieved and surpassed regarding
inclusion of marginalized groups (DO1) and (b), capacity building goals were achieved,
demonstrated by strengthened sustained local community involvement in participatory and
transparent processes to screen beneficiaries and select sub-projects (DO2). The Project also
received several 1 ratings in component areas such as Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms,
governance arrangements in project design, attention to outcomes in supervision.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design
2.3.1 The project's M&E arrangements were clearly designed to ensure a focus on the poor, with
data disaggregation by type of beneficiary, and with well laid out methods for proper data
collection. Given the country's risky implementation environment, the budget allocated for M&E
was high, supported ­ in the early implementation stages - by FAO staff and consultants. A set of
58 clear and precise performance indicators was defined to monitor sub-project progress at all
levels of the log-frame hierarchy. Given the degree of geographic coverage and beneficiary
dispersion, the monitoring system was rightly designed to measure average sub-project
improvements through sampling, rather than trying to do exhaustive household-by-household
follow-up.

M&E implementation

                                                                                                17
2.3.2 Rated 1 by QAG in both supervision reviews, the Project had a well functioning M&E
system based on sound and well supervised data collection methods. The system combined
project reports with survey data, beneficiary registry, and participatory monitoring and
evaluation. As designed, a baseline survey was completed in 2004, before sub-projects were
approved. Between 2004 and 2006, all beneficiaries were surveyed prior to sub-project start,
using the same questionnaire, which was also repeated in 2007 on a sample of beneficiaries and
non-beneficiaries to allow comparison for the Preliminary Impact Evaluation (household survey),
produced in August of that year.

2.3.3 A participatory monitoring system was put in place and provided regular feedback to
beneficiaries and project managers. In addition, a system of "Social Monitoring" implemented in
partnership with the local NGO Instituto de Desarrollo, was introduced in 2006 and was
instrumental in eliciting local perceptions of Project progress through "Score Cards" on a sample
of about 20% of beneficiaries. Procedures for filing complaints were also established, but
achieved only limited success. At least two status visits were carried out by the PCU technical
team for each sub-project in the period 2004-2008, Project progress was monitored with the help
of an efficient Management Information System (MIS).

2.3.4 Ongoing sub-project monitoring faced the most notable challenges. The LDAs, who were
responsible for managing SP monitoring, focused on this less than anticipated because they spent
significant time compensating for the weaknesses of many TAs. This made ongoing review more
difficult. In addition, a great deal of sub-project status reporting was done in paper-form which
contributed to increasing field personnel's' work load and required increased handling by the
PCU.

M&E utilization
2.3.7 The PCU Project Coordinators4 have always worked closely with the M&E Officer to
ensure the timely use of appropriate M&E data for project decision-making. M&E data was used
to (a) identify evidence for problems in implementation; (b) track the real progress of a sub-set of
beneficiaries in relation to non-beneficiaries and (c) set up corrective mechanisms to overcome
persistent difficulties. The MTR and Impact Assessment recommendations were also followed up
to the extent possible and the supervision team made good use of all data generated by the M&E
system. A major lesson learned from implementing the M&E system was the crucial importance
of beneficiary participation. The high degree of beneficiary involvement in monitoring
PRODECO activities proved how implementation can be improved and ownership instilled
during regular consultations with (and feedback to) participants.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social and Environmental Safeguards

2.4.1 Indigenous People's Policy: Although indigenous peoples made up only a small part of the
beneficiary population, the Project paid particular attention to engaging indigenous groups,
involving 28 PCs and surpassing the target for sub-project disbursements and indigenous
participation. Furthermore, the Project made a special effort to secure a JSDF (TF058022) grant
($1.6 million) for indigenous community development. Per the Task Team's understanding of

4
    Note that the Project Coordinator from 2006-March 2009 was the former M&E Officer who had worked
     on PRODECO's M&E system since its design stage, and hence managed the project with great
     attention to M&E concerns.


                                                                                                   18
Quality Assurance Team (QAT) guidance regarding Indigenous Peoples, the decision was made
not to formally trigger OP 4.20. At the same time, the project developed special mechanisms
designed to guarantee benefits for indigenous communities, such as through trainings and
acquiring of indigenous-dedicated funds. Subsequent analysis by the Task Team and the
Safeguards Advisory Team (SAT) in 2007 as part of preparation for the Additional Financing,
reevaluated the earlier decision not to trigger the policy. Even though the Policy was not formally
triggered, the extensive mechanisms the Project integrated to ensure inclusion of indigenous
peoples, maintain indigenous involvement, and secure culturally sensitive benefits for indigenous
participants, have been viewed as equivalent to a Indigenous People's Plan. As a result, the
project has been commended for its dedication to indigenous concerns, by QAG, among others.

2.4.2 Environment: The Project was assigned a "B" environmental classification. Despite the
relatively low environmental impact risks of PRODECO activities, the Project put in place ­ from
the early stages of sub-project preparation ­ a thorough system to comply with World Bank
safeguard policies and procedures, as well as with government certification requirements (Ley
294/93, Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental). An Environmental Officer was employed on a part-
time basis for sub-project environmental risk assessments, developing mitigation measures,
reviewing proposals for licensing. Sub-projects considered potentially risky to the environment
included those with activities in agriculture (horticulture, soya production, etc) using agro-
chemicals and aquaculture with considerable interventions to divert water resources (construction
of canals and tanks)An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was prepared,
appropriately disclosed and discussed with stakeholders, setting out legal requirements, sub-
project screening, and approval procedures and provides analysis of a range of sample sub-
projects.

2.4.3 Related capacities improved considerably during the life of the Project following: a) the
development of guidelines on environmental impact assessment and mitigation in 2006; and b) a
series of training workshops on integrated pest management and safe handling of agro-chemicals
(attended by 90% of target beneficiaries by 2007). By the end of 2007, all 510 active sub-projects
included an adequately formulated section on potential environmental risks and proposed
mitigation measures. Two reviews in 2006 and 2007 brought to light some problems of pest
management that were subsequently dealt with. Supervision ratings were realistic and Borrower
commitment to safeguard compliance has been strong.

Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.5 Procurement: The Project did not involve complex procurement. Beneficiaries were
required to select technical assistance providers from a roster of approved individuals, NGOs, and
firms whose qualifications were reviewed by the PCU, with standard TORs and consultant rates,
thus leading to an efficient procurement operation. The quality of procurement arrangements
and attention to Governance and corruption issues in design were adequate. In the context of
SAS's weak capacity to manage procurement, overall procurement risk was assessed as high. The
Project adequately addressed this by incorporating a procurement officer in the PCU and hiring
the UNDP to manage procurement implementation. The 2008 Procurement Post Review (PPR)
documented some procurement irregularities and one case of fraud by a technical assistant.
Further investigation showed that there was no misuse of Bank funds since the PCU had taken
action before contracting took place. This one case, and a few others found by Government in
which actions potentially were unlawful, were turned over to the authorities and prosecuted in
court. Feedback from the Bank Procurement team noted that procurement, in general, should have
been given greater attention in the financial audits. It also suggested that to facilitate such
monitoring for CDD projects of this kind, there should be a requirement that all sub-projects keep
a running list of purchases.

                                                                                                19
2.4.6 Financial Management and Audits: Financial Management was an important aspect of
Project preparation supported by an August 2000 Japanese PHRD Grant (TF026317) which
included a Financial Management Assessment (FMA) of SAS and implementation support by a
Financial Management Study during preparation. There were no delays in FMRs or External
Audit reports. At the same time, the first 2004 External Audit, subsequent External Audit reports,
in addition to the 2005 MTR, FM/Procurement missions and the last 2008 PPR, as discussed
above, flagged internal control and transparency issues, demonstrating that the FM design Action
Plan did not have sufficient system controls (such as Concurrent Auditing Procedures of
randomly selected sub-projects). In the context of a reappraisal for an Additional Financing Loan
in early 2008 a FMA of the Project was carried out resulting in a comprehensive Action Plan to
address and strengthen all pending FM issues. This plan proved its effectiveness, with the April
2009 final audit finding showing that some progress had been achieved at SAS to address and
previous audit weaknesses. The FM team has shared that an important lesson learned for future
CDD projects was that a traditional audit is not sufficient for this kind of project because it
focuses on the central project unit and not the individual sub-projects, which is where, in the case
of PRODECO, the principal financial irregularities were ultimately found. Therefore, in the
future it would be important to have concurrent audits at the central and project level to enhance
the CDD project control framework.

2.4.8 Disbursements: The first disbursement occurred in 2003 due to the congressional approval
delays described above. Each subsequent disbursement took place according to Bank
requirements (see Table 3 below), even as implementation was a deferred until 2004 because of
counterpart fund unavailability. As the disbursement graphic in the Data Sheet shows, the level of
disbursement was lower than expected in the first three years of operation (cumulatively less than
a third of the planned amount), mainly because of the delay in effectiveness and the time required
to build up the necessary institutional infrastructure and participatory processes. The actual
disbursement profile matched the plan developed at appraisal, with 68% disbursed in 2006 , all
fund committed and 99% disbursed by Project closing, and 100% disbursed by the end of the
grace period, June 30, 2009.

                              Table 3: Total Disbursements per year
                            Year    Total Disbursements from loan
                                    US$            Cumulative Percent
                            2003    900,000.00     10%
                            2004    768,166.99     18%
                            2005    1,142,153.58   31%
                            2006    3,294,649.54   68%
                            2007    1,824,183.90   88%
                            2008    997,440.40     99%
                            2009    73,405.59      100%
                            Total   US$9,000,000
                                      Source: Prodeco, PCU.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Additional Financing: On February 29, 2008, The World Bank Board approved Additional
Financing (AF) of US$9 million to scale up the Project and extend the closing date to September
30, 2011. The AF was intended to support expansion of the target Project Area so that in addition
to Itapúa, Ñeembucú and Misiones, the Project would include five new departments (Caaguazú,

                                                                                                 20
Central, Cordillera, Guairá and Paraguarí) and reach 5,000 additional poor families (equaling
over 27,500 beneficiaries). The April 2008 presidential elections resulted in a transition of power
between political parties and when the new administration took office in August 2008 it signaled
that it was not to be interested in accepting the AF, viewing the Project as too closely associated
with the previous authorities. Nevertheless, following several months of negotiations, reviews of
project results and SAS participation in stakeholder consultations, on PRODECO's scheduled
closing date December 31, 2008, the Bank received the Government's formal confirmation of the
Additional Financing. As part of confirming the AF, the Government requested several
modifications, including a new project name - "Productive Initiatives for Solidarity" - and
revising the Project Area so that among the 8 departments listed above, the departments of San
Pedro, Caazapá, Canindeyú would be included in place of Cordillera, Guairá and Paraguarí.

2.5.2 New Operation: In June, 2009 the Bank and the GoP agreed to pursue a stand-alone,
follow-on loan for US$20 million instead of AF for PRODECO. Therefore the closing-date
reverted to December 31, 2008 (re-triggering the requirement of an Implementation Completion
Report for PRODECO which was not needed under the AF). The Productive Initiatives for
Solidarity Project is currently in preparation and capitalizes on PRODECO's implementation
experience, utilizing the CDD methodology and adopting the principal development objective. In
addition to supporting operations in 8 departments (Caaguazú, Caazapá, Canindeyú, Central,
Itapúa, Misiones, Ñeembucú and San Pedro), the new Project includes provisions to provide
follow up with the 87% of PRODECO sub-projects still in operation. In addition, the new project
has integrated several significant changes based on lessons learned from the Pilot. Two important
revisions include giving SAS full Procurement responsibility, re-designing the provision of
technical assistance and triggering the Indigenous People's Policy.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
Rating: High

3.1.1 Throughout implementation the Project Development Objective has had high overall
relevance for communities in extreme poverty in Paraguay. Regarding design, the decentralized
community-driven approaches have targeted the poorest, most vulnerable populations, building
human and social capital, as well as institutional capacity, while also generating new economic
opportunities and productive assets. CDD has become an important development tool for the
World Bank and this Project contributes to the Bank's positive CDD track record. Moreover, as
demonstrated by the quantitative and qualitative studies undertaken during the Project, the
methodology as implemented within the Paraguayan context has achieved positive impacts and
could be a model for adoption in other settings.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
3.2.1 The evidence strongly suggests that the Project Development objective - to test a
community driven development approach to improve quality of life and social inclusion by
supporting productive income generation activities (DO1) and building local institutional
capacity to identify, design and implement these activities (DO2) - was fully achieved. This
assertion is grounded in the findings of: (a) the 2007 Independent External Impact Assessment
carried out by Virginia Tech University; (b) the October 2008 Quality Assessment of the Lending
Portfolio (QALP-1); (c) the 2009 Economic and Financial Analysis conducted for the ICR; (d)
conclusions from the Borrower Completion Report; (e) feedback from beneficiary consultations
and direct stakeholder interviews; and (f) results of the final supervision mission and ICR


                                                                                                21
preparation missions. The following discussion presents the main findings of these diverse
assessments, integrating the main KPIs and PDO indicators.

3.2.2 Testing the CDD approach: The overriding PDO was successful in "testing" the
decentralized, participatory, bottom-up development approach in Itapúa, Misiones and
Ñeembucú. Using panel data, the project tracked and analyzed the economic experiences of
beneficiaries and a control group of non-beneficiaries in two distinct phases. Results were
included in the 2007 Virginia Tech Impact Assessment as measured against the initial baseline
study of both populations. With this methodology, the Project not only succeeded in piloting the
CDD approach in the Southern Paraguayan context, but it also established a means by which to
measure the extent of its effectiveness.

3.2.3 Improving quality of life and social exclusion:

DO 1 - supporting small productive, income generating and community development sub-
projects for poor communities.

    PRODECO reached or surpassed its quantitative beneficiary targets: PRODECO benefitted
    more than 5,106 families and 29,646 persons through 510 sub-projects, thus meeting or
    exceeding the targets of the first four output indicators. The target for inclusion of vulnerable
    and socially marginalized beneficiary groups (including indigenous groups, women, and
    youth) has also been exceeded by 75% (and amount to nearly 30% of total sub-projects).

    The employment rate and income levels among direct beneficiaries has increased: The
    quantitative section of the Virginia Tech Impact Assessment found that unemployment
    among beneficiaries had decreased from 12% at the beginning of the Project to 0.03% , while
    for non-beneficiaries it had increased from 14% to 17% during the same period. Moreover,
    the assessment found that the employment rate among direct beneficiaries had reached 80%
    with the creation of the equivalent of 1,300 full time jobs. In addition, average monthly
    family income among beneficiary families was documented as having increasing by 40%,
    from US$60 in 2002 to US$84 per month in 2007 twice the target Percentage. Given that not
    all family members were employed only with PRODECO, other earnings could have
    contributed to the increase. Yet, as captured in the impact evaluation, the continued low
    employment rate for non-beneficiaries showed that the Project likely played an important role
    in this increase.


    Poverty rates among beneficiaries have decreased: This increase in employment and income
    generating opportunities has had a measurable impact on poverty rates among beneficiaries.
    Based on consumption and assets data, the Virginia Tech Impact Assessment suggests that
    there has been a decrease of more than 10% in the poverty and extreme poverty rates. While
    this cannot be fully attributed to the project's intervention, the panel design of the assessment
    provides a high degree of confidence. Furthermore the study's qualitative interviews supports
    the quantitative evidence, with beneficiaries asserting that PRODECO was a primary
    influence that improved their wellbeing and livelihoods.

DO2 - building capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to identify,
design and implement these activities.

(a) Transparent and participatory implementation and monitoring mechanisms were created,
    fostering significant community participation: The Project's Mid-Term Evaluation as well as

                                                                                                  22
    recent monitoring data shows that the Project is contributing to a greatly needed culture of
    results, transparency and social participation. It has successfully developed institutional
    mechanisms to identify potential beneficiaries, make decisions at the local level regarding
    investment priorities, and deliver benefits (funding and technical assistance) in a transparent
    and participatory manner, even while operating within an extremely weak institutional
    context.

(b) PRODECO has helped to change the way in which beneficiaries participate in local decision
    making structures: The Virginia Tech Impact Assessment showed that PRODECO
    participants are statistically more likely to say that their neighbors are trustworthy, and much
    more likely than non-participants to say that the household has influence over local affairs.
    Moreover, when they trust organizational decision making to be democratic, PRODECO
    participants are more likely to join such groups, which is consistent with an increased sense
    of influence. The Impact Assessment, later supported by the closing stakeholder workshops,
    found that both participants and local authorities perceived that, compared to non-
    participants, PRODECO beneficiaries were more able to act in their own self-interest and
    effect change.


(c) Local institutions and community groups have developed new capacity as demonstrated by
    increased involvement in local civic and development activities: The Impact Assessment
    indicated that communities (including non-beneficiaries) have increased their capacity for
    decision-making and collective action over the course of the Project, (i.e. a PRODECO
    beneficiary-spearheaded request to improve local roads, and increased active participation in
    local educational committees). During the end-of-project stakeholder consultations,
    beneficiaries expressed that they felt more empowered to approach authorities and had
    established a more assertive and influential voice in local decision making and requests for
    municipal support.

3.2.4 As asserted in the QALP Review, given that the overarching PDO was underpinned by the
two subsidiary DOs, the fact that the two subsidiary DOs were achieved supports the conclusion
that the overarching objective was fully achieved.

3.3 Efficiency
3.3.1 The 2007 Virginia Tech Impact Assessment concluded that all cases examined showed
financial viability and that the positive impacts exceeded opportunity costs. The results from the
final Economic and Financial analysis conducted for the ICR showed that the expected Economic
Rate of Return for the selected sample of sub-projects was positive, ranging from 10% to 87%.
Moreover, all analyzed sub-projects presented positive Net Present Values (NPV), averaging the
equivalent of US$14.857 per sub-project considered. Considering that the previous results may
have been overrated by the exceptionally high ERR for some of the sub-projects, for a second
round of analysis, those with ERR surpassing 50% were excluded. The results from these sub-
projects showed that the ERR averaged 22 %, with positive NPV for all the sub-projects with an
average value equivalent of US$5,200. As a result, the economic analysis concluded that,
considering the amount invested in the 495 income generating sub-projects was approximately
US$6.5 million and the average ERR of 22 %, the capital invested by PRODECO would be fully
recovered in 4.5 years. In addition, the positive externalities described throughout the economic
analysis determined that the general economic, financial and social impacts from the Project were
substantially positive and established a basis for further scaling-up CDD productive projects in
Paraguay.


                                                                                                 23
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The satisfactory rating is based on the following considerations:

(a) The Project Development Objective and the subsidiary development objectives remained
relevant from Project start to finish, responding to the needs of the target communities and were
fully achieved. The components as designed and implemented were consistent with these
objectives. As demonstrated in the Data Sheet, discussed in section 3.2, and presented in full in
Annex 2, the PDO Indicators, KPIs and results indicators were achieved.

(b) The participating communities responded well to the Project's CDD methodology. The
operation not only reached significantly more beneficiaries than predicted at appraisal, but more
households than the pilot had the capacity to reach sought Project services.

(c) Beneficiary communities demonstrated important gains in human capital and social capital
formation as well as in increased productive, organizational and administrative knowledge.

(d) The Project was fully disbursed with positive results and the majority of sub-projects (87%)
successfully reached completion and achieved positive rates of return.

(f) The Project's participatory Monitoring & Evaluation systems were exceptional, in design and
implementation, and received recognition from all external evaluations and Bank QAG panels.

(g) The Project recognized Paraguay's environment as posing high control risks, and took a
number of specific measures, such as participatory accountability at the local levels, to protect
transparency and ensure governance and accountability standards. These measures succeeded in
earning community confidence and commitment, strengthening the level oversight and cutting
down on project-level opportunities for corruption.

(h) Analyses of the Project's economic efficiency concluded that the representative sample of
cases examined showed financial viability and that the positive impacts exceeded opportunity
costs.

(i) The Project consistently received satisfactory PDO and IPO ratings on the ISRs throughout the
operation.

3.4.2 The ICR team rates the outcome achievements as "satisfactory" rather than "highly
satisfactory" given some issues in sub-project procurement, quality of the technical assistance
component, and insufficient investment in community institutional development prior to the
initiation of the sub-project phase. However, for a pilot project, these weaknesses are minimal.
The Project offers ample quantitative and qualitative evidence of the fact that the tested CDD
approach was a success and could be used as a model for future CDD efforts.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
3.5.1 Poverty impacts: The analyses discussed in the outcomes section above and in the
Annexes, present PRODECO's potential to increase participating families' incomes and hence
directly contribute to poverty reduction. Furthermore, the Virginia Tech impact study found that
- controlling for other factors - households participating in the Project had significantly better

                                                                                               24
indicators of children's school attendance, presenting a 14% higher enrolment rate with fewer
age-eligible children withdrawn from school. Since years of educational attainment is directly
correlated with diminished family poverty, these higher enrollment and attendance rates
demonstrate strong potential for significant poverty impacts. Another positive effect shared
anecdotally through beneficiary consultations was the reduced out-migration of community
members, to the cities or other countries, because of the increased employment and income
generation opportunities created in their communities.

3.5.2 Gender Aspects: Women actively participated in the Project and have ­ in many cases -
provided leadership in PCs, LCs and DCs. While the Project had no quota system to ensure
women's participation, it is estimated that all PCs had at least 25% female members. Out of the
24 DC members, 6 were women, while out of the 490 LC members, 150 were women at the time
completion. Of the 510 sub-projects financed, 80 were exclusively women's committees, while
43% of all beneficiary households were female headed.

3.5.3 Social Development: The Project, at its core, was a social development initiative. Findings
from evaluations and ICR missions showed that PRODECO achieved significant inclusion of
marginalized groups, most notably of indigenous groups and women. Stakeholder interviews and
consultations with participants, LC and DC members and TAs revealed that in addition to
enhanced technical skills, the Project supported social capital gains. Beneficiaries acquired new
knowledge and abilities to organize themselves in groups and manage work in a participatory and
transparent manner. At the community vs. individual level, the Project succeeded in strengthening
authorities' and community leaders' capacities to implement participatory, demand-driven and
poverty focused initiatives. The creation and strengthening of the LCs and DCs provided nexuses
for social networks, some of which became active in non-Project related activities. These new
organized community-based units strengthened local planning mechanisms and managed
community concerns through greater participation.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.4 Institutional change and strengthening were part of the Project's development objective. As
a result, significant time and resources were dedicated to developing and strengthening capacity
at the leadership and lay levels of the local communities. It is important to recognize that the
creation of LCs and DCs as local decision-making bodies fulfilled a legal mandate for
decentralization, which for most municipalities had only existed on paper. The time spent
incorporating the community in all aspects of the Project enabled participants to directly apply the
knowledge and skills they gained. For example, endowing the LCs and DCs with the primary
decision-making functions for the income generating sub-projects (in key areas such as sub-
project approval and expenditure review), while extending the implementation time frame and
increasing the need for frequent supervisions, also built local level administrative, operational,
technical and budgetary skills that could be applied in the future. While the technical assistance
component proved to be one of the most challenging areas of the overall operation, these efforts
built the technical capacities of local community members and contributed to increasing local
knowledge.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5 The Project has had a number of unintended positive impacts. The most important one has
been the formalization of local businesses (sub-projects as well as local providers) in what was
typically an informal commercial environment. This was prompted by the need for sub-projects to
provide fiscal receipts for their purchases, and their consequent pressure on local providers to

                                                                                                 25
register, so as to provide such receipts. Another positive unintended outcome relates to the period
of the municipal pre-election campaign in 2006, during which sub-projects attracted considerable
political interest and were supported.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
3.6.1 As part of the Project closing and preparing the ICR, the PCU organized stakeholder
workshops in the three target departments, which the Bank team attended. The workshops
included members of the PCs, LCs, DCs, and TAs. In the Misiones workshop, the SAS Minister
attended and dialogued directly with stakeholders. There were several main lessons that can be
highlighted as points of consensus:
    (a) Quality of Life: Participants experienced positive changes in their quality of life
    including: generation of employment and earnings, acquisition of new administrative,
    commercial and technical skills, and increased confidence and self-esteem.
    (b) Eligibility Criteria: Although the criteria were created to focus on families in extreme
    poverty, participants from across the different stakeholder groups asserted that these were too
    strict and often excluded community leaders among others and as a result the groups suffered
    from inadequate human capital among the participants, which hindered productive success.
    (c) Technical Assistance: Technical assistance quality was disparate and in many cases there
    was a low availability of local qualified TAs. The outsourcing of technical assistance was
    perceived as a significant problem and hindrance to the continuity and quality of the services
    provided.
    (d) Project Unit Support: The vast majority of participants in the three workshops praised
    the assistance they received from PCU and the Local Development Agents, crediting their
    interventions with having a central role in their sub-projects' economic successes.
    (e) Collaboration with Local Authorities: The majority of participants, including the few
    local decision-makers who attended, asserted that local authorities' involvement was critical
    to sub-project success and sustainability. Conversely, the lack of such ongoing interest and
    attention was to blame for sub-project challenges.
    (f) Transparency and Participation: The majority of participants recognized that
    PRODECO's processes from initiation to completion were transparent, which greatly
    contributed to the empowerment of the groups.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

3.6.1 Evidence from participating communities demonstrates how the Project fostered human
capital formation and the empowerment of communities in extreme poverty. Participants have
implemented the knowledge gained through the Project, including planning, budgeting,
management,       financial accountability,     decision-making,     product marketing and
commercialization. As of Project closing, 87% of sub-projects had demonstrated their
sustainability because they had maintained production and commercialization. In addition, the
newly created local-level organizational structures had the increased likelihood of surviving over
the long-term, because the Project succeeded in integrating them with activities undertaken by
local governments. Project efforts were consistently focused on establishing sustainable
implementing agencies, as well as long lasting productive investments. Some local governments'
independent provision of additional resources to sub-projects showed that in initiatives had come
to be valued in their communities.

3.6.2 The ICR team has rated the risk to development outcome as "moderate" because the long-
term sustainability of many groups requires continued follow-up. Given the short existence of
some of these groups and the low levels of capacity with which most participants started, it is

                                                                                                26
possible that some sub-projects will not be able to continue, unless they receive follow-up
assistance either from SAS and/or from the departmental/municipal authorities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 PRODECO was an innovative CDD Project with a strong social rationale and a sound
analytical foundation. It was also highly relevant to the targeted communities' needs and included
appropriate mechanisms to address them. Project preparation was inclusive, participatory and
transparent. Vulnerable groups were rightly identified, eligibility criteria concretely established,
and supervision mechanisms adequately elaborated. Monitoring of social issues was also well
incorporated into the design of the Project. Recognizing Paraguay's extreme governance risks, the
Project put in place several participatory accountability measures to protect transparency and
ensure good governance standards. The PAD correctly anticipated that a lack of political
continuity and weak local level technical capacity would be significant risks, as proved to be the
case. In addition, the Project made special efforts to increase the sustainability of the newly
created organizational structures by linking them with local government activities. Efforts were
consistently focused on establishing sustainable implementing agencies, as well as sustainable
productive investments.

5.1.2 However, as the 2006 Quality of Supervision Assessment insightfully identified, even with
the innovative and sound design and a component fully dedicated to institutional strengthening,
given the difficult country conditions, the Project was over-optimistic in its expectations for
improvements in local institutional capacity. This overestimation of local capacities was
important in the context of PRODECO, for which capacity building was central to the strategy for
supporting sub-project development and long-term viability. Bank Performance in Ensuring
Quality at Entry is rated as "satisfactory", taking into consideration: (a) on the one hand, the
capacity constraints as well as the other significant challenges the Project had to face at entry; and
(b) on the other hand the Project's planning achievements in other areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank paid timely and consistent attention to implementation issues and overall Bank
supervision was strong. The Bank team was readily available and committed to visiting the
Project frequently on regular supervision missions and being promptly accessible while at Head
Quarters. Based on supervision missions' findings, as well as monitoring and evaluation studies,
the Bank helped to focus on providing support before and during sub-project implementation.
There was appropriate and timely follow-up and advice from management on implementation
issues flagged in ISRs. Bank supervision also made good use of data from Participatory
Monitoring and from the Virginia Tech Impact Assessment.

5.1.4 Given the country's risky implementation environment, the supervision budget was high,
with annual FAO contributions allowing for frequent visits by a specialized technical support
consultant. Supervision staff had a strong mix of skills and showed high continuity. The Bank
TTL followed the Project through from preparation until its completion. Because of the country's
"poor governance" reputation, the Project provided for substantial FM and procurement
oversight. The Project's M&E system, with its use of panel data, enabled the Project to be one of

                                                                                                   27
few CDD efforts with quantitative evidence of impact. Participatory monitoring at the local level
also contributed to better oversight and limited opportunities for fraud in sub-projects.

5.1.5 The main challenge associated with the Bank's performance in providing implementation
support to PRODECO was associated with the PCU's need to respond individually to each Bank
"player" (TTL, Procurement, etc.) rather than being involved in a streamlined process (as
expressed in the Borrower Completion Report). In addition, as pointed out by consultants and
external auditors, FM management oversight was less vigorous than desired, given the persistence
of some issues.

5.1.6 During implementation, the ratings of both the DO and IP were candid and realistic. In two
different QAG evaluations processes (2006, 2008) the Project received an overall performance
rating of 2 for the quality of Bank supervision.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.7 In summary, the Project was pioneering in that it introduced the CDD approach to Paraguay
and was initiated at an opportune moment in terms of the Government's increased attention to
reducing extreme poverty and social exclusion. The Bank team was aware of country risks and
therefore integrated notable innovations in social monitoring and participatory accountability.
Strong supervision enabled the Pilot to be carried out in line with appraisal, respond to lessons
learned during implementation, and ultimately achieve the PDO, even in the context of significant
political and structural challenges.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.1 The Government was closely involved with Project preparation and design, but legislative
procedures, as discussed above, caused the 20 month gap between loan signing and the start of
implementation. The lack of timely counterpart funds meant that essential Project hiring, such as
to establish the PCU, was further delayed. It is essential to note that delays in Congressional
approval in Paraguay are common and most projects take 16 to 18 months to receive approval and
become effective. In addition, it is also important to highlight that once the Government provided
the first installment of counterpart funds there were no other problems procuring government
resources. In fact, during implementation the Government provided greater resources than had
been originally pledged, illustrating its commitment.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.4 SAS has been the implementing agency since Project inception, with six leadership
transitions over the course of the operation. The lack of leadership continuity has directly affected
the level of commitment and consistency of ministerial involvement in Project execution. This
turnover hindered efforts within SAS to strengthen management and technical weaknesses. At the
same time, in response to SAS' limited capacity, the Project created a PCU located within the
ministry. The PCU staff consisted of local consultants directly hired by SAS in consultation with
the Bank task team. The staff proved to be highly qualified with notable background experience
relevant to PRODECO. Unlike similar project units in Paraguay, PRODECO's PCU had strong
staff continuity. While mainstreaming the PCU into SAS's overall program was slow, SAS


                                                                                                  28
recognized the strength of the PCU, transferring other SAS responsibilities to the unit and
keeping the team intact even after the Project had closed.

5.2.5 As the first Bank Investment Operation in Paraguay in more than five years, at the start of
implementation, authorities demonstrated resistance to what they saw as strict operating
procedures. There were some cases of ministerial staff exerting pressure on the PCU to approve
sub-projects or to implement activities that would favor their constituencies. However, it is
important to highlight that as each ministerial team became accustomed to operations, they
recognized that following the Project's established policies delivered results and satisfied
beneficiaries. As a result, the Project's enabling environment improved over the course of
implementation as did SAS' institutional capacity. The authorities consistently supported regular
stakeholder involvement throughout design, implementation and monitoring.

5.2.7 The PCU proved to be well organized and demonstrated both adequate management
experience and strong independence, ensuring implementation in line with the approved
Operational Manual. The team's high quality and commitment to the Project meant that, even in
the context of political and structural challenges, they could advance implementation. In
circumstances where district staff and TAs proved weak, the PCU's technical staff stepped in to
fill capacity gaps. While this compromised their ability to focus on strategy and forward-
planning, it enabled the Project to overcome significant hurdles. In addition, PCU staff also
developed strong relationships with beneficiary communities, which inspired confidence and trust
that contributed to sustaining sub-projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.6 The Borrower's performance suffered from significant delays in approval and resource
provision created in large parts by legislative procedures outside of the implementing ministry's
control. Yet performance was improved by the consistent strength of the PCU, as demonstrated
by the staff' technical competence, sustained effort, ingenuity in the face of challenges and
instability, and ability to manage government pressure. Moreover, the fact that each of SAS'
rotating leadership teams came to accept the operational principles and supported the Project,
contributed to Project achievements. The overall borrower performance is rated as "satisfactory",
given that, even in a context of legislative weaknesses and significant political instability, the
borrower helped to the Project realize its objectives.

6. Lessons Learned
The Project has generated a rich set of lessons. The following represent those considered most
important by the ICR authors, the Bank team and the Project Unit:

Conceptual:

(a) To be more effective a Community-Driven Development approach needs to link income
generating activities with efforts to improve social inclusion. The various qualitative and
quantitative analyses undertaken demonstrated that the Project had tangible economic
achievements while staying true to a participatory, bottom-up model. While not without
complications in execution, the Project's achievements show that bringing beneficiaries and their
communities more centrally into development processes will not sacrifice either efficiency or
productivity, as some CDD critics assert.



                                                                                               29
(b)Capacity building initiatives for communities in extreme poverty, as important as they are
for building skills, will not be successful if they are separate from efforts to improve economic
wellbeing. When working with communities confronting extreme impoverishment, it is necessary
to use an integrated approach that takes into consideration basic needs at the same time as
capacity and skills development for a better, less vulnerable future. Capacity building
interventions much be combined with clear economic efforts ­ be they subsidies or income
generating activities - that will fulfill people's urgent household priorities and survival strategies
because these will always receive the greatest attention from groups in such at risk circumstances.

(c) It is important to create and maintain simple and accessible social accountability
mechanisms to increase the likelihood of long-term project sustainability and build trust
among beneficiaries. Such instruments that community members can use to hold managers,
decision makers, and the project itself to account, like participatory monitoring and regular web
publication of project documents, make project processes transparent, as well as identify areas for
improvement. Such systems that clarify resource allocation, make clear participation
opportunities, and provide channels for citizen feedback, help achieve development goals as well
as build the public's confidence that the Government and its partners can be both inclusive and
evenhanded in its provision of services.
(d)Too narrow a focus on serving those in extreme poverty can have the perverse effect of
disrupting pre-existing social networks thereby thwarting the larger objective of improving
social inclusion. Not only can efforts to foster the extreme poors' participation at the exclusion of
other community members weaken social capital, it can reduce available human capital by
leaving out those - like community leaders ­ whose skill sets could have in fact enhanced an
enterprise's productivity.

Operational:

(a) To implement successful and sustainable community-driven income generating projects,
upstream development of organizational capacity, social capital and conflict mediation is as
important as technical assistance in production, management and commercialization. For
CDD projects it is essential to allocate substantial pre-investment time to social capital issues,
such as working in a team, managing conflict, building trust between members, before initiating
new productive activities. In order to successfully begin building technical skills and launching
productive initiatives, members must have established partnership, confidence and trust, while
creating mechanisms for managing problems as they arise. Therefore investment in these social
capital issues, not only for beneficiaries but also for community leaders and decision-makers, has
proven to be as crucial an investment for long-term CDD project sustainability as high quality
technical assistance.
(b) Projects that are more strongly rooted in pre-existing community organizations have
demonstrated better productive results and therefore it is important to outreach and strengthen
relationships with local government, civil society, universities and cultural/religious
institutions. Investment in and development of long-term partnerships between community actors
has been shown to have a direct impact on development projects' outcome sustainability.

(c)It is important to build upon existing institutional arrangements and try to strengthen them
even if creating new systems from scratch would appear to facilitate project implementation in
the short term. For long term viability of income generating development initiatives, it is
important to be connected to locally developed systems because such organizational structures,
like Local Development Committees, if properly supported, can be a hub that connects public


                                                                                                   30
institutions, local government, business, civil society and citizens, and grounds a project in the
long run.
(d) In Paraguay intense project supervision is essential. Paraguay has been developing its
institutional capacity in many areas, stressing the decentralized and autonomous authority of sub-
national government. At the same time, there is still not a stable public entity autonomous entity
that can take responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of development programs. In this
context, it is necessary for the World Bank and other development agencies to engage in
intensive, continuous project monitoring in order for difficulties ­ whether related to fraud or
capacity ­ to be identified and addressed. At the same time, the results and lessons learned from
such intensive supervision should not remain within the project should be translated into technical
recommendations the Government, civil society and wider public.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's letter (Annex 7), based on its review of the Bank's draft ICR, states its agreement
of the with the ICR's depiction of the Project's successes, achievements and shortcoming.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                                                                                31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 1. COMMUNITY
                                                          8.28             97 %
DEVELOPMENT                             8.56
SUBPROJECTS
 2. CAPACITY BUILDING
                                                          0.49             73 %
AND INSTITUTIONAL                       0.67
STRENGTHENING
 3. PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION,
                                                          2.80             144 %
MONITORING AND                          1.95
EVALUATION (INCLUDING
FRONT-END FEE)


            Total Baseline Cost              11.18               11.57             103 %
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00
             Total Project Costs             11.18
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00
     Total Financing Required                11.18



(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
                                                                    1,392,576.99 121%
Borrower                                               1.15
                                                                   9.00           100%
Local Communities                                      1.03
 International Bank for Reconstruction                             1,177,736      114%
                                                       9.00
and Development




                                                                                               32
                                    5
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Investment Sub-projects

2.1 The Project financed a total of 510 sub-projects (495 income generating and 15 community
development sub-projects) sub-projects, reaching 5,000 families and 27,500 individuals and
surpassing the number of families (3,700) and individuals (18,500) anticipated at appraisal.
Income generating sub-project investment took place across 22 productive areas. The five most
common income generating sub-project categories (apiculture, agriculture diversification, pig
farming, bakeries and horticulture) account for more than 61 percent of total sub-projects. Ten
categories comprised 86 % of total sub-projects financed.

2.2 Sub-projects as implemented across the three target departments were as follows: Itapúa
(239, 53%), Ñeembucú (114, 23%), and Misiones (143, 24%). In most cases, the community
contribution met the anticipated goal of the minimum 10% to 20% of the total investments.
Average investment per sub-project was US$12,935. Per department, average investments
ranged from US$ 14,306 in Itapúa, US$ 14,306 in Misiones and US$12,464 in Ñeembucú.

The following summarizes results by component and sub-projects.

Component 1: Community Development Sub-Projects (US$ 8.28 mil., IBRD US$6.78 mil.))
102% of appraisal estimate and 75% of total cost)

2.3 Component purpose summary: The purpose of this component was to finance small scale
demand-driven sub-projects prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries with the
input of Technical Advisors. Per project design, sub-projects were to fall into two possible
categories: (a) income generation sub-Projects, would include agricultural diversification (e.g.
raising of pigs, chickens, flowers), small enterprises, artisan workshops, eco-tourism, and services
such as laundries, processing facilities, and community markets; and (b) community development
sub-Projects for activities that would complement productive investments such as child care
facilities, community centers, and child/youth development. Sub-Project proposals were
submitted for approval to the Local Committees (LCs) or the Departmental Committees (DC)
which verify beneficiary and sub- Project eligibility criteria and review the technical merits of the
proposals, with support from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Participating municipalities
were also eligible to present sub-project proposals on a limited scale and the component provided
financing for technical assistance for sub-Project identification, preparation and implementation.

Results from implementation:

2.4 The following tables show the type and quantity of income generating and community
development sub-projects financed by PRODECO.

Table 2-1 Distribution of Sub-projects
Income Generating Sub-project Num                 Community Development Sub- Num
Categories                                        projects Categories
Apiculture                             96         Skill building/training    9
5
 This Annex was prepared collaboratively by the ICR authors, the PRODECO PCU and the author of the
2009 Economic and Financial Analysis, Victor Vazquez.


                                                                                                  33
Agricultural Diversification      70     Commerce/market development                     6
Pig Farming                       66     Environmental Protection                        1
Local Bakeries                    38
Horticulture                      33
Apparel                           33
Poultry                           25
Medicinal Herbs                   23
Aquaculture                       23
Dairy                             21
Lamb and Goat Farming             14
Sugar Cane Syrup                  10
Cleaning Products                 10
Organic Sugar                     7
Grains and other food stuff       5
Laundry Services                  5
Rabbit Production                 4
Handicrafts                       3                                                      14
Silk                              3
Food Processing                   3
Photocopying Services             3
  TOTAL Income generating sub-    495          TOTAL Community
              projects                      development sub-projects                     15
       Total PRODECO Sub-projects                          510
                               Source: PCU-PRODECO.

2.4Main investment areas: Among the income generating sub-projects financed, there was clear
dominance of agriculture and livestock related sub-projects. Among the ten more common sub-
projects, only bakeries and apparel production were not directly related to these activities. Several
reasons can explain this pattern: i) considering the low level of industrialization, the majority of
beneficiaries were involved directly or indirectly in rural or peri-urban activities which therefore
related to agriculture; ii) agriculture and livestock sub-projects were technically simpler and
therefore more understandable for beneficiaries and also for LCs and DCs; and iii) Technical
Assistants had considerable influence over the choice of project and therefore, related to their
capacity and the relative ease of designing, coordinating and supporting such projects, TAs were
more likely to promote agriculture and livestock initiatives.



2.5 Of the 15 Community Development sub-projects, the majority (13) were located in
Ñeembucú, with only three in Misiones and one in Itapúa. The maximum amount of the IBRD
contribution was US$5,000 per Municipal Initiative; each municipality provided an additional
counterpart contribution of at least to a minimum of 15% of the project resources. As the table
above shows, the sub-projects were distributed across three main areas, the majority related to
Supporting Training/community capacity building and the development of/support for markets,
with one unique environmentally-focused sub-project designed to manage native woods recovery.
Municipalities offered training opportunities primarily by establishing community training
centers, which offered courses for community members most commonly in the categories of
informaiton technology and basic employment skills. Agricultural product marketing centers
were also financed.


                                                                                                  34
2.6 Distribution between income generating and community development sub-projects: As a
demand driven project, the final distribution between income generating and community
development sub-projects, 97% and 3% respectively, reflects beneficiaries' overwhelming
interest in projects that directly offered the promise of new sources of income versus those
intended to enhance personal and community capacity for undertaking economic activities. In
fact, the only official community development initiatives were the 15 submitted by municipal
governments to respond to community capacity needs in areas such as information technology,
administration, and market knowledge.

2.7 It is important to recognize that some income generating sub-projects integrated capacity
enhancing activities into their budgets and business plans. For example, a bakery sub-project in
(which department) set aside resources to build a meeting room that members used for decision
making and marketing planning. The project team did not have information readily available
about which income generating projects included such capacity development components and
how those projects fared vs. those that did not. Therefore, beyond isolated known cases, an
overall conclusion about the impact of such activities is not possible.

2.8 Geographic sub-project distribution: Sub-projects were distributed across the three target
districts based on beneficiary demand and not based on proportional population. Itapúa, a
department with 5 and 6 times the population of Misiones and Ñeembucú, respectively, had the
greatest number of sub-projects (47%). Ñeembucú, the smallest of the departments, was second in
terms of number of sub-projects, with 154 sub-projects, representing 30% of the total. Moreover,
Ñeembucú was notably the department which requested 11 of the 15 community development
sub-projects and all sub-projects dedicated to municipal capacity strengthening. This could be an
indication that local authorities in Ñeembucú had a greater level of commitment to strengthening
the enabling environment for small-scale business. It is worth noting that the project benefited
segments of the population that had never received any formal assistance because of challenges
related to their extreme poverty status, such as Villa Franca, Villa Oliva, Alto Verá, among
others.

    Table 2-2 Sub-projects by Department
                                                                        % income generating
Department          Population (2000)       % Pop.     Sub-projects
                                                                        Sub-projects
Itapúa                     490,969          72.2%      240              47.1%
Misiones                   100,385          14.8%      116              22.7%
Ñeembucú                    88,285          13.0%      154              30.2%
Total                      679,639          100.0%     510              100.0%

    Chart 2-1: Sub-project distribution by Department




                                                                                              35
                                       Source: PRODECO, PCU.
2.9 Sub-project product achievements and challenges across the departments: While there
were some commonalities, each department had unique experiences with launching and
sustaining business across the range of productive areas. Apiculture and horticulture proved to be
successful in all three departments. In Itapúa and Misiones the production of herbs for natural
medicine was a top producing category and in Ñeembucú apparel became a highly productive
area after several producer groups organized together to sign a contract with the Pilar
Manufacturing Company. Although dairy production and laundry services were considered
notably fruitful enterprises in Ñeembucú and Itapúa, in Misiones these activities were noted for
their challenges, attributed to considerable limitations in local opportunities for
commercialization. Misiones also faced particular difficulties in all areas of animal rearing
because of the persistence of adverse weather conditions and the lack of available cultivable land,
while livestock was one of the more profitable enterprises in Itapúa. In fact, in Itapúa rural-based
(and agriculture dominated) enterprises were the most successful, while urban sub-projects, (20%
of the total) accounted for a high percentage of the most problem plagued initiatives. The PCU
attributed this to the lack of high quality technical assistance available to support the kinds of
initiatives that were appropriate for an urban environment.

2.10 Urban and Rural Sub-project distribution: By residence area, 75% of sub-projects were
implemented in rural areas. Ñeembucú was the only department where the proportion of urban
sub-projects reached almost 50%, reflecting the concentration of population in the capital city of
the Department (Pilar). It also reflects the low population density in the rural areas which created
obstacles for assembling PCs and accounts for why Ñeembucú-based rural committees had the
fewest members across the three departments. All the community development projects took
place in urban areas, which is logical given that in cities such projects, sponsored by authorities
for their constituents, would be more centrally available and have more likelihood of attracting
higher numbers of participants. Overall however, the project included fewer urban sub-projects
than anticipated. While there was sufficient demand among rural communities to utilize all the
available resources, new strategies for recruitment and for on-going technical support would need
to be employed by the follow-on project, in order to better reach the urban poor.

    Chart 2-2 SUB-PROJECTS, BY URBAN OR RURAL LOCATION




2.11 Participant demographics: The table below shows the distribution of beneficiary
participation. PRODECO specifically reached out to foster the participation of marginalized
groups (considered as women, youth and indigenous peoples) and tried to include single group
committees so that members of the marginalized communities would have greater access to
leadership roles. Table 2-3 shows that each of the targeted beneficiary groups was included, but
not at equivalent levels. The majority of sub-projects (almost 60%) were for PCs with mixed
constituencies among women and men. Women's only sub-projects represent almost 17% of the

                                                                                                 36
total, exceeding men's exclusive sub-projects (14%). Sub-projects conducted by PCs integrated
with indigenous people and young persons represent the smallest amount of initiatives.
Indigenous PCs were formed exclusively in Itapúa. Findings from evaluations and the ICR
missions showed that PRODECO achieved significant inclusion of marginalized groups, most
notably of indigenous people and women.

    Table 2-3 SUB-PROJECTS, BY BENEFICIARIES CATEGORIES
              Indigenous
Department                Women Young Men Mixed Total
              Communities
Itapúa        28          32     12     30   138  240
Misiones                  30     4      10   72   116
Ñeembucú                  19     7      30   98   154
Total         28          81     23     70   308  510
As
percentage
of total      5%          16%    5%     14% 60%   100%


2.12 In most cases, the community contribution met the anticipated goal of the minimum 10% to
20% of the total investments. At project closing date, December 31, 2008, 220 sub-projects still
had to complete financial accounting. With this in mind, the Government requested a grace period
of 6 months (from project closing December 31, 2008 to June 30, 2009) to complete the final
pledged disbursements. 100% disbursement was physically confirmed at the end of the grace
period on June 30, 2009. The following provides insight into issues affecting the Project's
trajectory.

Component 2: Capacity Building and Institutional Development (US$.49 million, US$ 0.67
mil., IBRD US$.60 mil., 82% of appraisal estimate)

2.13 This component was designed to facilitate Project implementation by strengthening local
communities' capacity to design and implement the income generating and community
development activities and to facilitate their participation in overall project implementation. Such
ongoing support services was provided in the form of technical assistance, outreach for
community organizing, training and organizational development, and the implementation of a
participatory monitoring and evaluation system for participants to have outlets for their feedback.

2.14 The main activities administered through this component took the following forms: training
for civil servants from the 3 participating Departments and 56 Municipalities to establish their
respective Development Councils (3 DCs and 56 LCs) and sustain their participation throughout
and after the project; specialized technical assistance for the Development Agents and Technical
Assistants to strengthen their technical skills and their capacity to support and provide instruction
to PC members; outreach to support the development of new groups, primarily among
unorganized vulnerable social groups including women, youth and indigenous peoples;
organizational development for beneficiaries, community organizations and members of local
government to enhance their management and administrative skills as well as introduce
participatory methodology for community governance. This component financed the majority of
training, workshops, and seminars offered to stakeholders as a means to increase the capacity for
the income generating projects to succeed and remain viable over the long term.




                                                                                                  37
2.15 The project initially had greater aspirations for providing capacity building to governmental
officials and non-governmental organizations beyond those with direct involvement in the income
generating sub-projects, which is demonstrated by several of the output indicators created during
appraisal. However, implementation experience showed that there was a less organized civil
society than previously assessed. In the early stages of Paraguay's decentralizing government
there were in fact far fewer active civil servants and government officials than anticipated who
could take part in such training and there was less demand among those that were in the position
to participate. In addition, because of the significant delays in starting the project and pressure to
launch the income generating projects, there was less time spent on pre-project capacity building.
This accounts for why only 82% of the budgeted allocation for his component was actually spent
on the planned activities. The remaining 18% was reallocated to Component 1 and 3 as those
components as the needs arose.

                                  Table 2-4: PRODECO Capacity Building

Training Activities                 Audience                      Quantity and Year
                                                                  2003 2004     2005   2006    2007
Capacity building in the            Workshops for DCs and         4      30     0      0       0
formulation, supervision and        LCs
evaluation of sub-projects          Workshops for TAs             12    37     4       10
Capacity building in                Workshops for DCs and         6     70     0       0       8
organizational management           LCs
and administration
Project preparation                 Workshops for potential       0     14     0       0       0
                                    TAs
Incorporating gender                Workshops for DCs and         0     0      0       10      0
perspectives into all levels of     LCs
project participation               Workshops for TAs             0     0      0       6       0
                                    Workshops for PCs             0     0      14      17      0
Training in accounting              Workshops for DCs and         0     0      10      29      0
procedures for sub-projects         LCs
                                    Workshops for TAs             0     0      20      12      7
Capacity Building in Impact         Workshops for DCs and         0     0      0       8       0
Evaluation of environmental         LCs
impact                              Workshops for TAs             0     0      4       4       5
                                    Workshops for PCs             0     0      0       41      2
Capacity Building in building       Workshops for DCs, LCs,       0     0      0       3       0
and supporting social capital       TAs and others

Capacity Building in Social         Workshops for PCs             0     0      0       40      90
Organizing
                                    Workshops for PCs             0     0      0       0       253
Product specific training           Workshops for PCs and TAs     0     0      0       2       86
(production, marketing, etc.)
Preparing District level            Workshops for civil society   0     0      270     0       0
development plans                   and other social actors

Capacity building for youth         Workshops for community       0     1      3       0       0
populations and social              youth
exclusion




                                                                                                    38
Courses in strengthening          Workshops for civil servants   0   0      0       0       2
writing and communication         in Misiones (as requested by
skills                            the municipality for
                                  government employees)
Implementing Social               Workshops for PCs              0   0      0       0       40
Monitoring                        Aplicación de tarjetas de      0   0      0       0       1.400
                                  monitoreo social
Capacity Building in project      Workshops for PCU              0   0      1       5       0
management, local and             personnel
regional planning,
procurement and contracting,
leadership and mentoring,, etc.

2.16 A sound participatory monitoring system was put in place and provided regular feedback to
beneficiaries and project managers. In addition, a system of "Social Monitoring" implemented in
partnership with the local Paraguayan NGO Instituto de Desarrollo, was introduced in 2006 and
was instrumental in eliciting local perceptions of project progress through the use of "question
cards" on a sample of about 20% of beneficiaries. A system of filing complaints was also
introduced during the same period, but achieved only limited success because. At least two status
visits were carried out by the central technical team for each project in the period 2004-2008 ­
undertaken by the central technical team. Project progress was monitored with the help of an
efficient MIS.

Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$.2.80 million, IBRD $US
1.62 mil.. 165% of appraisal estimate)

2.16 This component supported the establishment of a centralized Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) located within and supervised by SAS and based in Asuncion. Four individuals served as
Project Coordinator of the PCU, managing a small core team of specialists including financial,
procurement, administrative and technical staff (as established in the Operational Manual). The
unit coordinated the project's technical and administrative aspects, overseeing implementation
and monitoring and evaluation of the Project. It also provided technical assistance to the LCs,
DCs, TAs and directly to the PCs when local capacity was insufficient, and carried out
specialized studies. There were five DCAs, decentralized to the departments, who promoted
Project activities and follow-up with Project beneficiaries and civil society.

2.17 Institutional arrangements were designed to foster and strengthen involvement of local
communities in Project implementation as well as to develop SAS's capacity to work and
collaborate with local governments and civil society organizations in establishing partnerships for
implementing poverty alleviation and socially inclusive programs. The institutional arrangements
of the Project were founded on three core principles: (i) highly participatory mechanisms to
ensure that local level institutions, private sector, civil society organizations and government
agencies collaborate; (ii) decentralized, bottom-up and transparent decision making through the
establishment of LCs and DCs; and (iii) strengthening of local institutions and development of
the skills required for identifying, planning and implementing socially inclusive community
driven development at the local level.

Beneficiary Eligibility and Sub-project Decision-making Processes

2.18 Based on a demand-driven approach, the project provided open access to all eligible
populations. Special efforts were made to involve youth, women (particularly female-headed
households) and indigenous groups, and this outreach included a strategy focused on both the

                                                                                                39
integration and retention of indigenous participants. Targeting was designed with the awareness
that demand-driven projects tend to favor pre-existing groups and better resourced municipalities
and therefore can leave out the most vulnerable and socially excluded. Therefore, the project
incorporated targeting methods that combined socio-economic, household asset and human
capital characteristics to ensure more fair and equitable access. Initially, to be eligible for
financing, PCs and sub-projects had to comply with a set of criteria specified in the Operational
Manual (OM) which were to ensure beneficiaries would only be among the extreme poor.
Therefore eligibility criteria included socio-economic factors, productive assets, unsatisfied basic
needs (housing, water and sanitation) and human capital characteristics (particularly years of
education) and required 100% compliance. These eligibility criteria complicated group formation.
While they enabled the project to specifically concentrate on families in extreme poverty, it also
excluded those individuals, like community leaders, with capacity and skills that could be
instrumental in maintaining and sustaining income generating projects. In consultations,
beneficiaries and other stakeholders blamed the eligibility criteria for interfering with creating
balanced committees that would have sufficient skill sets to successfully undertake commercial
endeavors.

2.19 Sub-project proposals were submitted to Local Committees (LCs) or Departmental
Committees (DCs) which reviewed and approved them based on the established eligibility criteria
of the beneficiaries in the associated PCs and the technical merits of the proposals. LCs included,
on average, nine members who represented community and public institutions including the
Church (1), local universities and/or schools (1), civil society organizations (3), local and
departmental councils (2), a representative from the STP (1), and a community development
agent (from the PCU). These committees met twice a year to review Project implementation
progress and were responsible for assessing proposals of up to US$ 15,000 (an estimated 80% of
total sub-Projects), and providing a public account of all work. LCs were established in all
districts of more than 10,000 inhabitants and in clusters of maximum four districts of no more
than 10,000 inhabitants, based on proximity and population criteria.

2.20 DCs were established in each of the three departments and included representatives of the
Church (1), civil society organizations (2), local universities (1), departmental government
representatives (3), a representative of STP (1) and a member of the PCU. The DC's role was to
review and approve proposals for income generating sub-projects between US$ 15,000 and US$
35,000, as well as for municipal development initiatives. Similar to the LCs, the DCs met twice a
year to review Project implementation progress and to provide a public account of their work.
DCs were responsible for selecting only 10% of all approved sub-projects, since the average sub-
project budgets for each department fell below $15,000. LCs approved 442 sub-projects, with
Itapúa's residents receiving almost half of them. Both committees sent all the sub-project
proposals approved to the PCU for verification and their decisions and results of assessments
were announced in public meetings.

                         Table 2-5: Local Sub-Project Decision-making
                      DC-Community          DC­Income
Departments                                                      LC                    Total
                      Development SPs       generating SP
Itapúa                1                     29                   210                   240
Misiones              3                     12                   101                   116
Ñeembucú              11                    12                   131                   154
Total                 15                    53                   442                   510




                                                                                                 40
2.21 Evaluations: The project financed a Mid-term Review study in 2006, an independent
Impact Analysis in 2007 and an Economic and Financial Analysis in 2009. A baseline survey was
prepared during project preparation. As noted in the main text, the 2007 impact analysis was the
most in depth evaluation of PRODECO's societal outcomes and even though the results were
from a year before the project's end, the quantitative and qualitative results demonstrated
significant poverty reduction and employment generation outcomes, in line with the project's
aspirations. The final economic analysis was conducted expressly for the ICR and funded by
these Bank resources. The stakeholder consultations conducted in November 2008, which the
Bank and ICR team attended, served as important inputs for the ICR as they provided space for
the expression of diverse opinions/lessons. Over the months of July and August, following the
end of the grace period, the PCU also solicited written feedback from a wide range of
stakeholders, including local and national government officials, NGO partners, members of the
LCs, DC and TAs. This feedback augmented the findings from the stakeholder workshops.

2.22 Communication and dissemination: Throughout the project's life, hundreds of workshops,
seminars and meetings were financed to explain project objectives and implementation
arrangements. Training was offered in the many aspects of sub-project formulation, processing,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation. The PCU and local LDAs took on the bulk of the
responsibility                    for                      these                       efforts.




                                                                                             41
Table 2.4: Results Indicators

                                                                                                      Target

                                                            Com-
Item                       Indicator                                Source1
                                                           ponent                               Year 1    Year 2       Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
                                                                              Unit   Quantity
                                                                                                 2003      2004         2005     2006     2007     2008

       Physical/Development performance:
       a) input
       Hire (District) Community Development
 1     Specialist                                            3       MS       N°        5         6                      1                 -1       -2
 2     Hire TA Specialists for PCU                           3       MS       N°        4         4
 3     Vehicles/Motorcycles Purchased                        2       MS       N°        7                      4
       Eligible municipalities participating in the
  4    project                                               2       MS       N°        55       56
  5    Project DCs created (cum.)                            2       MS       N°        40       14            30        7        4
  6    Eligible departments participating in the project     2       MS       N°         3        3
  7    Project CCDs created                                  2       MS       N°        3        2             1
  8    Purchase computer equipment packages                  2       MS       N°         6       8                                5
  9    Project dissemination events                          1       MS       N°         3        3
 10    Radio promotion campaigns                             1       MS       N°        3                                1
 11    Leaflets produced                                     1       MS       N°        3         1                      1        2
 12    Leaflets printed and distributed                      1       MS       N°      3,500     1,000          1,000    1,200    1,000
 13    Project preparation/management workshops              1       MS       N°         2                     14
 14    Project monitoring and evaluation workshops           1       MS       N°         2                               3        9       20        6

       b) Outputs
 15    Special Studies carried out                           3       MS       N°        5                                1        2        1        1
 16    M&E related studies carried out                       3       MS       N°        3                    1            1                1
 17    Projects audited                                      3       MS       %         15                  4            22        8       9        64
 18    Project CD meetings held                              2       MS       N°        72        6         18           18       18       9        6
 19    Project CDD meetings held                             2       MS       N°       960       50        300          400      330      220      165



                                                                                                                                                  42
     TA in project mgmt/adm provided to
20   municipalities                                  2   MS                     20    40    70
21   Scholarships (mgment/adm/technical) provided    2   MS   N°    33                            19
22   Workshops to train trainers held                2   MS   N°     3          20    23    55    42
23   Workshops to train survey providers held        2   MS   N°     6                3      3     3
     Workshops to train councils on subproject
24   management held                                 2   MS   N°    18     4     8     6    72    29       11
     Workshops to train CS on subproject mgmt &
25   monitoring held                                 2   MS   N°    15                      72    29       11
     Workshops to train NGOs on subproject
26   preparation held                                2   MS   N°    6                 14    15
27   Workshops to train councils on M&E held         2   MS   N°    24     4     8     6    56
                                                                                                           1400
                                                                                                        reviewed,
                                                                                                         by LCs
                                                                                                         and DCs
                                                                                                         and 702
                                                                                                          sent to
                                                                                                         PCU for
     Subproject proposal outlines submitted for                                                        considerati
28   consideration                                   1   MS   N°   1,250        57    143   502             on

     c) Outcomes
29   Trainers Trained                                2   MS   N°    60          30    44    37    60
30   Survey providers trained                        2   MS   N°    80                45    35
31   Municipalities receiving training               2   MS   N°    55          55    55    55
32   Departments receiving training                  2   MS   N°    3           3      3     3
     Civil servants trained in promotion, project
33   mgmt, M&E                                       2   MS   N°   3,500   30   40    70    45
     People trained in promotion, subproject mgmt,
34   M&E                                             2   MS   N°   150          150          95
35   NGO trained in subproject preparation           2   MS   N°    40           10           4
36   New groups formed                               2   MS   N°   150           70   180   152




                                                                                                          43
     Group permanence after subproject
37   implementation (yrs 1&2)                              2   MS   %     80
     Percentage of beneficiary groups applying to
     other funds and initiatives during or after project
38   implementation (cum)                                  2   MS   %     25
     Increase in access to basic social benefits and
     programs by groups who benefited from the
39   project                                               2   MS   N°    40         10         20         30        40        40           60
     Total income generating community subprojects
40   implemented                                           1   MS   N°    525                   57        143       300
     Subprojects targeted to vulnerable groups
41   implemented                                           1   MS   N°     80                   18         43        74
42   Families benefited by subprojects                     1   MS   N°   3,700                 587       1,518     3,001
43   full-time jobs (equivalent) created                   1   MS   N°   1,300                 190        476       400        600
     d) Process
44   % of subprojects audited with positive results        3   MS   %     95                    90         95       100        90           80
     % of beneficiaries corresponding to the target
45   profile                                               2   MS   %     100                  100        100       100
     Degree of participation by beneficiary groups in                       Qualitative: Positive evolution showing increased participation and
46   decision making processes at the local level          2   MS   N°                                  transparency

     Community complaints about "processing                                Qualitative: Negative evolution showing increased transparency and
47   flaws" with regards to subproject selection           2   S    N°                           efficiency in the process
     Participatory project monitoring and evaluation
48   meetings held                                         3   MS   N°     18                                7         4        6           3
     e) Impact
                                                                           Poor                                                         10 percent
                                                                         79.1%;                                                         decrease of
                                                                         Extreme                                                       poverty and
                                                                           poor                                                          extreme
                                                                         57.2%.                                                        poverty rates
                                                                          Target                                                          among
                                                                         reduced                                                       beneficiaries
49   Decrease in poverty (index) among beneficiaries           S    %      10%




                                                                                                                                           44
                                                                                                60 percent;
                                                                   Initial:                     1,300 full
                                                                 25.6% %.                        time jobs
     Increase in lasting employment among                          Target:                     (equivalent)
50   beneficiaries                                     S    %        60%                          created
                                                                  Average
                                                                    Initial
                                                                   Level:
                                                                  US$60.
                                                                   target:                        40 %
                                                                  Average                        average
     Average Increase in family income among                      Increase                     increase to
51   beneficiaries                                     S    %      of 20%                        US$85
     Non-targeted physical monitoring indicators
52   Urban subprojects implemented                 1   MS   N°                19   33     72
53   rural subprojects implemented                 1   MS   N°                38   110   228
     Subprojects approved at district level
54   implemented                                   1   MS   N°                42   127   278
     Subprojects approved at department level
55   implemented                                   1   MS   N°                14   16    23
56   Subprojects targeted to women implemented     1   MS   N°                11   25    48
57   Subprojects targeted to youth implemented     1   MS   N°                 1    4    18
     Subprojects targeted to indigenous people
58   implemented                                   1   MS   N°                6    14     8

     1
         MS = Monitoring system; S = Survey data




                                                                                                   45
                                                   6
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction
3.1 The Pilot Community Development Project aimed to test a decentralized, participatory,
bottom up development approach as a way to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of
poor rural and marginal urban communities in three departments on the southern border of
Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones and Ñeembucú). The Project objective was to develop the capacity of
local communities to implement poverty alleviation and community development activities by:
supporting small productive, income generating and community development sub-Projects for
poor communities; and building capacity of local institutions and beneficiary organizations to
identify, design and implement these activities. To achieve this objective, the Project: Financed
small grants for demand-based income generation and community development sub-Projects;
Supported institutional development activities for strengthening the capacity of local governments
and community organizations in the planning, design, implementation and evaluation of
development Projects; and developed a transparent and participatory monitoring and evaluation
system.

3.2 The Project financed a total of 510 sub-projects (495 income generating and 15 community
development sub-projects). The income generating projects covered 22 productive categories.
Five most common areas (apiculture, agriculture diversification, hog farming, bakeries and
horticulture) accounted for more than 60% of total sub-projects and the top ten comprised 86 %
of total sub-projects financed. The Project reached 5,000 families and 27,500 individuals,
surpassing the number of families (3,700) and individuals (18,500) anticipated at appraisal. (For
more information about the distribution of sub-project funding by region and activity, as well
other implementation details, see Annex 2).

3.3 The sample cases examined by the Economic Analysis showed that financial viability and that
the expected Economic Rate of Return for all the selected projects were positive, ranging from
10.2 to 86.8 %. Also, all 18 sub-projects present positive net present values, averaging the
equivalent of US$14.857 per sub-project considered.

Economic Context Relevant to PRODECO's implementation
3.4 At the time of PRODECO´s preparation and approval process, Paraguay suffered stressful
economic and political circumstances. Only after 2003, the Government adopted (with the
support of the Breton Woods institutions) a stabilization and recovery program that helped to
restore fiscal discipline and allowed economic growth. Paraguay took advantage of the favorable
external macroeconomic conditions that followed, as a result of neighboring countries registering
important levels of growth, increasing their demand for Paraguayan main export products, and
rising prices in products like vegetable oils, cereals and meat.
6
  This discussion is primarily based on the economic and financial analysis undertaken by Paraguayan
economist, Victor Vazquez during July and August 2009. It is important to recognize that the first hand
data collection and analysis were undertaken after the Bank and the Country decided to forgo the 2008
approved Additional Financing for a new follow-on loan. This, therefore, as described above, reestablished
the need to complete the ICR for PRODECO which instead of being extended to December 31, 2011 would
now be considered to have closed December 31, 2008. The continuation of the PCU to prepare for the new
loan provided the analyst with sufficient support to conduct such an analysis, but the timing meant that
certain first-hand data was no longer available (i.e. the three field offices had closed at the end of June) and
the analysis had to be conducted in a shorter period than would have otherwise been the case. At the same
time, as the text here shows, the analyst was able to come to several substantial conclusions about the
economic viability of the project.


                                                                                                            46
Table 3-1 GDP, SELECTED ECONOMIC SECTORS (1999-2008)
   SELECTED ECONOMIC
                               1999   2000     2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007 2008*
           SECTORS
Agriculture                     2.7   -10.2    18.8     4.9   11.8   3.0    -5.4    1.2   24.1   10.5
Livestock                      -0.3     1.0     1.7     3.8   -1.2   7.5    15.1   10.6   -6.8    6.5
Forestry                       -4.4    -4.0    -9.3    -0.5    2.0   3.1     6.8    2.0    2.5    1.5
Industry                       -0.5    -2.2    -0.7    -1.4    0.7   3.3     2.7    2.5   -1.2    2.2
Construction                   -5.8    -7.8    -1.4    -8.9   14.4   2.1     4.5   -3.5    7.2   10.5
Total Production of goods      -0.1    -5.3     5.7     1.0    6.1   3.5     1.2    2.6    8.6    7.1
Total production of services   -2.0    -1.5     -0.9   -0.5    1.9   4.6     4.3    5.9    5.6    4.7
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)   -1.5     -3.3    2.1     0.0    3.8   4.1     2.9    4.3    6.8    5.8   Source:   BCP.   (*)   2008:
Preliminary

3.5 Increasing demand for Paraguayan products in the external market during the period 2003-
2008 expanded exports by more than four times than the level at the beginning of PRODECO.
Relatively new products like flour and cereals were introduced as new export products. Soybean,
vegetable oil, and meat also exhibited impressive expansion. Only cotton exports registered a
dramatic reduction.

3.6 While Paraguay's urban sector economy (commerce, services and industrial activities) and
large-scale agricultural producers experienced the growth described above in the years since
2002, the urban poor and small farmers have not been shown to have benefited from the
economic dynamism and increasing exports. The lack of productive diversification in both rural
and urban areas has decreased employment opportunities and exacerbated migratory movements.
Poverty levels in several districts of the three departments targeted by PRODECO were as high as
those observed in the poorest regions of the country.

3.7 Taking into account that only around 12 % of the Sub-projects were not directly related to
agriculture and livestock production (for instance, apparels production, laundry services,
handicrafts, etc.), weather conditions must be recognized as having had an important influence on
the majority of the activities promoted by PRODECO. In general in these departments, small
agricultural farms, which primarily rely on the production of less profitable, small-scale crops
such as sugarcane and corn, are the main source of employment. All three target departments are
vulnerable to climate change, which affects agriculture and livestock activities. Recurrent
droughts had a negative effect on all farmers, but particularly small farmers.

3.8 Land distribution is an important issue to be considered when analyzing the potential impact
of development projects in the three Departments. Misiones and Ñeembucú show similar uneven
distribution of land, with 96% and 97% of their respective total areas covered by properties
bigger than 20 hectares. Properties smaller than 20 hectares represent 83% and 62% of total
number of properties in these Departments, covering only 4% and 3% of their respective area.
Itapúa presents only to some extent a better distribution of land than Misiones and Ñeembucú,
with 19% of properties covering 86% of the Department's territory. According to the preliminary
results of the National Agricultural Census (CAN, 2008), 66% of Itapúa's soil is suitable for
agricultural activities, compared to only 35% in Misiones and 14% in Ñeembucú. These factors
heavily influence the productive structure of each Department. For instance, it explains the
relative importance of livestock production in Misiones and Ñeembucú.

Table 3-2: MAIN AGRICULTURE PRODUCTS, BY DEPARTMENTS




                                                                                                                                 47
             ITAPUA                    MISIONES                ÑEEMBUCU
      Product           Ha         Product        Ha        Product       Ha
     Soybean           480,721   Soybean          22,588   Maice          2,634
     Wheat             106,160   Rice             11,570   Hybrid maice   1,698
     Hybrid maice       73,215   Wheat             9,686   Mandioca       1,690
     Mandioca           19,555   Hybrid maice      7,222   Cotton         1,600
     Rice               14,186   Maice             5,132   Sugar Cane     1,160
     Cotton              9,768   Mandioca          4,050   Beans            907
     Maice               9,474   Sugar Cane        2,848   Peanuts          303
     Poroto              5,480   Cotton            2,455   Watermelon       132
     Sugar Cane          2,808   Beans             1,825   Sesame            29
     Sesame              1,831   Peanuts             275
     Peanuts             1,064   Watermelon          206
     Watermelon            572   Sesame               47
     Stevia                 43
Source: CAN 2008, Preliminary Results
3.9 The Table 3.2 shows the significant differences between the productive structures of the three
Departments. Itapúa presents a competitive productive sector, with abundant fertile soils and
mechanized agriculture oriented to exports, being the most important producer of wheat and the
second of soybean in the country. On the other hand, the agriculture in Misiones is more oriented
to food security and internal markets, while, in Ñeembucú, it is the most insignificant among the
14 Departments of the Eastern Region.

3.10 Due to the facts presented above, since 2003, Paraguay has benefited from a good economic
environment that allowed moderate inflation rates during the project life. The rate of exchange of
the Paraguayan Guarani is determined in the open market and given low trade restrictions,
domestic prices tend to correspond quite close to border economic values. Similarly, Guarani
exchange rate versus US Dollars registered a significant devaluation during 2002, reflecting the
effects of the regional economic and financial crisis, especially in Argentina. However, since
2003, the nominal exchange rate reversed the negative trend observed during the first years of the
new century, registering important appreciations in 2003 and again in 2006-2007.

PRODECO's Economic costs, benefits and results
3.11 Principal Economic Findings from the 2007 Independent Impact Analysis7: Establishing
that the study was conducted in an early stage to judge potential impacts, the main findings of the
Study presented in July 2007 are summarized as follows:
              a. There was evidence of positive impacts, but sustainability depends on further
                 advances in the project;

                      b. Quantitative data showed impact in the economic live, the level of beneficiaries´
                         investments, in education rates, and other stakeholders, and to some extent on
                         social capital. Qualitative data confirmed these results;

                      c. Both analyses (quantitative and qualitative) found important social impacts. The
                         sub-projects brought hope to some of the most marginalized families of
                         Paraguay. Interviews with beneficiaries showed a deep change in attitudes
                         about future, confidence in individuals and groups to promote positive changes
                         in their economic political and social lives; and

                      d. PRODECO´s success was still fragile, and the majority of sub-projects were not
                         in a condition of self-sufficiency.


7
    Estudio Preliminar de Potenciales Impactos de los Subproyectos. Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo
      Comunitario, Jeffrey Alwang, 2007.


                                                                                                       48
The study's main economic recommendations included: (a) additional efforts be made to assist
producers in taking advantage of economic scales; (b) better coordination with local governments
to ensure sustainability of technical assistance for sub-projects; and (c) improved technical
assistance on commercialization of products, for example, by promoting private sector
participation.

3.12 The impact analysis, using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methodologies
found positive impacts deriving from the implementation of PRODECO. In brief, the study
found that, average expenditures in PRODECO's beneficiaries households, increased by 22 %
from the beginning until the study date. Expenditures in no-beneficiaries' households decreased
in the same period by 8 %. Additional analysis found that access to assets in beneficiaries'
households improved, especially in terms of the acquisition of domestic appliances such as
refrigerators, TV sets, laundry machines, cellular phones, among others. The study also found that
beneficiaries invested more in human capital, with some evidence of higher levels of school
attendances, compared to non-beneficiary households. There is a possibility of having local
impacts of PRODECO, referred to personal perceptions of the quality of live in the community
were the Project was active, but interpretation of the results are difficult considering the presence
of subjective elements. From a qualitative perspective, the study derived positive impacts at the
individual level among Project's beneficiaries. Some of the affirmative results are related to
improved economic relationship among beneficiaries, higher self-confidence, more collective
actions and enhanced perceptions about local government performance.

Principal Economic findings from the 2009 Economic and Financial Analysis
3.13 For illustrative purposes, the PAD (2002) selected nine productive sub-projects for the
economic and financial analysis, representing some of the most typical or innovative investment
initiatives that may be requested according to diagnostic studies carried out as part of project
preparation activities. Economic flows and benefit-cost ratios for all productive sub-projects
analyzed show that they were economically sound. The sub-projects modeled and analyzed were:
Handicrafts (Indigenous Peoples); Egg production; Poultry production; Apparel production
(Women); Eco-tourism (Youth); Irrigated Horticulture; Processing/marketing of fish fillets; Local
bakery (Women); and pig farming.

Table 3-3: Economic and Financial Analysis of potential sub-projects, 2002
Type of Activity      IRR (%)      NPV (US$)      Benefit /Cost ratio
Handicrafts              20             2,619           1.1
Egg production           29             6,619           2.1
Poultry production       34             19,773          2.1
Apparel Production       33             7,270           1.9
Eco-tourism              18             4,732           1.9
Irrigated horticulture   29             7,600           2.1
Processing/Marketing     30             15,063          2.3
of Fish Fillets
Local Bakery             31             6,911           2
Pig Farming              24             17,765          1.9
PAD, 2002.
Main assumptions: - Discount rate: 10 %; Time horizon: 10 years; Growth in real prices of
output: constant; - Real exchange rate: constant; Input prices: fourth quarter 2001 prices;
Output prices: real average 2000-01 prices.


                                                                                                  49
3.14 Taking into account the preliminary economic analysis conducted, a new economic analysis
was undertaken, based in the information provided by the monitoring and evaluation system
established for the Project. For that purpose, a group of 18 sub-projects were randomly for the
economic analysis. The sub-projects considered represented a wide range of categories among the
members of the Productive Committee (PC), including gender, location and type of activities. The
Table 3.3 describes the sub-projects selected, which included 9 PCs compound by mixed genders,
5 women-only members, 2 indigenous communities, 1 men-only and 1 young-only members. 13
projects were developed in rural areas and 5 in urban areas. 12 sub-projects were implemented in
Itapúa and 3 in Misiones and Ñeembucú. Also 7 types of sub-projects were selected among the
most representative sectors: apiculture, bakery, medicinal herbs, piglet's production, horticulture,
apparel production, and aviculture. These types of sub-projects represent 63 % of the 495
economic sub-projects financed by PRODECO.

Table 3-4: Sub-projects selected for Economic Analysis, characteristics (First Set, 2009)
       SP Nr   Beneficiaries      Rural/Urban   Department     District              Sector
   1      2    Indigenous Comm.   Rural         Itapua         San Cosme y Damian    Apiculture
   2     45    Mixed              Rural         Ñeembucu       Pilar                 Apiculture
   3     70    Women              Urban         Itapua         Natalio               Bakery
   4     93    Men                Rural         Itapua         Trinidad              Medicinal Herbs
   5    172    Mixed              Rural         Ñeembucu       Mayor Martinez        Apiculture
   6    128    Women              Rural         Misiones       Santa Rosa            Piglets Production
   7    198    Mixed              Rural         Itapua         C.A.Lopez             Piglets Production
   8      3    Women              Urban         Itapua         San Juan del Parana   Bakery
   9    169    Mixed              Urban         Itapua         Yatytay               Bakery
  10     84    Indigenous Comm.   Rural         Itapua         Cptan Miranda         Horticulture
  11    185    Mixed              Rural         Misiones       Santa Maria           Horticulture
  12     66    Women              Urban         Itapua         Mayor Otaño           Apparel production
  13     83    Mixed              Urban         Ñeembucu       Pilar                 Apparel production
  14     96    Mixed              Rural         Itapua         Capitan Meza          Aviculture
  15    190    Women              Rural         Misiones       San Juan Bautista     Aviculture
  16     94    Young people       Rural         Itapua         Trinidad              Medicinal Herbs
  17    168    Mixed              Rural         Itapua         Fram                  Medicinal Herbs
  18    131    Mixed              Rural         Itapua         Encarnacion           Piglets Production


3.15 The preliminary results from the economic analysis showed that the expected Economic
Rate of Return for all the selected projects was positive, ranging from 10 to 87 %. Moreover, all
18 sub-projects presented positive net present values, averaging the equivalent of US$14.857 per
sub-project considered.




Table 3-5: Sub-project Economic Analysis ­ First Set (2009)




                                                                                                 50
         SP Nr    Sector                        ERR (%)            NPV (Guaranies)
   1       2      Apiculture                         15.8%             8,882,919
   2       45     Apiculture                         12.5%             3,443,676
   3       70     Bakery                             86.8%           315,391,695
   4       93     Medicinal Herbs                    54.3%           174,168,095
   5      172     Apiculture                         10.2%               300,148
   6      128     Piglets Production                 25.5%            25,680,313
   7      198     Piglets Production                 51.4%            75,251,903
   8       3      Bakery                             31.8%            44,775,006
   9      169     Bakery                             41.0%            68,729,212
  10       84     Horticulture                       74.3%           297,092,319
  11      185     Horticulture                       11.6%             3,241,337
  12       66     Apparel production                 25.4%            32,419,659
  13       83     Apparel production                 11.0%             1,549,020
  14       96     Aviculture                         17.2%            12,130,685
  15      190     Aviculture                         19.8%            15,955,432
  16       94     Medicinal Herbs                    58.4%           137,268,594
  17      168     Medicinal Herbs                    27.3%            36,714,673
  18      131     Piglets Production                 34.9%            84,140,596

                  Average                               33.9%          74,285,293
                   US$ Equivalent                                          14,857
                  Max                                   86.8%         315,391,695
                  Min                                   10.2%             300,148
Main assumptions: - Discount rate: 10 %; Time horizon: 5- 7 years; Growth in real prices of
output: constant; - Real exchange rate: constant; - Input prices and output prices: those
prevalent at the moment of sub- projects appraisal (from 2004 to 2006)

3.16 Considering that the previous results may be overrated by the exceptionally high ERR for
some of the projects; for a second round of analysis, those with ERR surpassing 50 % were
excluded. The results from the 13 sub-projects show that the ERR averages 22 %, with positive
NPV for all the sub-projects with an average value equivalent to US$5,200.

Table 3-6: Sub-project Economic Analysis ­ First Set (2009)
          SP Nr             Sector                       ERR                     NPV
    1       2       Apiculture                             15.8%                8,882,919
    2       45      Apiculture                             12.5%                3,443,676
    3      172      Apiculture                             10.2%                  300,148
    4      128      Piglets Production                     25.5%               25,680,313
    5       3       Bakery                                 31.8%               44,775,006
    6      169      Bakery                                 41.0%               68,729,212
    7      185      Horticulture                           11.6%                3,241,337
    8       66      Apparel production                     25.4%               32,419,659
    9       83      Apparel production                     11.0%                1,549,020
   10       96      Aviculture                             17.2%               12,130,685
   11      190      Aviculture                             19.8%               15,955,432
   12      168      Medicinal Herbs                        27.3%               36,714,673
   13      131      Piglets Production                     34.9%               84,140,596

                    Average                                   21.9%            25,997,129
                     US$ Equivalent                                                 5,199
                    Max                                       41.0%            84,140,596
                    Min                                       10.2%               300,148


3.17 Conclusion: External conditions, as wells as a sound performance of Paraguayan economy
between 2003 and the last quarter of 2008, created a favorable environment for the
implementation of the Sub-projects financed by PRODECO. However, the relatively small size of
the projects, the low level of competitiveness and especially the limited connection with
productive chains or clusters, reduced the capacity of the Sub-projects to take advantage of the
favorable internal and external economic environment prevailing since 2003. With regard to the
risks deriving from the pricing assumptions of the project, price contingencies were excluded and

                                                                                              51
base costs less taxes were used for the IERR. Among the prices taken into account were the
exchange rate and the inflation rate. The economic analysis found that the Project assumptions
related to price contingencies and rate of exchange for local currency were correct in the light of
its performance during the project implementation.

3.18 The economic analysis concluded that, considering that the amount invested in the 495 sub-
projects was approximately US$6.5 million and the average ERR was 22 %, the capital invested
by PRODECO would be fully recovered in 4.5 years. In addition, the positive externalities
described along this economic analysis, determine that the general economic, financial and social
impacts of the Pilot Project were substantially positive and established the basis for scaling-up
further community-driven type development projects in Paraguay.




                                                                                                52
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                             Title
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario     Sr. Social Scientist                TTL
Michael Carroll              Sr. Agriculturalist
Alvaro Soler                 Agriculture Economist, Consultant   Agricultural Economics
Enzo de Laurentis            Sr. Procurement Specialist          Procurement
Juan David Quintero          Lead Environment Specialist         Environment
Morag Van Paag               Sr. Disbursement Officer            Disbursement
Eduardo Brito                Sr. Counsel                         Legal
Grissel Prieto               Task Assistant                      Operations
Esme Abedin                  Operations Analyst                  Operations
Susana Cirigliano            Financial Management Specialist     Fin. Management
Reider Kvam                  Sr. Social Scientist                Peer Reviewer
Valeria Pena                 Lead Sociologist                    Peer Reviewer
Steven Schonberger           Sr. Operations Officer              Peer Reviewer
Samuel Morley                IFPRI                               Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario    Lead Social Scientist                LCSSO    TTL
 Maria Celina Anazco        Consultant                           LCSFM    Fin. Man
 Daniel Jorge Arguindegui   E T Consultant                       LCSPT    Procurement
 Natalia Cecilia Bavio      Financial Management Analyst         LCSFM    Fin. Management
                                                                          Financial
Antonio Leonardo Blasco Sr Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
                                                                          Management
Francis V. Fragano          E T Consultant                       LCSEN    Environment
Ruth Gonzalez               E T Consultant                       LCREA    Communications
Ana Maria Grofsmacht        Procurement Analyst                  LCSPT    Procurement
                                                                          Fiduciary and
Peter M. Hansen             Resident Representative              LCSFM
                                                                          negotiations
Andres Mac Gaul             Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT   Procurement
                                                                          Institutions and
Leonardo Andres Moreno Consultant, Institutional and Poverty
                                                                  LCSSO   Social
Nunez                  Specialist
                                                                          Development
                                                                          Fiduciary and
Pedro L. Rodriguez          Resident Representative               ECSPE
                                                                          negotiations
                                                                          Financial
Andres Solanot              Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
                                                                          Management
                                                                          Social
                            Consultant, Social Development
Rachel Nadelman                                                   LCSSO   Development, ICR
                            Specialist
                                                                          TTL and author
                            Rural Sociologist, FAO Cooperative            Rural Development,
Ida Christensen                                                  FAO/CP
                            Program                                       ICR author
                                                                          ICR Economic and
Victor Vazquez Aranda       Consultant, Economist                 LCSSO
                                                                          Financial Analysis

                                                                                          53
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                    12                          66.11
  FY01                                    13                          63.03
  FY02                                    20                         137.05
  FY03                                                                12.61
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00

                          Total:          45                         278.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.58
  FY03                                    15                          83.74
  FY04                                    13                         121.92
  FY05                                    14                          97.75
  FY06                                    16                         134.22
  FY07                                    16                         108.58
  FY08                                     9                          90.90

                          Total:          83                         637.69




                                                                                   54
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

5.1The evaluation of PRODECO was conducted during 2007 and involved a stakeholder survey
and qualitative assessment of program impacts resulting from a team of four specialists who
interviewed members of 20 sub-projects (selected at random from the list of 96 projects in a state
of completion at the time of the study), representatives from three local and one Departmental
government, and representatives of NGOs. The quantitative analysis employed a random survey
of 283 participants and 151 non-participants, conducted in March-April 2007. The questionnaire
for the survey contained 11 modules and covered household demographics, housing and assets,
education, labor force participation and work, income, agriculture, expenditures, and other
transactions. It also contained modules on perceptions about the community, participation in
local affairs and strength of social capital and social networks. Household well-being outcomes
were measured in terms of consumption expenditures per capita which were measured using
recall methods and accepted survey practices. The interviews were open-ended but followed a
formal guide and coverage was good; in the beneficiary interviews, a representative from at least
three participating households was present.

5.2 Table 5.1 shows summary statistics from the survey, broken down by participating and non-
participating households. Beneficiary households were better off in economic terms, more likely
to be male-headed and more likely to be from Itapúa (which is the least poor Department of the
three). They also seemed to be better off in terms of their participation in education, some
measures of social conditions, and in terms of empowerment (participation in groups with
democratic decisions, sense that they have influence in their communities). The key question that
the remainder of the paper addressed were, (i) were these differences due to PRODECO? Or,
were they only the result of the targeting of the project? Better-off households might have been
selected to participate.

Results
5.3 Results from this parametric specification are shown in two forms (table 5-2). The first series
of columns shows a standard OLS regression of log real consumption expenditure per person on
the X variables and participation in PRODECO (the specification in equation 1, ignoring the
endogenous nature of program participation). In this specification, variables have their expected
sign. Household size and dependency were negatively associated with well-being, while
agricultural equipment ownership was positively associated with it. Rural residents had a lower
level of well-being, holding other factors constant, and households in Itapúa and Misiones had
higher levels of well-being compared to residents of Ñeembucú (the deleted category). These
results were consistent with expectations, as Ñeembucú had the highest rate of poverty among the
three and economic opportunities in rural areas, particularly isolated rural areas (such as in
Ñeembucú), were extremely limited. PRODECO participation was positively but only
marginally statistically significantly associated with well-being. According to the OLS estimates,
participation in PRODECO was associated with a 10% increase in household well-being.

5.4 To account for potential endogenous participation, results from the treatment specification
were also shown in table 1 (second series of columns--the selection model results). Two
instruments were used to identify the effect of participation: ownership of a refrigerator and a
district-level variable representing the frequency of voting in the district. Since refrigerator
ownership was a criterion that eliminated people for consideration as a PRODECO participant, it
should have affected the participation "decision" while not having a measurable impact on
consumption expenditures, except through its impact on participation. These variables were tested
for appropriateness as instruments and their appropriateness could not be rejected.


                                                                                                55
5.5 Results show that most of the same variables were significant once one controlled for
endogenous program participation; some changes in magnitude emerged in the selectivity
correction. Dependency and household size were negatively associated with well-being, while
the number of low-valued equipment was associated with higher well-being. The rural sub-
projects were associated with about a 20 % lower level of per-capita expenditures, compared to
those in urban areas. Program participation was now strongly significant, and the test of
endogeneity of participation (chi-square with one degree of freedom=13.26) failed to reject
(p=.0003). When this endogenous participation was accounted for, the estimated impact of
participation fell from 10.4 to 6.4 %8 of consumption expenditures. This lower estimated impact
was strongly statistically significant, and the difference was due to targeting by the PRODECO
development agents. Basic literacy and some level of education were associated with higher
likelihoods of participation (Gobierno de Paraguay, 2006); the development agents who helped
form the groups may have selected participants with higher skill levels. Because it did not
control for these unobserved differences affecting both participation and the well-being outcome,
the OLS estimate of program impact was biased upwards. However, it is important to note that
controlling for endogeneity of participation also allowed more effectively measurement of the
impacts of participation and the resulting parameter was estimated with much higher precision (as
noted in the level of significance of the estimate).

5.6 The parametric specification lead to the conclusion that participation in PRODECO had a
statistically significant positive impact on household well-being as measured in economic terms.
Several criticisms emerged of such estimates, the most important being that they relied on strong
assumptions about the error distributions and on questionable exclusion restrictions to identify the
program effect. To check these findings, an alternative, less restrictive, matching technique was
used to obtain an alternate estimate of PRODECO impacts and verify the findings from the
qualitative analysis and the parametric specification. Households were matched based on their
propensity (to participate in PRODECO) score and differences in outcomes were compared while
controlling for the same sets of exogenous characteristics as in the parametric specification.
Results from the matching exercise showed that household expenditures per person were about
12% higher for participating households than they would have been if the same household did not
participate (table 5-3). The difference is statistically significant, although there was far more
variability than the parametric results showed; the results were not exactly comparable because
the matching methods required the trimming of observations outside the common support.
However, there was no significant evidence of enhancements in economic well-being associated
with participation. Better economic well-being of participants was also reflected in the lower
number of household members who were openly unemployed9.

5.7 The matching techniques also allowed us to compare other outcomes while conditioning on
the propensity to participate in the program. One of the hypothesized benefits of this CDD
program was that, by providing economic space to households, they would feel less compelled to
remove their children from school, and results did support this hypothesis. Participating
households had significantly better indicators of participation of their children in education (a
14% higher enrollment rate with fewer age-eligible children withdrawn from school), controlling
for other factors. The difference in number of children withdrawn for economic reasons was not
statistically significant for participants and non-participants when these groups were matched

8
  The 10.4 % is the regression coefficient in the OLS model; the 6.4 % is calculated using equation 4 and
the results from the treatment effects regression in table 2.

9
    That is, age-eligible for employment, not employed, but seeking employment.


                                                                                                            56
based on other characteristics. When compared to the unconditional distributions of withdrawal
for economic reasons (table 5-1), this showed that the program itself was not associated with
fewer withdrawals for economic reasons, rather beneficiary families were themselves less likely
to withdraw their children from school. They likely had other means of coping with economic
shocks or were more appreciative of the value of good education than were non-participating
families. This was consistent with the program selection criteria.

5.8 The most important change in social networks and empowerment were shown as differences
in perceptions about trustworthiness of neighbors and the sense of influence over community
affairs. Voting behavior did not differ by participation status, neither did participation in politics,
but participants in PRODECO were statistically more likely to say that their neighbors were
trustworthy, and much more likely to say that the household had influence over local affairs
compared to non-participants. Participants were also likely to participate in more groups where
they had a sense that decisions were democratic, which was consistent with their increased sense
of influence over local affairs.

Table 5-1: Summary statistics, PRODECO survey, by beneficiary status
                                          Non-beneficiaries Beneficiaries                       P-valueb
Variable                                  Mean    Std. Dev. Mean      Std. Dev.
Per-capita expenditures (Gs/month)        82578   77744     95267     82889                     0.057
Male-headed            household(dummy 0.70       0.46      0.80      0.40                      0.010
variable)
Age household head                        49.89   79.08     41.94     12.31                     0.222
Age-squared                               8701.61 81056.96 1909.70 1141.03                      0.305
Dependency (children and elderly 0.32             0.22      0.32      0.23                      0.932
divided by household size)
Household size                            5.19    2.53      4.95      2.02                      0.305
Low-valued equipment (number of low- 1.09         1.63      1.75      1.62                      0.000
valued productive equipment owned)
Medium-valued equipment                   0.02    0.14      0.12      0.33                      0.000
High-valued equipment                     0.17    0.57      0.28      0.59                      0.062
Refrigerator (dummy variable)             0.05    0.21      0.20      0.40                      0.000
Itapúa (dummy variable)                   0.34    0.47      0.46      0.50                      0.014
Misiones (dummy variable)                 0.33    0.47      0.26      0.44                      0.107
Rural (dummy variable)                    0.60    0.49      0.75      0.43                      0.001
Voting frequency (district level average) 0.84    0.18      0.84      0.21                      0.983
Household-level outcome variables
Percent age-eligible children in school   0.51    0.44      0.72      0.40                      0.000
Number age-eligible withdrawn from 1.03           1.51      0.49      0.91                      0.000
school
Number withdrawn for economic 0.41                0.87      0.24      0.67                      0.042
reasons
Number of open unemployed                 0.17    0.55      0.03      0.19                      0.003
Number under employed                     0.05    0.31      0.00      0.06                      0.098
Voted in last election?                   0.83    0.37      0.84      0.37                      0.934
Household needed help in past year        0.28    0.45      0.19      0.39                      0.020
People in barrio are trustworthy          0.96    0.20      1.00      0.06                      0.004
Household has influence over local 0.28           0.45      0.64      0.48                      0.000
affairs

                                                                                                    57
Household participates in politics               0.38       0.49       0.44       0.50      0.247
Number of groups in which household is 0.59                 0.98       1.02       0.55      0.000
member where decisions are democratic
a
  N=434; b Results of two-tailed t-test or test of proportion, where appropriate.

Table 5-2: Regression results, PRODECO impacts on well-being
                                 OLS Regression            Structural Model

Variable                           Coef.      Std. Err.    P>t       Coef.      Std. Err.   P>t

Intercept                          11.7175    0.1633       0         11.7952    0.1795      0
Male-headed                        0.0124     0.0722       0.863     -0.0334    0.0830      0.688
Age head                           -0.0018    0.0026       0.491     -0.0008    0.0027      0.769
Age 2                              0.0000     0.0000       0.501     0.0000     0.0000      0.659
Dependency                         -0.2618    0.1461       0.074     -0.2731    0.1575      0.083
Household size                     -0.1453    0.0145       0         -0.1400    0.0153      0
Low-valued equipment               0.0789     0.0225       0         0.0767     0.0228      0.001
Medium-valued equipment            0.2031     0.1179       0.086     0.1079     0.1129      0.339
High-valued equipment              -0.0859    0.0553       0.121     -0.0880    0.0516      0.088

Itapúa                          0.3721        0.0783       0         0.0289     0.0877      0.741
Misiones                        0.3319        0.0893       0         -0.3202    0.1052      0.002
Rural                           -0.1557       0.0743       0.037     -0.2053    0.0764      0.007
Beneficiary                     0.1035        0.0659       0.117     0.5166     0.1211      0
Determinants of beneficiary status
Intercept                                                            -1.8333    0.7137      0.01
Male-headed                                                          0.3127     0.1546      0.043
Age head                                                             0.0643     0.0276      0.02
Age squared                                                          -0.0008    0.0003      0.007
Dependency                                                           0.3715     0.3296      0.26
Household size                                                       -0.0618    0.0339      0.068
Medium-valued equipment                                              0.7790     0.3763      0.038
High-valued equipment                                                -0.1340    0.1115      0.229
Refrigerator                                                         0.9958     0.2256      0
Voting likelihood                                                    0.6890     0.3740      0.065
Itapúa                                                               0.1392     0.1955      0.476
Ñeembucú                                                             -0.0707    0.1709      0.679
Rural                                                                0.3642     0.1492      0.015
/athrho                                                              -0.4397    0.1207      0
/lnsigma                                                             -0.4478    0.0457      0
N                                  431
R2                                 268


                                                                                                  58
Table 5-3: Matching results: Comparison of treatment effects on various outcomes
                                                                               Att    p-value
Expenditures per person                                                        .119   .062
Percent age-eligible children in school                                        .136   .011
Number age-eligible withdrawn from school                                   -.441     .007
Number withdrawn for economic reasons                                       -.160     .156
Number of open unemployed                                                   -.127     .005
Number under employed                                                       -.029     .240
Voted in last election?                                                     .030      .618
Household needed help in past year                                          -.078     .174
People in barrio are trustworthy                                            .017      .072
Household has influence over local affairs                                  .316      .000
Household participates in politics                                          -.002     .974
Number of groups in which household is member with democratic decisions .436          .000




                                                                                       59
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

6.1 To seek direct stakeholder feedback, as part of the process of closing PRODECO, in
November 2008 the PCU organized stakeholder workshops in each of the three participating
departments of Misiones, Itapúa and Ñeembucú (5 total) and included members of the productive
committees, the LCs, DCs, and Technical Assistants. A Bank supervision team, which included
the ICR authors, attended each event. The workshops were designed so that the PCU/Bank team
could have the opportunity to have comfortable, open dialogues with participants from the
different stakeholder populations. The Departmental field workshops were:
    · Itapúa: (A) PCs and (B) TAs;

    ·   Ñeembucú: (A) LCs/DCs and (B) TAs;

    ·   Misiones: 1 combined meeting with PC and LC members.

6.2 Each meeting was conducted in both Spanish and Guarani. The Minister of Social Action
joined the final workshop in Misiones and therefore had the chance to directly talk with project
participants.
The 5 workshops were organized as follows:
    · Presentation about final project results by PCU members;

    ·   Focus group work in which the participants separated into smaller clusters to discuss the
        guiding questions provided by the PCU on the following subjects ­ a) effectiveness of
        project procedures, b) results obtained and c) lessons learned

    ·   Plenary discussion, questions and conclusions.

6.3 A standard question sheet was distributed to all participants at each meeting, and for those
groups where literacy levels were lower, community members with higher scholastic skills
assisted others. The questions included:
Project Procedures:
             1. Was the eligibility criteria used to select potential beneficiaries for the Sub-
                 projects fair? Justify the answer chosen
             2. Were the contributions of the technical assistants during the process of sub-
                 project implementation positive or negative? Justify.
             3. Has your Project or community collaborated with other private or public
                 institutions? If the answer is yes, please say which.

Results obtained
           1. What are the sub-projects that were undertaken that are likely to continue
               operating in the long run?
           2. What has changed in terms of quality of life for beneficiaries following the
               implementation of SPs?
           3. What has changed in communities following implementation of SPs?

Lessons Learned
          1. What were the three most significant problems that hindered Project
              achievement?
          2. What were the three most important factors that enabled SP success?
          3. If this experience were to begin again, what should be done differently?
                                                                                              60
            4. What are the most important lessons that can be derived from the project
               activities? ¿
            5. How could relationships between beneficiaries, local government and central
               government be improved?
            6. How could the technical assistance be improved?
            7. How can the SP operations be sustained over the long run?

6.4 While the there were important differences in the feedback from the three departments as well
as the distinct participating stakeholder groups, there were several main lessons that could be
highlighted as points of consensus:
    (a) Quality of Life: Participants experienced positive changes in their quality of life
    including: generation of employment and earnings, acquisition of new administrative,
    commercial and technical skills, and increased confidence and self esteem.
    (b) Eligibility Criteria: Although the criteria were created to focus on families in extreme
    poverty, participants from across the different stakeholder groups asserted that these were too
    strict and often excluded community leaders among others and as a result the groups suffered
    from inadequate human capital among the participants, which hindered productive success.
    (c) Technical assistance: The quality of technical assistance was disparate and in many cases
    there was a low availability of local qualified TAs. The outsourcing of technical assistance
    was perceived as a significant problem and hindrance to the continuity and quality of the
    services provided.
    (d) Project Unit Support: The vast majority of participants in the three workshops praised
    the assistance they received from PCU and the Local Development Agents, crediting their
    interventions with having a central role in their sub-projects' economic successes.
    (e) Collaboration with local authorities: The majority of participants, including the few
    local decision-makers who attended, asserted that local authorities' involvement was critical
    to sub-project success and sustainability. Conversely, the lack of such ongoing interest and
    attention was to blame for sub-project challenges.
    (f) Transparency and participation: The majority of participants recognized that
    PRODECO's processes from initiation to completion were transparent, which greatly
    contributed to the empowerment of the groups.




                                                                                                61
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Official translation from Spanish.


Executive Summary: Borrower Completion Report



                             PROJECT SUMMARY TABLE




PROJECT NAME:                           IBRD Loan-71090
                                        Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo
                                        Comunitario (Pilot Community
                                        Development Project ­ PRODECO)

AMOUNT:                                 US$11,180,000

EXTERNAL CONTRIBUTION:                  US$9,000,000

LOCAL CONTRIBUTION:                     US$2,180,000

STARTING DATE:                          March 4, 2002

CLOSING DATE:                           December 31, 2008

AGENCIES RESPONSIBLE:                   Secretaría de Acción Social ­ SAS




                                                                            62
    Background

1. The Community Development Pilot Project (Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo Comunitario
   [PRODECO]) was carried out between 2003 and 2008 by the National Government through the
   Secretariat of Social Action (Secretaría de Acción Social [SAS]) of the Office of the President of
   the Republic, with World Bank financing. It was implemented under the framework of the
   National Strategy to Combat Poverty, with joint efforts undertaken with other agencies such as
   local governments, and sought to improve the quality of life and the social inclusion of the
   poorest, most vulnerable communities of the Departments of Itapúa, Misiones and Ñeembucú.

2. Resources were provided by the World Bank under Loan Agreement N° 7109-PA signed by the
   Government of the Republic of Paraguay and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development (IBRD) in May 2002 and approved by Law N° 2089/03 enacted by the Executive
   Authority on March 31, 2003 with the prior authorization of the National Congress.
   PRODECO's total budget was US$11,180,000, of which US$9,000,000 were from the World
   Bank loan, US$1,150,000 were a direct contribution of the National Government, and
   US$1,030,000 were from the the contribution of beneficiaries in productive sub-projects.

3. The project's objective was to promote social inclusion, the participation of local stakeholders,
   and institutional decentralization with the aim of improving the quality of life of the urban and
   rural population living in extreme poverty, with a positive bias toward youth, women and
   indigenous peoples, through the development of productive sub-projects for income generation

    Thus, the project included three components:
    1- Component 1: Productive sub-projects for community development.

    2- Component 2: Institutional development and capacity building .

    3- Component 3: Support services.

4. In May 2003, Loan PAR 02/011 was signed with the United Nations Development Program
   (UNDP) as administrator of project resources, in order to make the project more transparent. The
   project's goal was to create 525 productive sub-projects in the 56 districts of the three
   Departments in which PRODECO operated. The following sub-projects were achieved: 239
   approved in Itapúa, 113 in Misiones and 143 in Ñeembucú; 5 were not financed. There was a
   total of 510 sub-projects, consisting of 495 productive sub-projects and 15 Municipal Initiatives.
   Of the 510 sub-projects financed, 84 were comprised of women, 28 were for indigenous
   communities, and 23 were youth committees.

5. As of the date of this report, all 510 are now closed. Sub-projects were closed with the following
   status: 311 have met the project's administrative and technical requirements, the remaining 184
   had matters pending compliance (such as the submission of three budgets, price comparison,
   training rosters, and other supporting documentation) which were submitted for follow-up to the
   SAS's Legal Advisory Office. Of these 184, 67 had balances to account for. With regard to the
   184 sub-projects with some type of technical and/or administrative difficulty, it is important to
   note that these include many sub-projects which are active and operating as of the date of this
   report, because in some cases the problems were related to technical assistance and not to
   Production Committees, while others experienced bureaucratic issues. In addition, of the 311 that
   closed with no problems, around 80% are in operation.




                                                                                                  63
6. A total of 703 sub-projects were submitted by the local decision-making bodies, Local
   Committees (LCs) and Departmental Committees, to the Central Project Unit (PCU) for
   financing. The population assisted amounted to about 5,106 families, representing 29,646 indirect
   beneficiaries. In addition to community income-generation sub-projects financed by Production
   Committees, 15 "Self-Sustainable Municipal Initiatives" were also financed on a very limited
   scale, on a pilot basis and on a demand basis.

7. The maximum amount of the IBRD contribution was US$5,000 per Municipal Initiative; each
   was to provide a counterpart contribution amounting to a minimum of 15% above the amount if
   the Initiative was not included in the amount of the IBRD contribution. Municipal Initiatives were
   formulated by independent ATs, and thus the monitoring of implementation was the
   responsibility of the municipalities.

8. 73% of the Municipal Initiatives were submitted and financed in the Department of Ñeembucú,
   with a focus on the establishment of community training centers. These have supported the
   municipality to provide a greater amount of training, especially in the categories of information
   technology and job skills. Agricultural product marketing centers have also been financed,
   favoring the neediest population. Three (3) Municipal Initiatives were financed in the Department
   of Misiones and one (1) in the Department of Itapúa, all under the category of agricultural and
   handicraft product marketing centers.

9. Because this was a "pilot" experience, the project was characterized by undergoing various
   evaluations, particularly the baseline studies conducted in early 2004; the midterm evaluation
   conducted in the second half of 2005; and the preliminary assessment of the potential impacts of
   sub-projects financed, conducted in the first half of 2007, which reflected impacts that suggested
   a favorable trend regarding the achievement of the project's results, including:
       ·   Greater focus on the formation of unorganized sectors into Local Development
           Committees (Comités de Desarrollo Local [CDL]).
       ·   Coordination of sub-projects in the three Departments that have extreme poverty and a
           low level of organization.
       ·   On average, beneficiary households increased their expenditures and level of well-being,
           and thus their income, by 22% during the course of the project. A significant increase in
           expenditures for food indicated improvements in the quality of life.10
       ·   Open unemployment among beneficiary families decreased significantly.
       ·   There was an improvement in the purchase and ownership of material goods and assets,
           which reflected an improvement in the quality of life of beneficiary families.
       ·   A decrease in school dropout rates among children of beneficiaries, and an increase of the
           %age of school-aged persons registered in the educational system.
       ·   In rural areas, family well-being was partially reflected by the number of animals present
           in the household. These assets could produce income and represented a potential for
           future income.

         A. Evaluation of project objectives, design and implementation

    Objectives
10. The objective of the Community Development Pilot Project (PRODECO) was to test a
    decentralized, participatory and grassroots approach for development as a means of improving the

    10
      Estudio Preliminar de Potenciales Impactos de los Subproyectos PRODECO [Preliminary Study of the
    Potential Impacts of PRODECO Sub-projects], Jeffrey Alwang, July 31, 2007


                                                                                                         64
    quality of life and social inclusion of poor, disadvantaged rural and urban communities in three
    Departments of southern Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones and Ñeembucú). To achieve this objective,
    the project would: i) finance small subsidies for demand-based income-generating sub-projects
    and community development sub-projects; ii) support institutional development activities to
    strengthen the capacity of local governments and community organizations to plan, design,
    implement and evaluate development projects; and iii) develop a transparent, participatory M&E
    system to make it possible to evaluate progress in implementation and to systemize and
    disseminate lessons learned.

    Design and Implementation
11. Paraguay has limited experience with large-scale poverty assistance programs. Most social
    programs are not well focused and the Government has recently shown a willingness to develop
    poverty reduction strategies that would guide future interventions focused on this issue. First and
    foremost, the design of these projects should include a proposed decentralization scheme in terms
    of the demand for providing technical and financial assistance to the poor. Second, the experience
    gained has shown the need for coherent, transparent and objective criteria for elegibility and
    targeting, in order to ensure that the funds reach beneficiaries, thus minimizing potential leaks or
    political manipulation of funds. Third, experience indicates that participation and social networks
    are crucial both for participatory monitoring and to ensure the start-up of a social capital
    development process in Productive Committees, which has a direct effect on the sustainability of
    sub-projects. The project was designed with the above assumptions. But even so, there were cases
    of sub-projects that did not function well due to weak organizational structure or simply because
    of desertion by members of Production Committees.

12. Due to delays in the loan's approval by the National Congress and in the necessary government
    counterpart resources for project execution, the project's implementation was delayed. This
    caused pressures from central and departmental levels during the first years of implementation,
    and therefore priority was given to the development of Component 1 in terms of sub-project
    financing, making it possible to achieve targets in the 56 districts of the project's target area. The
    intensity of Component 2's execution was affected by this fact; its aim was in fact to strengthen
    local capacities. This extremely important component prior to sub-project financing was only
    promoted more strongly starting from the middle of the project. Although good results were
    achieved, they would have been better if an orderly process of forming and training Production
    Committees had been in place from the start.

13. PRODECO was attentive to environmental management, not only in terms of compliance with
    legal requirements but because each project requested and obtained an environmental license in
    accordance with Paraguayan legislation. It is worthwhile to mention the institutional alliance with
    the Secretariat of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Secretariat for
    Women, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Paraguayan Indigenous Institute, and other
    institutions.

14. With regard to the monitoring and evaluation system, the preparation of the baseline is
    highlighted; this made it possible to know the initial socioeconomic status of project
    beneficiaries. PRODECO was one of the first projects in the country to utilize such a study. This
    was followed by the midterm evaluation, whose key focus was to make recommendations for
    balancing the implementation of Components 1 and 2, thereby improving the performance of the
    various sub-projects. Next was the preliminary assessment of potential impacts and the social
    monitoring system, which made it possible to identify, through the use of surveys, monitoring
    cards and participatory workshops, the level of transparency, participation and feelings of the
    different persons involved in the project.

                                                                                                       65
15. Although the UNDP was in charge of administering resources, it should be noted that operational
    work per se was conducted entirely in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). It should also be
    noted that during each year of the project, external audits were conducted by specialized firms
    that were authorized both by the UNDP and the World Bank. The PCU was composed of
    technicians with professional training and experience in work related to social development,
    selected through open, public processes. The PCU was always included in the SAS's
    organizational chart; however, its channel of communication was constantly changing because of
    changes in the SAS's administration.
        B. Evaluation of the project's effects
16. In accordance with its objectives, the project's achievements included:
    a) Of the 5,106 beneficiary families:
        · 2,200 families (43%) have women as heads of households;
        · 794 families (16%) have young men or young women as heads of households;
        · 351 families are from Communities of Original Peoples.

   b) Most successful sub-projects in Itapúa: medicinal herbs, honey, fish farming, horticulture,
      bread baking, recycling plant, swine breeding, sewing workshop, organic sugar. Urban sub-
      projects did not function well because of ack of adequate monitoring or non-installed capacity
      Investment made: US$3,419,175.

   c) Most successful sub-projects in Misiones: medicinal herbs for domestic use, bread-baking,
      honey, laundry, horticulture, fish farming. Most dairy farming (tambos) had unsatisfactory
      results, the categories of cleaning products and sewing workshop experienced difficulties,
      attributed especially to marketing limitations; the category of swine breeding and in general
      the categories of small-animal production constantly had to deal with the problem of
      obtaining animal feed from producers, due to persistent adverse climate conditions or the
      unavailability of sufficient lands for crops. Investment made: US$1,458,264.

   d) Most successful sub-projects in Ñeembucú: honey production, sewing workshops which
      were able to form cotton clusters with the company Manufactura Pilar, as well as a
      community garden. The dairy farm (tambo) and cheese categories did not have the desired
      impact. Investment made: US$1,590,265. (Figures updated as of June 2009).

17. In its pilot stage, PRODECO presented the following key points

   a. Project Design:

           i.   Due to its extreme poverty status, the target population had limited capacity to
                generate demand as indicated in the project objectives. However, the districts that
                received adequate support were able to benefit from the project. Nevertheless, the
                SAS tested the Geographic Prioritization Index as a focusing tool and is currently
                using it. Therefore, due to the Departments' disparity (for example, Itapúa has the
                highest coefficient of social inequality among municipalities, unlike others, and there
                are very different productive categories such as in Misiones and Ñeembucú which are
                primarily livestock categories), the IPG is considered a more effective tool for
                selecting beneficiaries and would be used in the second phase. Added to this, another
                criterion to be considered for the proportion of sub-projects in each Department is its
                population density.



                                                                                                    66
        ii. The SAS's institutional weakness, identified during the design of the project's pilot
            stage, should be addressed in the second phase with a a strong component for the
            Institutional Strengthening of the SUBUAF (Financial Administration Sub-unit
            [Sub-Unidad de Administración Financiera]) of the SAS in coordination with the
            UCP (Project Coordination Unit), aimed at consolidating the institution's
            administrative and financial capacity to ensure efficient, effective project
            administration.

        iii. Decentralization: A major value of the benefits of decentralization is in the PAD/2002
             as an example of lessons learned (Brazil). In Paraguay, the responsibility for the social
             validation of beneficiaries and the type of sub-projects to be financed locally and their
             monitoring was delegated to agencies composed of representatives of Gobernaciones
             (departmental-level government), municipalities, organized civil society, and other
             institutions recognized in the community. However, their participation and
             involvement were unequal. An example is that the districts whose sub-projects have
             the most sustainability are those with greater participation by citizens and local
             authorities. In all cases, the contribution of the Gobernaciones to the project was
             minimal. These were critical, observable points in the Public Hearings held by the
             project during its completion phase.

b. Eligibility criteria of sub-projects:

        i. Besides meeting technical requirements, sub-projects must be associated with district-
           level development plans to ensure the sustainability of sub-projects and the
           commitment of local authorities. As a result, due to the limited nature of specific local
           technical experience, fewer youth and urban sub-projects were financed. This
           requirement also caused a slow generation of demand for sub-projects, but this
           intensified in 2006 when information was disseminated that the project was reaching
           its conclusion at the end of that year, and thus the target stated in the project was
           reached.

        ii. The participation of private firms or local industries is essential for the time de la sub-
            project identification.

        iii. The eligibility criteria for beneficiaries, Production Committees and sub-projects were
             modified several times during project execution to adjust them to the unique
             conditions of each zone. These criteria must be revised for a new phase.

   c. Sustainability of Sub-projects

       i. The sub-projects that were able to establish market links and have greater income
          rotation showed greater sustainability than others that did not have these links. Other
          sub-projects that had the support of local authorities and were related to the zone's
          industries and private companies managed to be sustainable. Agricultural categories of
          greater complexity due to the discipline required or the technology used, experienced
          greater difficulties.

       ii. A determining factor of sub-project sustainability deals with the mediation between
           supply and demand and the placement of products in the market, which may be
           considered for the second phase of the project.

       iii. The 2002 PAD indicates "the need to provide technical assistance to groups of
            beneficiaries in order to help them to organize, developing the technical skills required

                                                                                                    67
            for the sub-project, and to strengthen their organizational and administrative skills.
            The assistance provided would encompass a series of technical, organizational and
            managerial issues that would increase the sub-projects' sustainability." The
            contribution of technical assistance to sub-projects was very limited and in some cases
            detrimental. This resulted mainly from with limited local technical expertise and the
            modality of contracting technicians.

       iv. The integration of social networks constitutes a key factor for the sustainability of sub-
           projects and the process of building "social capital."

d. Context variables (those that the project has no power to influence)

       i. There were context factors that negatively influenced the project, including: 3
          Presidents during the project period; 5 Ministers/Secretaries during the same period;
          and at least 4 Project Coordinators. All of these affect efficiency/effectiveness and
          implementation over time.

       ii. As a consequence of the above, ongoing political and local pressures are added to those
           to which the project was exposed.

e. Sub-project Supervision

       i.    A key factor is that the Project Coordination Unit lacked an Exclusive M&E Unit that
             could regularly report on field performance; such a unit should be considered for the
             second phase in order to ensure monitoring and evaluation in all sub-project stages, as
             well as in the development of the project's other components.

       ii. The assignment of multiple operational activities to Community Development Agents
           worked to the detriment of sub-project monitoring and evaluation efforts per se.
           Considering the volume of sub-projects, the level of supervision was affected.

f.   Project Impacts

        i. The project had a 20% impact on the population living in extreme poverty in the three
           Departments (Itapúa, Misiones and Ñeembucú). This represents assistance to 29,646
           persons who are vulnerable and socially excluded. It is worth noting that the project
           has benefited segments of the population that had never received any assistance due to
           their extreme poverty status, such as Villa Franca, Villa Oliva, Alto Verá, and José
           Leandro Oviedo, among others.

        ii. Some indigenous communities grew in terms of the number of families following
            PRODECO's intervention; they migrated from other zones seeking food security,
            which they found in communities where the project had a presence. Thus, 28
            agricultural diversification sub-projects were financed for indigenous communities in
            various districts of the Department of Itapúa. These sub-projects enabled the
            production of self-sufficiency categories for food security and as well as income
            categories. This demonstrates that, with good technical guidance, indigenous
            communities can learn to produce, diversify production and achieve self-sufficiency in
            terms of food supply.

g. Project Weaknesses



                                                                                                  68
           a. Market Study: there was no complete study of each zone's potential categories in
              order to define the type of sub-project to be financed. This would be highly favorable.

           b. Access to Markets: the project should have promoted alliances with the private sector
              so that production volume could meet local demands, as well as marketing strategies
              to accompany them.

           c. The positive bias was not satisfactory with respect to women and youth. A study of the
              youth population is needed.

           d. Low number of municipal sub-projects.

           e. The project did not foresee a subsidy for families living in extreme poverty during the
              period between the launch of the sub-project's operations and the generation of
              income.

18. Summary of Lessons Learned
         Establish synergies (multiplying effect) among various public, private and civil society
           agencies for the preparation of district- and department-level development plants,
           thereby achieving a systemic effect.

          Emphasize the need to simplify processes of working with sub-projects in a flexible
             manner and with technical and financial security in order to achieve objectives.

          Production Committees need a minimum period of organizational strengthening to
             ensure unity during sub-project implementation.

          Prepare Work Plans with the participation of political and community leaders in the
             sub-project's target area.

          Include marketing factors through third-party intermediation and training of producers,
             and link production to make it attractive to consumer sectors.

          Local Development Committees (Comités de Desarrollo Local [CDL]) need greater
             strengthening as liaisons between local authorities and civil society. This model showed
             that decentralization in decision-making creates opportunities for greater involvement
             by local authorities and civil society in general.

          One of the project's deficiencies was the inability of Production Committees to form an
             organization for productive purposes; this indicates the need for sub-projects to develop
             organizational skills and social networks that favor group unity, including the principal
             characteristic to keep them together: mutual "trust," which will translate into the benefit
             of better labor coexistence.

          Promote a training program to improve income, strengthen the functioning of groups
             such as cooperatives and associations, and improve access to the job market, especially
             for excluded groups such as poor women; among others.

          The role of Local Government needs to be strengthened.
19. An evaluation of the Borrower's performance: PRODECO was implemented with resources from
    World Bank Loan N° 7109-PA signed by the Government of the Republic of Paraguay and the

                                                                                                     69
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), approved by Law N° 2089/03
    enacted by the Executive Authority on March 31, 2003 with the prior approval of the National
    Congress.

20. At the time of the project's launch, the Government was not prompt in terms of providing the
    allocated budget resources. The project began in March 2003 and the national counterpart funds
    corresponding to 2003 were only deposited in March 2004. This was a key issue because it
    implied a one-year delay in project implementation, and in fact is part of the reasons for the
    successive extensions of the project's closing date, initially set for December 2006, extended to
    2007 and then to 2008. Grace periods were later granted, one of them from January to April 30,
    2009 and the latest one to June 30, 2009.

21. The project's human resources were characterized by their professionalism, dedication and
    conviction. The number of staff was always small; the UCP was composed of twenty-three (23)
    people: fifteen (15) of them were professionals with solid experience in development projects,
    and remaining eight (8) were also professionals, most of whom worked in the administrative
    support system, both in the central office and in the three (3) regional bureaus that were installed
    in the offices of the Gobernaciones in the case of Itapúa and Ñeembucú and in the School of
    Veterinary Sciences of the National University of Asunción with headquarters in Misiones,
    because the Gobernación's offices were under construction.

22. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank or other cofinancier: The World Bank participated in
    the project's financing and actively in its implementation; it was always managed by the same
    person who constantly had a team of consultants; these consultants were generally the same ones
    over the years and always responded in a timely and appropriate manner to the PCU's concerns or
    doubts. This favored mechanisms of dialogue and fluid analysis and facilitated project
    implementation.

23. It should be noted that the PCU had no experience in working with the World Bank. In this
    regard, management and consultants were constant facilitators in terms of proceeding with the
    project: the quality of supervision and support, timeliness and speed of response to questions, and
    especially the creation of room for the growth and development of members of the PCU.

24. However, it should be noted that contacts with the World Bank were not only with management
    but also with other Bank offices in Asunción, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and Washington.
    Although there were always good levels of communication and quick no-objections, the need to
    contact various offices on financial, administrative and procurement issues sometimes delayed
    work.

25. In the various supervision missions, an average of about four each year, the project had the
    support of technical consultants hired by FAO, who really contributed a great deal: Susana
    Aparicio in the preparation of the baseline, Ida Christensen in aspects of community participation,
    Hokön Nordan in the monitoring and statistical management of information, Miguel Huerta in
    environmental aspects.

26. As discussed above, another participating agency was the UNDP. In May 2003, a Cooperation
    Agreement was signed with UNDP to collaborate at no cost with project administration, although
    it began to charge for its services starting in 2006. Essentially, UNDP provided the project with
    the necessary infrastructure for transparent management of resources. As with the World Bank,
    one of the pillars of good performance is that the staff remained the same over time.


                                                                                                     70
27. CONCLUSIONS: SAS, IBRD, MH and the Project Coordination Unit is capitalizing on the
    lessons learned from the project pilot experience to promote a new phase that would have a
    greater effect on the poor and extremely poor populations of certain Departments. The Public
    Hearings on Project Completion that were held in the Departments of Itapúa, Misiones and
    Ñeembucú produced highly favorable as well as unfavorable experiences. With regard to
    beneficiaries, the most significant comment was that they have had opportunities for dialogue,
    employment and income generation, which have contributed to increasing their self-esteem and
    sense of positive self-worth.

28. Beneficiaries also expressed a longer period of assistance by the project as well as greater
    commitment by local authorities. The work of Local Committee members was voluntary and
    fundamental for the transparency of the sub-projects with which they were associated. This made
    it possible to avoid political interference in decision making. The project contributed to the
    formalization of numerous providers of goods and services in the three regions in which it
    operated, by requiring legal invoices as vouchers for accounting statements. With more
    preinvestment work, Production Committees should be strengthened; proactive efforts to identify
    categories of interest should be encouraged; Cooperation Agreements signed by the project and/or
    the SAS should be implemented and new Agreements should be signed in order to establish and
    strengthen ties of cooperation with agencies such as local universities, Pastoral Social and NGOs
    dedicated to social work in order to consolidate and provide comprehensive support to the
    project's beneficiary communities. Finally, the various programs conducted by the SAS should be
    coordinated so that they can also offer support to this project's beneficiaries in the target areas
    where these programs converge.




                                                                                                    71
29.




      72
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                                                    73
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report 23688-PA, March 4, 2002

Loan Agreement 7109-PA

Supervision Reports (PSR and ISR)

Supervision Aide Memoires

Audit Reports, FM and Procurement Reviews, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09

Borrower Supervision Progress Reports

Mid-Term Review, Leonardo Moreno (2005)

Preliminary Impact Study, Jeffery Alwang, Virginia Tech University (2007)

Final Report of the Implementation of Social Monitoring, Instituto Desarrollo (2007)

Borrower Completion Report, Secretary of Social Action (2009)

Final Economic and Financial Analysis, Victor Vazquez Aranda (2009)

Informe Propuesta técnica, Diseño de un sistema de Monitoreo social de 4 Proyectos del BIRF en
Paraguay, Alianza Pojoajú, 2003

Evaluación externa del PRODECO realizada por Guillermo Monroy Peralta, 2004

Informe de Consultoría de Apoyo a Microemprendimientos de Generación de Ingresos, Oscar
Carballo 2005

Informe de Evaluación y Recomendaciones, Centro de Información y Recursos para el desarrollo
(CIRD), 2005




                                                                                           74
75
