1
ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                        AWorld Froo of Poverty
1I foShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/21/2002                          25147
Section I - Basic Information                             November 21, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: NIGER                                Project ID: P074316
Project: FfNANCIAL SECTOR PROGRAM             Task Team Leader: Andre Ryba
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 25, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 18, 2003              IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Managing Unit: AFTFS                          Sector: Banking (70%); Postal services (10%);
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Non-compulsory pensions; insurance and contractual
Status: Lending                               savings (10%); Health insurance (10%)
Theme: Other financial and private sector
development (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring
and privatization (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The global objective of the project is to improve the efficiency, reach and depth of the Niger
financial system so that it can fulfill its important role of contributing to growth and poverty
reduction. Currently, the financial sector of Niger does not respond to the particular needs of the
population and economic operators. It does not provide a safe heaven for their savings nor the
financing they need. It does not cater to the needs of the small and medium sized firms, the rural
communities, or the informal sector. It is thus important to restore an efficient and dynamic
financial sector. Indeed, a healthy and developed financial sector is an important contributor to
economic growth and macrostability, through the provision of payment mechanisms, through
savings mobilization and the supply of financing instruments for consumption and investment.
In turn higher growth contributes to poverty reduction. In addition, an efficient financial sector
contributes directly to poverty alleviation. This is especially true of mechanisms of financial
intermediation of proximity (microfinance and postal financial services) that cater to the rural
world, small operators, and least favored groups of society offering instruments to mobilize their
limited resources and small financing to respond to needs related to education, health care, the
purchase of seeds or the sale of products on the village market. Through insurance companies
and the social security institution the financial sector offers protection against sickness, work
accidents as well as support to the young and the old.
Detailed objectives are:



2
ISDS
-     to improve mobilization of savings
-     to improve sources of financing to the economy
-     to improve access to financial services in urban and rural areas
-     to improve the depth of the financial sector by increasing the instruments available for
term and equity
financing and funding to small and medium size enterprises
-     to improve the functioning of the banking and insurance sectors
-     to restructure the postal savings and chequing bank
-     to improve the social security system, and
-     to improve capacity within ministries and within banks and insurance companies.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The objective of the project is to provide technical support to the Government financial sector
adjustment program as described in its report, in the letter of policy development attached to the
SAC and in the interim PRSP.
The project will have five components: (a) the strengthening of the environment within which
financial institutions operate; (b) the restructuring and development of specialized finance; (c)
the development of financial intermediation of proximity (dealing with microfinance and postal
financial services); (d) social security reform; and (e) capacity building
Strengthening of the environment
This will deal primarily with the settlement of Government arrears towards financial institutions
and the strengthening of the judiciary apparatus.
New BCEAO regulation requires that all Governments reimburse the statutory advances they
received from BCEAO by December 31 st 2001. To satisfy this requirement, the Government of
Niger proposes to issue Treasury Bills on the regional stock exchange (BRVM) with the intent of
levying funds domestically but also in other UEMOA countries. For commercial banks and
insurance companies, the arrears settlement package will include a combination of cash and debt
issue. The project will finance technical assistance in the design of these instruments.
On the judiciary, the project will finance a roundtable on justice and financial institutions, the
analysis of existing national legislation and the design of amendments to put it in conformity
with OHADA and a study on loan recovery, the enforcement of contracts and the taking of
guarantees..
Specialized finance
The housing bank and the local communities lending banks are both bankrupt. These two
government owned specialized banks have been placed under interim administration. The
administrator proposed in May 2001 a plan to clean up the balance sheets of these two
institutions and to merge them into a new institution whose capital would be gradually opened to
the private sector. The proposed plan was strongly criticized by the Bretton Woods institutions



3
ISDS
because: (a) the cleaning of the balance sheets was only partial; and (b) the proposed business
plan lacked credibility as it did not rest on an understanding of the problems facing the housing
industry and local communities finance and was not based on market research. (for instance,
there was no tentative to understand, why the private sector was not present in the conmnercial
mortgage market). As it happened, the proposed plan was rejected by the BCEAO who returned
it without even submitting to the banking commission for analysis and eventual non objection
Government has agreed to review the situation and to proceed with; (i) a complete clean-up of
the balance sheets of these two banks; and (ii) launch studies to develop a housing finance
strategy and a local communities finance strategy. [the housing finance study will distinguish
between housing on commercial terms, subsidized housing (e.g. for public servants) and social
housing for the very poor]. These studies will highlight the financial obstacles ( eg. absence of
mortgage market, difficulties in taking guarantees) to the construction of housing, as well as the
obstacles to the financing of local communities. They will define the most appropriate
instruments to finance housing development (by categories, i.e. commercial housing, subsidized
housing and social housing) and to finance local communities. The studies will indicate whether
the two existing institutions (CDN and CPCT) have a role to play, what it should be and how
these institutions should be reorganized. If there is no role for these institutions, they will be
liquidated. The project will fund the studies.
There is currently little term financing in the country and the project will finance a study of the
demand and supply of long term financing leading to concrete recommendations on how to
improve the situation. The project will also support a study of SME/SMI financing to determine
the obstacles to such financing. Finally, the project will fund an information and sensibilization
campaign on financial markets in general and more specifically on BRVM.
Financial intermediation of proximity
Microfinance institutions, the postal savings bank and the center of postal cheques bring financial
intermnediation to the neighborhoods in towns and cities and to rural areas. Through the
mobilization of small savings and the extension of small credits they are the forefront of the fight
against poverty.
The microfinance institutions are in a fragile state (as eloquently illustrated by the recent
difficulties experienced by Taimako which required emergency actions, including the
appointment of an interim administrator and the imposition of limits deposits withdrawals).
They have developed in an haphazard way without much coordination among donors and
sponsors. Under the aegis of IFAD, and with the participation of the World Bank, a strategy for
micro-finance development has been adopted by the authorities and a project has been put in
place. Despite these actions, there remains an urgent need to conduct audits of the main
microfinance institutions to ascertain their financial health and the risks they carry. The project
will fund these audits and some capacity building in coordination with the IFAD project.
Both the postal savings bank and the postal chequing center are bankrupt. The savings bank has
been inoperative since 1992 and deposits have remained frozen since. The chequing centers are
basically solely used to pay salaries, particularly in rural areas. The root causes of the problems



4
ISDS
can be found in poor management, Government interference, the lack of separation between
general post office operations and the operations of the savings bank and the chequing center
(e.g. the deposits collected by the savings bank being treated as general revenues of the post
office..etc...). The authorities have agreed to proceed with a global restructuring which calls for
the merger of the savings and chequing operations of the post office and the establishment of a
wholly owned subsidiary of the post office to run these financial services (thereafter called the
postal bank). The postal bank will be completely restructured with a new internal organization,
an opening balance sheet and accounting system distinct from that of the post office. All
deposits will be kept in the balance sheet. The Government will recapitalize the bank and in so
doing will rpovide the cash necessary for its adily operations. The shortfall in assets will be
filled by Government bonds.
The efficiency of the postal bank can only be as good as that of the post office whose facilities
(premises and personnel) it is using. It was thus agreed with the authorities that the post office
would be restructured at the same time as the financial services. The project will support the
restructuring of both, the post office and the postal bank, funding the consultants that will
provide technical assistance for the implementation of the restructuring, equipment (e.g.
computer, information ssytems and links), as well as training. A prerequisite to the restructuring
of the post office and the postal bank is an important downsizing of personnel. Government,
post office management and unions have agreed on the need to downsize. The project will cover
the payment of the legal rights of dismissed workers.
Social security reform.
Social security affords much needed protection to the workers (against work related accidents
and illnesses), to the young (through family allowances) and to the old (through the pension
system). CNSS which provides coverage to salaried workers is bankrupt and suffers from a
liquidity shortage; its reach is very limited, less than 10% of the population; and it does not offer
some products (such as health care).
The authorities recognize the urgency to reform the system of social protection within the country
as part of the fight against poverty. A tri-partite committee (bringing together, Government,
employers and employees) is already at work with a mandate to restructure CNSS. Its mandate
will be extended to include a broad review of social protection. (covering, inter alia, beneficiaries
and products)
The authorities have entered into an agreement with the ILO to conduct an actuarial study of
CNSS as a first step towards the restructuring of that institution. They have asked the Bank to
fund this study which will be done under the cover of this project. As was the case for the post
office, a prerequisite to reform is the downsizing of the personnel of CNSS. Here again there is
agreement on the matter between Government, management and unions. The project will finance
the legal rights of dismissed workers.
Capacity Building



5
ISDS
All studies of the financial system of Niger have underscored the capacity deficiencies at all
levels. The project will contribute to fund capacity building in commercial banks, insurance
companie, microfinance institutions, postal bank, as well as within the Ministry of Finance to
reinforce the department of money and credit which is responsible for the monitoring of banks
and supervision of micro-finance institutions and the division of insurance (responsible for the
monitoring and supervision of insurance companies). Consideration will also be given to provide
financing to the banking association and the insurance association as part of the capacity building
effort. The Minister of Finance has requested that an expatriate technical adviser in charge of
financial sector reform be posted in his office. The project will fund this resident adviser.
Components:
I. Re:form of environment
A.Settllement of arrears
B. Judiciary Reform - Roundtablc on Justice
-Placing national law in conformity with OHADA
-Study on guarantee taking and loan recovery
II. Specialized Finance
A.Housing and local finance strategy
B. Study on long term financing
C.Study on SME financing
D. Sensibilization campaign on stock exchange
III. Financial intermediation of proximity
A. Audits of micro finance institutions
B. Restructuring of Post Office (including financial ser-vices) and costs of lay-offs
IV. Social Security Reform (including compensation of laid-off staff).
V. Capacity building
VI. Administrative and Financial Unit
Audits
PPF Refinancing
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                              Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)j0 Yes 0 No                   C) TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                   CQYes *No     Q TBD_



6
ISDS
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                OYes * No      CQ TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  C Yes 0 No    C' TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    C} Yes *No    QJ TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       IC, Yes * No   0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                C0 Yes * No    Cr TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          C Yes * No    0 TBD
*By suipporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholders have been closely associated by the authorities and the Bank in the preparation of
the project. Unions have closely participated at the post office and CNPS in the design of the
partial lay-off plan. Bankers, microfinance operators, consumers have been associated to the
preparation of the project and the Government adjustment program. They will continue to be so.
In addition, a special sub-group dealing with financial sector issues has been set up the context of
the PRSP.
E. Safeguards Classif cation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
S I. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas



7
ISDS
S ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Andre Ryba                                  11/19/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                        11/19/2002
Sector Manager/Director:     Gerard Byam                                 11/19/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
:SEA'RC   H:'                                    "if 'fS IEj MAP'7' l  _ HCg.  CASE:'.. 



