Report No. PID11514
Project Name             NIGER-FINANCIAL SECTOR PROGRAM
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Banking (709); Postal services (109);
Non-compulsory pensions;
insurance and contractual savings (10%);
Health insurance (109)
Project ID               P074316
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF NIGER
Implementing Agency      FINANCE MINISTRY
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        November 13, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 25, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 18, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Although it is composed of a broad range of financial institutions (eight
commercial banks, four insurance companies, 167 micro-finance
institutions, postal financial services, a social security institution,
three stock brokers and a stock exchange), the financial sector of Niger
lacks depth.   M2/GDP fell from 20% in 1988 to 11% in 1998 and M1/GDP from
12.4% to 4.79. In fact, between 1988 and 1998, Ml declined by about 31%,
credits by more than 50% and deposits by 42%.    Contributing to this
decline is the delicate health of the financial sector, the result of ten
years of poor economic performance, the growing informalization of the
economy, the dysfunctioning of the judiciary system and the lack of
dynamism of the institutions themselves. (of course, the removal from
monetary statistics of frozen deposits in failed banks has been a
technical factor).
The banking sector which accounts for 61% of the total assets of the
sector (84% if the social security institution is excluded) is fragile and
highly concentrated. (The two largest banks account for two-thirds of
deposits and credits of the sector). It has a selected clientele, with a
concentrated credit portfolio; it has a limited penetration in the
country; it suffers from a large non-performing portfolio (in one case as
high as 84% of total credits) and an even higher portfolio at risk; with
a few exceptions, bank borrowers do not qualify for central bank
refinancing which is telling about the quality of loan portfolios; banks'
leverage is often low indicating that resources are not used to the
fullest extent in granting credit (generally because of a lack of bankable
demand for loans in an economy where the formal sector is small). As a
corollary, several banks have a high ratio of operating expenses to net
banking product. Banks offer mainly short term credits and these are
concentrated on the service and trade sectors, followed by mining.
Agriculture is conspicuously absent. Capacity is very low and bank
personnel at all levels is poorly trained and lacks knowledge of bank
operations



The development of micro finance institutions has been rather haphazard
depending on the support of donors which intervened without much
coordination. Financial cooperatives suffer from weak internal structures
and a lack of professional staff, their experience with loan recovery is
mixed, they are still far from attaining self-sustainability; and their
reach leaves much to be desired. The postal savings bank and the postal
chequing services, which could play an important role in a mostly rural
country, have limited activity (the postal savings bank has altogether
ceased operations).
The insurance sector is in dire straits. None of the companies meet all
prudential norms set up by CIMA, the regional regulator. The two largest
companies are in need of a substantial recapitalization. The third
appears on the way to better health thanks to internal restructuring
efforts. The more recent arrival suffers from poor management and a weak
financial position.
There are almost no operations on the Niamey antenna of the regional stock
exchange. In addition the antenna does little to familiarize the
population with the operations and possibilities offered by the stock
exchange.
Finally, the social security institution suffers from lack of autonomy
from the State, absence of separate management of branches, excessive
operating costs and structural deficits.
In such a context, the population of Niger does not benefit from the
quantity or quality of financial services it requires. The financial
sector of Niger does not respond to the particular needs of the population
and economic operators. It does not provide a safe heaven for their
savings nor the financing they need. It does not cater to the needs of
the small and medium sized firms, the rural communities, or the informal
sector. There is no magic wand that would instantaneously resolve all
these problems. The main avenue is to restore a healthy and competitive
financial sector evolving within a conducive environment.     This requires
a two-step approach: a phase of stabilization of the financial sector
accompanied by strengthening of the environment followed by a phase of
financial deepening. The Government has developed a financial sector
adjustment program on the basis of a well documented report (Programme
d'Ajustement du Secteur Financier Nigerien ") prepared by a special
committee created by an "arrote"   of September 4, 2000.   In parallel,
World Bank staff prepared a financial sector review (2000-2001) which was
also used as an input by the authorities in the establishment of their
strategy.
A first priority is the reform of the environment starting with a return
to macrostability without which financial sector reform cannot be
sustainable. An important aspect is the restoration of budgetary
equilibria and the restructuring of Government debt including the
securitization of debt and arrears. The settlement of debt towards BCEAO
involves the issuing of Government Treasury Bills on the regional stock
exchange. Settlement of Government arrears towards the banks and the
insurance companies would be in the form of a mixture of cash and
Government bonds. While, there is room for improvement, the regulatory
framework for banks, cooperatives, insurance companies and financial
-2 -



markets is satisfactory, to a large extent because the regulation and the
supervisory authorities are sub-regional. The Commission Bancaire and the
Conseil Regional de l'Epargne Publique et des Marches Financiers cover all
eight UEMOA countries; CIMA (for insurance) and CIPRES (for social
security) exercise their prerogative over the whole franc zone.
Nevertheless, on the banking side, regulation on the opening of branches
within the UEMOA zone should be amended to facilitate and encourage wider
cross-border diversification. Measures will be taken to improve the
functioning of the judiciary which currently does not provide adequate
support to contract enforcement and loan recovery. These would include,
inter alia, the interdiction made to delinquent borrowers to participate
in bids for public procurement or for privatization, modifying, wherever
necessary, domestic legislation to put it in conformity with OHADA, the
training of magistrates, etc
In parallel, measures will be taken to stabilize the financial sector. In
the banking sector, Government will review the situation of the bankrupt
housing bank and the community finance bank. and will decide, in close
consultation with the World Bank on the future of these two institutions
in the context of an overall strategy of housing and local communities
finance. Government will foster the restructuring of commercial banks, as
needed, and strongly encourage and even contribute to capacity building at
all levels. In the insurance sectors, three companies (including the
newest arrival) need profound restructuring with an injection of funds.
This should be accompanied by a review of tariffs and the implementation
of the CIMA code by the judiciary. In addition, as is the case with the
banking sector, massive capacity building is required.
Financial sector deepening would follow with the reinforcement of existing
financial microfinance institutions and the development of new ones in an
orderly planned fashion, the restructuring of the post office savings and
chequing services, a global reform of the social security system and the
introduction of new institutions such as leasing and venture capital
companies. These new institutions would cater to the small and micro
operators and rural communities provide an alternative to the commercial
banks. They would also offer term and equity financing to those who do
not have access to the stock market
2. Objectives
The global objective of the project is to improve the efficiency, reach
and depth of the Niger financial system so that it can fulfill its
important role of contributing to growth and poverty reduction.
Currently, the financial sector of Niger does not respond to the
particular needs of the population and economic operators. It does not
provide a safe heaven for their savings nor the financing they need. It
does not cater to the needs of the small and medium sized firms, the rural
communities, or the informal sector. It is thus important to restore an
efficient and dynamic financial sector. Indeed, a healthy and developed
financial sector is an important contributor to economic growth and
macrostability, through the provision of payment mechanisms, through
savings mobilization and the supply of financing instruments for
consumption and investment. In turn higher growth contributes to poverty
reduction. In addition, an efficient financial sector contributes
directly to poverty alleviation. This is especially true of mechanisms of
- 3-



financial intermediation of proximity (microfinance and postal financial
services) that cater to the rural world, small operators, and least
favored groups of society offering instruments to mobilize their limited
resources and small financing to respond to needs related to education,
health care, the purchase of seeds or the sale of products on the village
market. Through insurance companies and the social security institution
the financial sector offers protection against sickness, work accidents as
well as support to the young and the old.
Detailed objectives are:
- to improve mobilization of savings
- to improve sources of financing to the economy
- to improve access to financial services in urban and rural areas
- to improve the depth of the financial sector by increasing the
instruments available for term and
equity
financing and funding to small and medium size enterprises
- to improve the functioning of the banking and insurance sectors
- to restructure the postal savings and chequing bank
- to improve the social security system, and
- to improve capacity within ministries and within banks and insurance
companies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
First as stated earlier, this project is an important complement to the
recently approved adjustment credit. Second, the Bank has a broad
experience in financial sector restructuring having been involved in most
African countries, and particularly in the franc zone countries. Third,
other donors in Niger are absent from this area leaving a vacuum which the
Bank is well positioned by its expertise and experience to fill.
4. Description
The objective of the project is to provide technical support to the
Government financial sector adjustment program as described in its
report, in the letter of policy development attached to the SAC and in the
interim PRSP.
The project will have five components: (a) the strengthening of the
environment within which financial institutions operate; (b) the
restructuring and development of specialized finance; (c) the development
of financial intermediation of proximity (dealing with microfinance and
postal financial services); (d) social security reform; and (e) capacity
building
Strengthening of the environment
This will deal primarily with the settlement of Government arrears towards
financial institutions and the strengthening of the judiciary apparatus.
New BCEAO regulation requires that all Governments reimburse the statutory
advances they received from BCEAO by December 31st 2001. These amount to:
I           ]. To satisfy this requirement, the Government of Niger
proposes to issue Treasury Bills on the regional stock exchange (BRVM)
- 4 -



with the intent of levying funds domestically but also in other UEMOA
countries. For commercial banks and insurance companies, the arrears
settlement package will include a combination of cash and debt issue. The
project will finance technical assistance in the design of these
instruments.
On the judiciary, the project will finance a roundtable on justice and
financial institutions, the analysis of existing national legislation and
the design of amendments to put it in conformity with OHADA and a study on
loan recovery, the enforcement of contracts and the taking of
guarantees..
Specialized finance
The housing bank and the local communities lending banks are both
bankrupt. These two government owned specialized banks have been placed
under interim administration. The administrator proposed in May 2001 a
plan to clean up the balance sheets of these two institutions and to merge
them into a new institution whose capital would be gradually opened to the
private sector. The proposed plan was strongly criticized by the Bretton
Woods institutions because: (a) the cleaning of the balance sheets was
only partial; and (b) the proposed business plan lacked credibility as it
did not rest on an understanding of the problems facing the housing
industry and local communities finance and was not based on market
research. (for instance, there was no tentative to understand, why the
private sector was not present in the commercial mortgage market). As it
happened, the proposed plan was rejected by the BCEAO who returned it
without even submitting to the banking commission for analysis and
eventual non objection
Government has agreed to review the situation and to proceed with; (i) a
complete clean-up of the balance sheets of these two banks; and (ii)
launch studies to develop a housing and housing finance strategy and a
local communities finance strategy. [the housing study will distinguish
between housing on commercial terms, subsidized housing (e.g. for public
servants) and social housing for the very poor]. These studies will
highlight the financial ( eg. absence of mortgage market, difficulties in
taking guarantees) and non- financial obstacles (e.g. serviving the plots,
availability of material) to the construction of housing, as well as the
obstacles to the financing of local communities. It will define the most
instruments to finance housing development (by categories, i.e. commercial
housing, subsidized housing and social housing) and to finance local
communities. The studies will indicate whether the two existing
institutions (CDN and CPCT) have a role to play, what it should eb and
how these institutions should be reorganized. If there is no role for
these institutions, they will be liquidated. The project will fund the
studies and the preparation of the two strategies.
There is currently little term financing in the country and the project
will finance a study of the demand and supply of long term financing
leading to concrete recommendations on how to improve the situation. The
project will also support a study of SME/SMI financing. Finally, the
project will fund an information and sensibilization campaign on financial
markets in general and more specifically on BRVM.
- 5 -



Financial intermediation of proximity
Microfinance institutions, the postal savings bank and the center of
postal cheques bring financial intermediation to the neighborhoods in
towns and cities and to rural areas. Through the mobilization of small
savings and the extension of small credits they are the forefront of the
fight against poverty.
The microfinance institutions are in a fragile state (as eloquently
illustrated by the recent difficulties experienced by Taimako which
required emergency actions, including the appointment of an interim
administrator and the imposition of limits deposits withdrawals). They
have developed in an haphazard way without much coordination among donors
and sponsors. Under the aegis of IFAD, and with the participation of the
World Bank, a strategy for micro-finance development has been adopted by
the authorities and a project has been put in place. Despite these
actions, there remains an urgent need to conduct audits of the main
microfinance institutions to ascertain their financial health and the
risks they carry. The audits will indicate the The project will fund
these audits and some capacity building in coordination with the IFAD
project.
Both the postal savings bank and the postal chequing center are bankrupt.
The savings bank has been inoperative since 1992 and [     ] of deposits
have remained frozen. The chequing centers are basically solely used to
pay salaries, particularly in rural areas. The root causes of the
problems can be found in poor management, Government interference, the
lack of separation between general post office operations and the
operations of the savings bank and the chequing center (e.g. the deposits
collected by the savings bank being treated as general revenues of the
post office..etc). The authorities have agreed to proceed with a global
restructuring which calls for the merger of the savings and chequing
operations of the post office and the establishment of a wholly owned
subsidiary of the post office to run these financial services (thereafter
called the postal bank). The postal bank will be completely restructured
with a new internal organization, an opening balance sheet and accounting
system distinct from that of the post office. All deposits will be kept
in the balance sheet. The Government will recapitalize the bank and in so
doing will rpovide the cash necessary for its adily operations. The
shortfall in assets will be filled by Government bonds.
The efficiency of the postal bank can only be as good as that of the post
office whose facilities (premises and personnel) it is using. It was
thus agreed with the authorities that the post office would be
restructured at the same time as the financial services. The project will
support the restructuring of both, the post office and the postal bank,
funding the consultants that will provide technical assistance for the
implementation of the restructuring, equipment (e.g. computer, information
ssytems and links), as well as training. A prerequisite to the
restructuring of the post office and the postal bank is an important
downsizing of personnel. Government, post office management and unions
have agreed on the need to downsize. The project will cover the payment
of the legal rights of dismissed workers.
Social security reform.
-6-



Social security affords much needed protection to the workers (against
work related accidents and illnesses), to the young (through family
allowances) and to the old (through the pension system).     CNSS which
provides coverage to salaried workers is bankrupt and suffers from a
liquidity shortage;   its reach is very limited, less than 10. of the
population; and it does not offer some products (such as health care).
The authorities recognize the urgency to reform the system of social
protection within the country as part of the fight against poverty. A
tri-partite committee (bringing together, Government, employers and
employees) is already at work with a mandate to restructure CNSS. Its
mandate will be extended to include a broad review of social protection.
(covering, inter alia, beneficiaries and products)
The authorities have entered into an agreement with the ILO to conduct an
actuarial study of CNSS as a first step towards the restructuring of that
institution. They have asked the Bank to fund this study which will be
done under the cover of this project. In addition, the project will also
fund several studies dealing with the extension of coverage, the reform of
the system (the inclusion of a defined contribution fully funded pension
scheme), an overhaul of CNSS, the implementation of changes to
contributions and benefits building on the actuarial study; the
introduction of health coverage, if adequate funding can be identified, an
analysis of the system in place for civil servants, etc.The project will
also fund the purchase of equipment needed to improve the efficiency of
CNSS, particularly computers and information systems.
As was the case for the post office, a prerequisite to reform is the
downsizing of the personnel of CNSS. Here again there is agreement on the
matter between Government, management and unions. The project will
finance the legal rights of dismissed workers.
Capacity Building
All studies of the financial system of Niger have underscored the capacity
deficiencies at all levels. The project will contribute to fund capacity
building in commercial banks, insurance companie, microfinance
institutions, postal bank, as well ass within the Ministry of Finance to
reinforce the department of money and credit which is responsible for the
monitoring of banks and supervision of micro-finance institutions and the
division of insurance (responsible for the monitoring and supervision of
insurance companies). Consideration will also be given to provide
financing to the banking association and the insurance association as part
of the capacity building effort. The Minister of Finance has requested
that an expatriate technical adviser in charge of financial sector reform
be posted in his office. The project will fund this resident adviser.
Cost estimates
The costs presented below are just that, estimates. They will be sharpened
during appraisal. It is important to note that the relative high costs for
post office restructuring and for social security restructring include the
costs of the payments of the legal rights of the dismissed workers
I. Reform of environment
-7-



A.Settllement of arrears
B. Judiciary Reform - Roundtable on Justice
- Placing national law in conformity with OHADA
- Study on guarantee taking and loan recovery
II. Specialized Finance
A.Housing and local finance strategy
B. Study on long term financing
C.Study on SME financing
D. Sensibilization campaign on stock exchange
B. Restructuring of Post Office (including financial services) and
costs of lay-offs
IV. Social Security Reform (including compensation of laid-off staff).
V. Capacity building
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $15.00
Total Project Cost $15.00
6. Implementation
Implementation period
The project would be implemented over a four year period. The
implementation plan will be designed in detail at the end of the
preparation phase. The implementation will be flexible and progressive
Executing agencies: There will be three implementing agencies: the
Ministry of Finance (division of money and credit and division of
insurance), the post office, the social security reform committee. An
administrative and financial unit will provide assistance to the
implementing agencies dealing mainly with budgetary issues, disbursement,
procurement, contracts, etc. It will manage the special account, The
project accounting system will be compliant with OP/BP 10.02. It will
prepare annual accounts for external audit no later than four months after
the end of each calendar year. Signed audit reports will be submitted
annually to IDA no later than six months after the end of the calendar
year.   The audit reports will cover the project accounts, the special
accounts and SOEs. The unit will be staffed by a chief financial officer,
an accountant and a procurement specialist. The recruitment of external
auditors would be a condition for Board.
Oversight and coordination
The Ministry of Finance will have overall responsibility for the project.
A steering committee with representatives from all implementing agencies
will play a coordinating role.
7. Sustainability
Niger can only develop if there is a sound economic policy framework in
place (including macrostability), effective support for the private sector
and a social policy which recognizes the needs to share the fruits of
growth and provide a minimal social safety net. The project supports
these three conditions. It furthers macrostability by strengthening the
- 8 -



banking and insurance sectors (through institutional restructuring and
capacity building). Banking sector reform, insurance restructuring and
development of microfinance will provide much needed support to the
private sector. Finally, microfinance, the postal bank, and the social
security reform will provide a social safety net.
While contributing to a stable macroframework, the reform supported by
the project (i.e. the strengthening of the banking and insurance sector),
these reforms require a stable macroframework to be themselves sustainable
in the long run. It is this interaction that will contribute to the long
run sustainability of both..
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project builds on the key assumption that macroeconomic reforms by
themselves may not provide the expected results. Experience in many
countries show that the combination of an adjustment program together with
a TA operation can be quite successful. In fact macro-economic reforms
need to be supported by micro-economic actions. This is particular true
in the financial sector where macro-economic objectives can only be
realized through institutional reforms dealing with banks, insurance
companies, microfinance, the postal bank, the social security institution,
i.e. at the micro level.
A second lesson is that most of the reforms can only be implemented with
the support of all stakeholders, thus their involvement from the
preparation stage of the project.
A third lesson is that financial sector reform takes time. Thus the
design of the project to accompany the reforms for an initial period of
four years which could be extended or renewed.
Several other countries in francophone Africa are more advanced than Niger
in financial sector reform. This is the case of Cote d'Ivoire and
Cameroon to name but two examples. Niger will draw on their experiences.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No significant issue.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andre Ryba
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
9



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 10 -



