                                             Documentof
                                         The WorldBank



                                                                              ReportNo: 27661-NR

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                         PROPOSEDCREDIT

           INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 10.9MILLION(US$14.8MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                        REPUBLICOF NIGER

                                                FORA

                      FINANCIAL SECTORTECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                           January 23,2004




Financial Sector Unit
Africa Region




This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
heir official duties. Its contentsmavnot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective January 2004 )

                                 Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                         CFAF = US$O.O019428
                                         US$1 = 514.7 CFA

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 -- December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BALINEX     Banque Arable Libyenne potir le Commerce Extirietir et le Diveloppement
B C C       BankofCommerce and Credit
BCEAO       Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afriqiie de I'Ouest
             (Central Bank o f West African States)
B C N       Banque Commerciale du Niger
BDRN        Banque de Dkveloppement de la Rkpublique dti Niger
BHDL        Banque de I'Habitat et du Dkveloppement Local
BIA         Banqtie Internationalepotir I'Afrique au Niger
BIN          Bank Intemational o fNiger
B I N C I   Banque Islamique du Niger pour le Commerce et l'lnvestissement
BOA          Bank o f Africa
BRVM        Bourse Rkgionale des Valeurs MobiliBres
CAREN        Compagnie d'Assurance et de Rkasstirance dti niger
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCP          Centre des Chdques Postaux
C D N        Crkdit du Niger
C I D A      Canadian Lntemational Development Agency
C I M A      Confkrence Inter-africaine des Marchks d'ilssurance
CIPRES       Confirence Inter-africaine de la Prkvoyance Sociale
C N C A      Caisse Nationale de Crkdit Agricole
CNSS         Caisse Nationale de Skcuritk Sociale (National Social Security Institution)
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPCT         Caisse de Prgt aux Collectivitks Territoriales
DCA         Direction du ContrGle des Assurances
DGER        Direction Gknkrale de I'Economie et des Rkformes
D M C E      Direction de la Monnaie, du Crkdit et de I'Epargne
DMI         Dar Al-Man1A1Islami
FMR          Financial Management Report
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GON          Government o fNiger
G P N        General Procurement Notice
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IAPSO        Inter Agency Procurement Services Office
I C B        International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Islamic Development Bank

                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

 IFAD       Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
 IGE        Inspection Ginirale d'Etat
 IGF        Inspection Gkndrale des Finances
 ILO        IntemationalLabor Organization
 IMF        Intemational Monetary Fund
 L A C 1    Loan Administration Change Initiative
 L C S      Least-Cost Selection
 MCPEC      Movement des CaissesPopailnires d'Epnvgne et de Crkdit
 MFE        MinistryofFinance andEconomy
 MFI        Microfinance Institutions
 NBFI       N o n Bank-Financial Institutions
 N C B      National Competitive Bidding
 NIA        NigBvienne d 'Assurance et de Riassuvance
 NIB        Nigerian Intemational Bank
 ONPE       Office Nationale des Postes et de IEpnrgne
 OPT        OfJice des Postes et Telecommunications
 PARMEC     Projet d'Appiii a la Riglementation sur les Mtituelles d'Epargne et de Crkdit
 PDSFR      Projet de Dkveloppement des Services Financiers Ruratix
 PEAC       Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
 PIM        Project Information Manual
 PMU        Project Management Unit
 PPF        Project Preparation Facility
 PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 PST        Postal Savings Bank
 QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
  SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
 SBD        Standard BiddingDocuments
 SFD        SystBmesFinanciers Dicentralisis
 S L C U    Savings and Loans Credit Unions
 S M E      Small and Medium-size Enterprise
 SNAR-LEYMA Sociitk Nigkrienne d 'Assuranceet de Riasszimnce
  SOE       Statement of Expenditure
 SONIBANK   Sociktk Nigirienne de Banqiie
 SONITEL    Sociktk Nigirienne de Tklkcommtinications (Telecommunications Company)
 TA         Technical Assistance
 UEMOA      Union Economique et Monktaive Ouest Afncaine
            (West Afncan Econoinic and Monetary Union)
 UGAN       Union Gknkrale des Assurances dii Niger
 USAID      United States Agency for International Development

                               Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                     Acting, Country Director:    Dianetou Gaye
                              Sector Manager:     Gerard A. Byam
                           Task Team Leader:      Andre Rvba




This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                                       2


                                                 NIGER
                  FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   5
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       11
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  11
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                    11
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         11

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            12
   2. Financial                                                                           12
   3. Technical                                                                           12
   4. Institutional                                                                       12
   5. Environmental                                                                       12
   6. Social                                                                              13
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14


F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                      14

  2. Critical risks                                              14
  3. Possible controversial aspects                              15


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                     15
  2. Other                                                       16

H. Readiness for Implementation                                  16

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                     16
                                                                 16


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                  17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                            20
Annex 3:  EstimatedProject Costs                                 29
Annex 4: Summary o f Benfits and Costs                           30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                       31
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                             32
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements    39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                             42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                           43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                          44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                    45
Annex 11: Review of the Financial Sector of Niger                47




MAP(S)
IBRD32251

                                                          NIGER
                                    FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                              ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                                   Africa Regional Office
                                                          AFTFS

Date: January 23,2004                                         Team Leader: Andre Ryba
Sector Managermirector: Gerard A. Byam                        Sector(s): Banlung (30%), Postal services (30%),
icting Country Director: Diarietou Gaye                       Housing finance and real estate markets (20%), Micro- and
Project ID: PO74316                                           SME finance (15%), Compulsory pension and
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)           unemployment i r " n c e  (5%)
                                                              Theme@): Other fmancial and private sector development
                                                              (P), State enterprisehank restructuring and privatization
                                                              (S), Legal institutions for a market economy (S), Rural
                                                              markets (S), Social riskmitigation (S)
Project Financing Data
  [ ]Loan                 [XI Credit    [ ]Grant   [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 14.8

Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                      Years to maturity: 40



[DA
FOREIGNPRIVATECOMMERCIAL SOURCES
`UNIDENTIFIED


Borrower: GOVERNMENTOF NIGER (GON)
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Contact Person: Mr. Sayedi Assoumana
Tel: 227 723250                        Fax:             Email:

Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementation period: 2004-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 0413012004 Expected closing date: 04/30/2008
C I P I 0 b,"e* ,.e* >om

A. Project Development Qbjective

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The global objective o f the project is to improve the efficiency, reach and depth o f the Niger fmancial
system so that it can fulfill its important role o f contributing to growth and poverty reduction. A healthy
and developed financial sector is an important contributor to economic growth and macrostability, through
the provision o f payment mechanisms, through savings mobilization and the supply o f financing
instruments for consumption and investment. In turn higher growth contributes to poverty reduction. In
addition, an efficient financial sector contributes directly to poverty alleviation. This i s especially true o f
mechanisms o f financial intermediation o f proximity (microfmance and postal financial services) that cater
to the rural world, small operators and least favored groups o f society offering instruments to mobilize their
limited resources as well as small financing to respond to needs related to education, health care, the
purchase o f seeds or the sale of products on the village market. Through insurance companies and the
social security institution the financial sector offers protection for theft, fire, sickness, work accidents as
well as support to the young and the old.

As seen in section B.2 below and in Annex 11, the fmancial sector o f Niger does not currently respond to
the needs o f the population and economic operators in terms o f savings mobilization and availability o f
financing. All groups suffer, be they large or small, living inurban or inrural areas, operating in the formal
or informal sector. I t i s thus important to restore the efficiency and dynamism o f this sector.

Detailed objectives, as part of the global approach to improve the efficiency, reach and depth o f the
financial sector, are:

      to improve mobilization o f savings;
      to improve sources o f financing to the economy;
       to improve access to fmancial services inurbanand rural areas;
      to improve the depth of the fmancial sector by increasing the instruments available for term and
      equityfinancing;
      to improve the functioning o f the banlung and insurance sectors;
      to restructure the postal savings and checking bank;
      to develop sustainable micro-finance institutions,
       to improve the social security system; and
      to build capacity within ministries and within the financial sector (especially banks, insurance
      companies and micro-finance institutions).

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Key indicators include: (a) an increase in deposits and loans o f commercial banks by 5 percent over the life
of the project; (b) an increase by 15 percent in the membership of micro-finance institutions; (c) the
re-opening o f the postal savings bank and an increase by 15 percent o f the number o f accounts in the
financial services subsidiary; (d) the privatization or liquidation o f Crddit dzi Niger (CDN), the latter with
or without the establishment o f a fiduciary fund managed by commercial banks; (e) the completion o f an
actuarial audit o f the Cnisse NationaZ de Sicziritd Social (CNSS) and the adoption o f draft legislation by
the Council o f Ministers to reequilibrate the benefits and contributions; (f) training o f ten percent o f staff of
commercial banks and insurance companies; (g) publication o f a decree prohibiting delinquent borrowers
from participating in calls for bids for privatization and public procurement; (h) establishment o f a
regulatory framework to allow for the issuing o f land titles on vacant land; and (i)        increase in customer
satisfaction with financial institutions over the life o f the project.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: [see Annex 1)
Document number: 25203              Date of latest CAS discussion: January 14, 2003

Financial sector restructuring and deepening has been discussed in the CAS which was presented to the
Board on January 14, 2003 (IDAiR2002-019711). The CAS includes in the harsh environment which Niger
must overcome to develop "a weak fmancial sector that does not allow for adequate mobilization o f
domestic resources, nor for fmancing o f private sector and rural development, housing, health care and
education". The Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit is included inthe lending program outlined in
the CAS. The financial sector figures prominently in the draft PRSP. This document recognizes its
cross-cutting role and the need to strengthen it so that it can provide support for all sectors o f economic
activity. In line with the PRSP, the authorities have proposed a detailed program o f Financial Sector
Reform (Programme d'Ajtistement du Sectezir Financier Nigdrien) which this Technical Assistance (TA)
project will support.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:

Although it i s composed o f a broad range o f financial institutions (eight commercial banks, four insurance
companies, 178 micro-finance institutions, postal financial services, a social security institution, three stock
brokers and a stock exchange), the fmancial sector o f Niger lacks depth. M l / G D P decreased from 12.4
percent in 1988 to 4.7 percent in 1998. M2/GDP fell from 20 percent to 9.2 percent over the same period,
but recovered to 12 percent in 2001, and . In fact, between 1988 and 1998, M1 declined by about 31
percent, credits by more than 50 percent and deposits by 42 percent. Contributing to this decline i s the
delicate health o f the fmancial sector, the result o f ten years o f poor economic performance, the growing
informalization o f the economy, the dysfunctioning o f the judiciary system and the lack o f dynamism o f the
institutions themselves ( the removal from monetary statistics o f frozen deposits in failed banks has also
been a contributing technical factor). Annex 11presents a more detailed description o f the financial sector
and the problems it faces.

The banking sector which accounts for 62 percent o f the total assets o f the sector (84.5 percent ifthe social
security institution is excluded) is fragile and highly concentrated. (The two largest banks account for close
to two-thirds o f deposits and credits o f the sector). It has a select clientele, with a concentrated credit
portfolio; it has a limited penetration inthe country; it suffers from a large non-performing portfolio (inone
case as highas 84 percent of total credits) and an even higher portfolio at risk; with a few exceptions, bank
borrowers do not qualify for central bank refinancing which is telling about the quality o f loan portfolios;
banks' leverage is often l o w indicating that resources are not used to the fullest extent in granting credit
(generally because o f a lack o f bankable demand for loans inan economy where the formal sector is small).
As a corollary, several banks have a highratio of operating expenses to net banking product. Four banks
(three o f which with negative net worth) are either under interim administration or under close watch from
the banking commission. Banks offer mainly short term credits and these are concentrated in the service
and trade sectors, followed by mining. Agnculture i s conspicuously absent. Capacity is very low and bank
personnel at all levels is poorly trained and lacks knowledge o f bank operations.

The development o f micro finance institutions has been rather haphazard depending on the support o f
donors which intervened without much coordination. Financial cooperatives suffer from weak intemal
structures and a lack o f professional staff; their experience with loan recovery i s mixed; they are still far
from attaining self-sustainability; and their reach leaves much to be desired. The postal savings bank and
the postal checking services: which could play an important role in a mostly rural country, have limited

activity (the postal savings bank has altogether ceased operations).

The insurance sector has also been in dire straits. At the tuin o f the century, none o f the companies met all
prudential norms set up by CIMA (Confkrence Inter-africaine des Marchks d'Asszirance), the regonal
regulator. The two largest companies were inneed o f a substantial recapitalization. The most recent arrival
suffered from poor management and a weak financial position.

There are almost no operations on the Niamey antenna o f the regional stock exchange. In addition the
antenna does little to familiarize the population with the operations and possibilities offered by the stock
exchange. Finally, the social security institution suffers from lack o f autonomy from the State, absence o f
separate management o f branches, excessive operating costs and structural deficits.

Insuch a context, the populationofNiger does not benefit from the quantity or quality of financial services
it requires. The financial sector o f Niger does not respond to the particular needs o f the population and
economic operators. It does not provide a safe heaven for their savings nor adequate financing. It does not
cater to the needs o f the small and medium sized f m s , the rural communities, or the informal sector. There
is no magic wand that would instantaneously resolve all these problems. The main avenue i s to restore a
healthy and competitive financial sector evolving within a conducive environment. This requires a two-step
approach: a phase o f stabilization o f the financial sector accompanied by strengthening o f the environment
followed by a phase o f financial deepening. The Government has developed a financial sector adjustment
program o n the basis o f a well documented report (Programme d'Ajzistement dzi Sectezir Financier
Nigerien) prepared by a special committee created by an "arre^tk" o f September 4, 2000. This report was
an input in the PRSP. In parallel, World Bank staff prepared a financial sector review (2000-2001) which
was also used as an input by the authorities in the establishment o f their strategy. The proposed reform i s
articulated around three broad pillars: strengthening the environment within which the financial institutions
operate, financial sector stabilization and financial sector deepening.

Strengthening the environment involves a return to macro-economic stability, strengthening regulation
and supervision o f institutions and improving the functioning o f the judiciary. An important element is the
restoration o f budgetary equilibria and the restructuring o f Government debt including the securitization o f
debt and arrears. Debt towards the Banqiie des Etats d'ilfiqiie de 1'Ozrest (BCEAO) was consolidated
over a ten-year period at a preferential rate o f interest. Settlement o f Government arrears towards the banks
and the insurance companies would be in the form of cash payments. While, there is room for
improvement, the regulatory framework for banks, cooperatives, insurance companies and financial
markets i s satisfactory, to a large extent because the regulation and the supervisory authorities are
sub-regional. The Commission Bancaire and the Conseil Rigional de 1'Epargne Pzibliqzie et des March&
Financiers cover all eight Union Economique et iMonitaire des Etats de 1Yfrique de 1'Oziest (UEMOA)
countries; CIMA (for insurance) and CIPRES (for social security) exercise their prerogative over the whole
franc zone. Nevertheless, on the banking side, regulation on the opening o f branches within the UEMOA
zone should be amended to facilitate and encourage wider cross-border diversification. But this can only be
done on a regional basis.      Measures will be taken to improve the functioning o f the judiciary which
currently does not provide adequate support to contract enforcement and loan recovery. These would
include, inter alia, the interdiction made to delinquent borrowers to participate in bids for public
procurement or for privatization, the modification, wherever necessary, o f domestic legislation to put it in
conformity with OHADA, the training o f magistrates, the modernization o f registries, etc. In addition,
regulatory changes will be made to the process o f tahng guarantees (mortgages inparticular).

Financial sector stabilization involves arresting the decline o f banks and insurance companies. In the
banking sector, progress has already been realized. Recapitalization o f Banqzre Commerciale dzi Niger


                                                       - 4 -

(BCN) is almost complete and intemal restructuring o f that bank is under way. An agreement has been
reached between the authorities, DMIand the Islamic Development Bank for the recapitalization o f Bnnqzre
Islnmiqtre pouv le Commerce et I'lnvestissenzent (BINCI). Following a study on the financing o f local
communities conducted as a preparation to this project, the community finance bank, Caisse de Prgt nux
Collectivitks Tevritorinles (CPCT) will be split into a healthy bank and a liquidation structure, and new
lendingby the restructured entity will not start untilthe local communities have regained credit-worthiness.
The Government will attempt to privatize 90 percent o f the capital o f the housing bank, Credit dti Niger
(CDN), through an open international bidding process. The banlung commission will have to approve the
new partners, the new management and the business plan. Should the search for private partners be
unsuccessful, the Government will either close C D N outright, or close it and transfer its business to a
fiduciary fund managed by a commercial bank. The four other commercial banks are in satisfactory shape.
However, they will require a large dose o f capacity building at all levels, given the weakness o f human
resources inthis sector.

The insurance companies have been recapitalized. This should be accompanied by a review o f tariffs and
the implementation o f the C I M A code by the judiciary. In addition, as is the case with the banking sector,
massive capacity buildingi s required.

Financial sector deepening would involve the reinforcement o f existing micro-finance institutions and the
development o f new ones in an orderly planned fashion, the restructuring o f the post office savings and
checlung services, reform of the social security system and the development o f new fmancing instruments
and mechanisms. This would contribute to increase the reach o f the sector through institutions and
instruments adapted to the needs o f the populations.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

Inthe context of the strategy developed above, the project will mainly deal with financial sector deepening,
namely, the development of financial intermediation o f proximity (postal fmancial services and
micro-finance): the social security institution and capacity building. I t will accompany the privatization o f
the housing bank (or the creation o f a fiduciary fund, in case o f liquidation) and the restructuring o f the
comnunity finance bank. It will also support the authorities inthe modification to the legal framework and
modemization o f the judiciary apparatus in areas that would have a positive impact on the functioning of
the financial sector. The project will thus focus on areas important for economic growth and poverty
reduction that will bringbenefits to a large part o f the population.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The objective o f the project is to provide technical support to the Govemment global financial sector
adjustment program as described inits report, in the letter o f policy development attached to the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) and in the interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). To that effect, the
project will have six components: (a) the strengthening o f the environment within which financial
institutions operate; (b) the restructuring o f the banlung sector; (c) the development o f financial
intermediation o f proximity (dealing with micro-fmance and postal financial services); (d) social security
reform; (e) capacity building; and (f) project management.

Strengthening o f the environment

A favorable environment within which fmancial institutions operate is a necessary condition for a



                                                       - 5 -

successful restructuring o f the financial sector. Two areas have been identified as retarding factors in the
development o f financial institutions: Government arrears and the legalijudiciary framework. In addition,
the lack o f financing o f small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) remains a concem and an issue is how
to make the environment more conducive to SME financing.

Onthe legalijudiciary front, a number o f legislative changes are contemplated to allow issuing landtitles on
vacant properties and develop guarantees better adapted to housing finance in rural areas; a more general
study on guarantee talung will be conducted; magistrates will be trained on financial issues; a seminar on
justice and financial institutions will bring together magistrates, institutions managers and their clients to
identify the problems and propose corrective measures; the urban and rural land as well as miningregistries
will be strengthened and the judiciary recordwill be modernized.

Finally, a study on SME financing will be undertaken and some o f its recommendations implemented.

Restructuring. o f the bankinn sector

Of the four banks identified as problematic, the restructuring o f two o f them, B C N and BINCI, is close to
completion. The project will monitor progress with the restructuring o f these two banks. But it will mainly
focus on C D N and CPCT.

The housing bank and the local communities financing                 banks are both bankrupt. These two
govemment-owned banks have been under interim administration since 1999. The administrator proposed
inMay 2001 a plan to clean up the balance sheets of these two institutions and merge them into a new
institution, Bnnqtre de I'Habitnt et du Diveloppement local (BHDL), whose capital would be gradually
opened to the private sector. The proposed plan was criticized by the Bretton Woods institutions because:
(a) the cleaning o f the balance sheets was only partial; and (b) the proposed business plan lacked credibility
as it did not rest on an understanding o f the problems facing the housing industry and local communities
finance and was not based on market research (for instance, there was no tentative to understand, why the
private sector was not present inthe commercial mortgage market). As it happened, the proposed plan was
rejected by the Central Bank, BCEAO,           who returned it without even submitting it to the Banking
Commission for analysis and eventual non objection.

A study on local community finance concluded that there was a need for a mechanism to finance these
communities, and that the private sector i s highlyunlikely to get involved. It also concluded that at this time
these communities are not sufficiently credit worthy to borrow. It was agreed with the authorities that: (i)
CPCT would be split between a healthy bank and a liquidation structure; and (ii) lending to local
                                                                                         that
communities would only resume when communities, through the decentralization process would have
regained enough financial strength to make them credit worthy. The credit will accompany the restructuring
o f CPCT.

The Government will restructure the C D N by moving out bad assets and will attempt to privatize 90
percent o f the capital o f the restructured bank through an open international bidding process. Should the
attempt be unsuccessful , CDN would be liquidated and its good loan portfolio transferred to a fiduciary
fund managedby a commercial bank. The credit would fund management assistance provided inthe interim
period to the CDN, as well as the privatization adviser and other costs related to the privatization, such as
publication costs, etc. In case o f liquidation, the credit would fund the fees o f the commercial bank
managing the fiduciary fund for a period o f two years.




                                                      - 6 -

Financial intermediationo f proximitv

Micro-fmance institutions and the postal financial services bring (or should bring) financial intermediation
to the neighborhoods in towns and cities and to rural areas. Through the mobilization o f small savings and
the extension o f small credits they are at the forefront of the fight against poverty.

The micro-finance institutions are in a fragile state (as eloquently illustrated by the recent difficulties
experienced by Taiinako which required emergency actions, including the appointment o f an interim
administrator and the imposition o f limits on deposit withdrawals). They have developed in an haphazard
way without much coordination among donors and sponsors. Under the aegis o f IFAD, and with the
participation o f the World Bank, a strategy for micro-finance development has been adopted by the
authorities and a project, Projet de DCveloppement des Services Financiers Ruraux (PDSFR), has beenput
inplace. There is an urgent need to conduct audits of the mainmicro-finance institutions to ascertain their
financial health and the risks they carry. The project will fimd these audits, which are not included in the
PDSFR, as well as the implementation o f some o f their recommendations.

Inaddition, the project will contribute to the strengthening of the micro-finance unit within the direction of
money credit and saving at the Ministry o f Finance, through technical assistance and the purchase o f
equipment (for instance, it will fund a resident expatriate expert inthe micro-finance unit).


Both the postal savings bank and the postal checking centers are bankrupt. The savings bank has been
inoperative since 1992 and CFAF 4.1 billion o f deposits have remained frozen. The checking centers
(CFAF 4.8 billion in deposits) are today mainly a channel for public servant salaries, particularly in rural
areas. The root causes o f the problems can be found in poor management, Government interference, the
lack of separation between general post office operations and the operations o f the savings bank and the
checking center (e.g. the deposits collected by the savings bank and the checking services were treated as
general revenues o f the post office, etc.), inappropriate accounting and information systems, lack o f
accountability and absence o f an external supervision framework. The authorities have agreed to proceed
with a global restructuring which calls for the merger of the savings and checking operations of the post
office and the establishment o f a wholly-owned subsidiary o f the post office to run these financial services
(thereafter called the postal bank). The postal bank will be completely restructured with a new internal
organization, and an accounting system and financial statements distinct from those of the post office. All
deposits will be kept on the balance sheet. The postal bank will pay the post office for the use o f its staff
and premises. The Government will recapitalize the bank and in so doing will provide the workmg capital
necessary for its daily operations. The shortfall in assets will be filled by Government bonds.

The efficiency o f the postal bank can only be as good as that o f the post office whose facilities (premises
and personnel) it i s using. It was thus agreed with the authorities that the post office would be restructured
and modernized at the same time as the financial services subsidiary. The project will support the
restructuring o f both, the post office and the postal bank, funding the consultants (on legal, accounting,
information, organizational issues) that will provide technical assistance for the implementation o f the
restructuring: equipment (e.g. computer, infomation systems and telecommunications networks), as well as
training and capacity building to allow postal staff to adjust to the new postal activities and possibly learn
new competencies if they are separated from OWE. The project will also fund experts to improve the
overall postal sector environment through: (a) enhancing the postal sector legal and regulatory framework
and defining and designing a universal service system with an adequate funding mechanism to cover the
costs o f postal services in rural and remote areas; and (b) prepare a progressive liberalization o f the postal
sector ensuring a level-playing field competitive environment. Part o f this work has been financed under
two PPFs.



                                                       - 7 -

An important aspect o f the restructuring o f the post office and the postal bank i s the downsizing o f
personnel. Government, post office management and unions have agreed on the need to downsize. The
project will cover the payment o f part o f the rights o f dismissed workers, with Government funding the
remainder.


Social securitv reform.


Social security affords much needed protection to the workers (against work related accidents and
illnesses), to the young (through family allowances) and to the old (through the pension system). The
Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale (CNSS) which provides coverage to salaried workers i s bankrupt and
suffers from a liquidity shortage; its reach i s very limited, less than 10 percent o f the population, and it
does not offer some products (such as health care). The imbalance between benefits paid and contributions
collected increases each year and constitutes a serious public finance risk. Measures need to be taken to
restore CNSS financial equilibrium on a cash as well as on an actuarial basis.

The authorities recognize the urgency to reform the system o f social protection within the country as part o f
the fight against poverty. A tri-partite committee (bringing together Government, employers and employees)
is already at work with a mandate to restructure CNSS. A first step i s to conduct an actuarial study o f
CNPS. The authorities have asked the Bank to fund this study which will be done under the cover o f this
project. Funding will also be provided for the implementation o f some o f the recommendations o f this
actuarial study.

As was the case for the post office, an important part of reform is the downsizing o f the personnel o f
CNSS. Here again there is an agreement on the matter between Government, management and unions. The
project will finance part o f the rights o f dismissed workers. While CNSS covers less than 10 percent o f the
population, restructuring this institution i s a first step in a more fundamental reform o f the social security
system. The extension o f coverage to other parts o f the population will build on the restructured CNSS.

Cauacitv Building

All studies o f the financial system o f Niger have underscored the capacity deficiencies at all levels. The
project will contribute to fimd capacity building in commercial banks, insurance companies, micro-finance
institutions, the postal bank, as well as within the Ministry o f Finance to reinforce the department of money
and credit (responsible for the monitoring o f banks and supervision o f micro-finance institutions) and the
division o f insurance (responsible for the monitoring and supervision o f insurance companies).
Consideration will also be given to provide financing to the banking association as part o f the capacity
building effort. The Minister of Finance has requested that an expatriate technical adviser in charge o f
financial sector reform be posted in his office. The project will find this resident adviser who will be
responsible for the transfer o f knowledge.


Project Management

The Credit will fund the costs o f project management, including four staff (project coordinator,
procurement specialist, financial management specialist and secretary), and equipment.




                                                        - 8 -

Cost estimates


                            C

  I. ofenvironment
    Reform                                                                           0.0                       0.0
                                                                                     0.0                       0.0
   A. Legalljudiciary                                                   1.67         6.6         1.67         11.3
   B. Study on SME                                                      0.20         0.8         0.20          1.4
  11.BankingRestructuring                                                            0.0                       0.0
   A. Communities finance                                               1.15         4.5         0.30          2.0
   B.Housing finance                                                    3.56        14.0         1.31          8.9
  III. Financial intermediation o f proximity                                        0.0                       0.0
    A. Micro finance                                                    0.83         3.3         0.83          5.6
    B.Restructuring o f Post Office (including financial                9.19        36.2         3.52         23.8
  services) and costs o f lay-offs
  IV. Social Security Reform                                            1.90         1.5         0.85          5.7
  V. Capacity building                                                  3.22        12.7         2.42         16.4
  VI. Administrative and Financial Unit                                 1.25         4.9         1.25          8.4
  Audits                                                                0.50         2.0         0.50          3.4
  PPF Refmancing                                                        0.95         3.7         0.95          6.4
  Unallocated                                                           1.00         3.9   1     1.00          6.8


                                     Total Financing Required         25.42        100.0 j      14.80        100.0

2. K e y policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:

The key policy and institutional reforms sought by the project are: (a) a refocusing o f the Government on
its main roles o f regulator and promoter o f a favorable business environment; (b) the deepening o f the
financial institutional texture o f Niger in order to foster private sector development and economic growth;
(c) the development o f access to fmancial services to the lower income population (through the development
o f financial intermediation o f proximity), thus contributing to poverty alleviation; (d) the building o f the
much needed capacity; and (e) when required, the restructuring o f institutions to make them more efficient
and to increase their reach. A side impact o f the project is improvement o f governance within the fmancial
sector (introduction o f transparency in operations; preventing delinquent borrowers from participating in
bids for privatization and procurement).

3. Benefits and target population:

By promoting a more diversified and deeper financial sector with increased reach, the project will
contribute to economic growth, private sector development and employment creation. By extending the
reach o f the sector through larger geographic penetration and better adapted products, the project will
contribute to poverty alleviation. Consumers will have improved access to greater and more efficient
fmancial services. In particular, the renewal o f the postal bank and the strengthening o f micro-fmance
institutions will provide people o f all walks o f life the needed resources (through better access to their own
savings or through small credits) for the purchase o f essential goods and services, school supplies, malaria
treatment, etc. Businesses, large and small, will benefit from better sources o f financing and from insurance
against a variety o f risks (accident, theft, fire, etc.). Government will benefit indirectly from the larger
fiscal resources generated by increased activity.



                                                         - 9 -

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements:

Implementation period


The project will be implementedover a four-year period. Implementation will be flexible and progressive.


Executing agencies


There will be four executing agencies with only technical responsibilities: the Ministry o f Finance (division
o f money and credit, division o f insurance and microfinance unit), the Ministryo f Justice, the Post Office,
and the Social Security Reform Committee . A Project Management Unit (PMU) composed o f a
coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist and a secretary will provide
assistance to the implementing agencies dealing mainly with budgetary issues, disbursement, procurement,
contracts, etc. The P M U will manage the special account. It will be located at the Ministry o f Finance. The
project accounting system will be compliant with OP/BP 10.02. I t will prepare annual accounts for external
audit no later than four months after the end o f each calendar year. Signed audit reports will be submitted
annually to IDA n o later than six months after the end o f the calendar year. The audit reports will cover the
project accounts, the special accounts and Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs).


Oversight and coordination

The Ministry o f Finance will have overall responsibility for the project. A steering committee composed o f
representatives from the Ministry o f Finance, BCEAO, the social security reform committee, ONPE, the
Ministryof Justice, the commercial banks, the insurance companies and the coordinator of the project will
be responsible for the global oversight o f the project.


D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredand reasons for rejection:

Financial sector reform i s key to promote economic growth and priv te s :t r development, and indirectly
to contribute to the fight against poverty, thus its pro-eminent place in the PRSP document. Given the
policy issues involved, a financial sector adjustment credit could have been viewed as an adequate
instrument. However, an important consideration has militated in favor of choosing a TA credit. While the
authorities and the financial community are determined to forge ahead with the implementation o f the
program, they lack the technical and financial capacities to do so. There i s a great need for advisors,
consultants and equipment and these can only be funded under a TA project.




                                                                                      Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                               Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                  (Bank-financed projects only)


 Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Other development agencies
IPiDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                      - 1 0 -

The Board approved a US$70 million Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC) on October 23,2001.
The fmancial sector reform pursued by the Government figures prominently in the letter o f policy
development accompanying this credit. A second PEAC was presented to the Board on October 23, 2003.
Niger is close to reaclung the HIPC completion point. Major donors are working on a possible support to
judiciary reform. But the preparatory work seems to be taking a long time.

3. Lessonslearned and reflectedin the project design:

The project builds on the key assumption that macroeconomic reforms by themselves may not provide the
expected results. Experience in many countries show that the combination o f an adjustment program
together with a TA operation can be quite successful. Infact macro-economic reforms need to be supported
by micro-economic actions. This i s particularly true in the fmancial sector where macro-economic
objectives can only be realized through institutional reforms dealing with banks, insurance companies,
micro-finance, the postal bank, the social security institution, i.e. at the micro level.

A second lesson is that most of the reforms can only be implemented with the support of all stakeholders,
thus their involvement since the preparation stage ofthe project.

A third lesson is that financial sector reform takes time. Thus the design of the project to accompany the
reforms for an initial period o f four years which could be extended or renewed.

Several other countries in francophone Africa are more advanced than Niger in financial sector reform.
This is the case o f CBte d'Ivoire and Cameroon, to name just two examples. Niger will draw on their
experiences.

4. Indications of borrowercommitment and ownership:

The Government has submitted a formal request for this project and is very keen on it. It i s the Government
that initiated the interest in fmancial sector reform and asked the Bank to conduct a financial sector review.
Government had earlier prepared a well documented report entitled Programme dYjwtement dtr Sectezir
Financier Nigkrien to define its own strategy and program. The proposed credit will accompany the
program designed by the authorities. The authorities consider that financial sector reform plays a major
role inthe fight against poverty as demonstrated by the special section on the financial sector inthe PRSP.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:

As stated earlier, this project is an important complement to the ongoing adjustment credit and more
generally to the global country program (for instance the restructuring o f commercial banks and o f the
Office National de la Poste et de 1'Epargne (ONPE) are included in the IMF program). The Bank has a
broad experience in financial sector restructuring having been involved in most A h c a n countries, and
particularly inthe franc zone countries. Other donors inNiger are not present in the financial sector (except
in the microfinance field) leaving a vacuum which the Bank is well positioned by its expertise and
experience to fill.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(seeAnnex 4):
0Costbenefit            NPV=US$ million; ERR = YO(see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)


                                                     - 11 -

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=USS million: FRR = YO(see Annex 4)
The benefits to the population at large interms o f increased access to financial services and greater
diversity o f instruments outweigh the costs o f the program.


Fiscal Impact:

The expected reduction o f subsidies to inefficient financial sector public enterprises should have a positive
fiscal impact

3. Technical:
The project addresses technical issues at several levels (e.g. regulatory, organizational and financial) and
will bring international, regional and local experience in the search for appropriate technologies and state
o f the art applications, as needed. The restructuring o f the postal and the postal bank is a case inpoint.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:

See section C-4

4.2 Project management:

The project management unit will be given responsibility for the overall administrative management of the
project. It will be headed by a coordinator, assisted by a procurement specialist, a financial management
specialist and a secretary.

4.3 Procurement issues:

A procurement capacity assessment was carried out as part o f the institutional analysis prior to appraisal.
An action plan was garred to including the hiringby the P M U o f a procurement specialist before project
effectiveness (see Annex 6A).

4.4 Financial management issues:

An assessment o fthe financial management capacity o fthe MinistryofFinance hasrevealedweaknesses.
A financial management specialist will be hiredby the project management unitbefore project effectiveness
(see Annex 6B).

5. Environmental:                             Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and E M P preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

No significant issue.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: Not applicable


5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environniental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms



                                                        - 12-

of coiisultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Not applicable

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
envlronnient? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

Not applicable

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The project will have an important positive social impact by bringing financial services to remote localities
and smaller customers. On the other hand, the restructuring o f several institutions and particularly, the
social security institution and the post office may require significant lay-offs. The Bank will mitigate the
impact by ensuring that a n agreement is reached with the workers for compensation payments and the
project will cover part o f the legal rights o f displaced workers. It will also contribute to the establishment o f
re-insertion programs.

6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

Stakeholders have been closely associated by the authorities and the Bank in the preparation o f the project.
Unions have closely participated at the post office and CNSS in the design o f restructuring and partial
lay-off plans. Bankers, micro-finance operators, consumers have been associated to the preparation o f the
project and the Government adjustment program. They will continue to be so. In addition, a special
sub-group dealing with financial sector issues has been set up in the context o f the preparation o f the
PRSP.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

Duringthe life of the project, the project management unit will hold consultations with employers and civil
society to ensure that the positive social impacts are maximized. Bank staff will also meet with these
groups during supervision missions.

6.4 Wliat institutional airaiigements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The project management unit will have responsibility to ensure the project achieves its social development
outcomes.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?

Monitoring will be performed b y the project management unit which will send regular reports to the Bank.




                                                        - 1 3 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                0 Yes 0 No
     ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)                       0 Yes 0 No
     Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                           0Yes 0      NO


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

Not applicable


F. Sustainability and Risks

1. Sustainability

Niger can only develop if there i s a sound economic policy fiamewoi,. inplace (including macro-stability),
effective support for the private sector and a social policy which recognizes the needs to share the fruits o f
growth and provides a minimal safety net. The project supports these three conditions. I t promotes
macro-stability by strengthening the banlung and insurance sectors (through institutional restructuring and
capacity building). Banking sector reform, insurance restructuring and development o f micro-finance will
provide much needed support to the private sector. Finally, micro-finance, the postal bank, and the social
security reform will provide a social safety net.

While contributing to a stable macro-framework, the reforms supported by the project (i.e the strengthening
o f the banking and insurance sectors) require a stable macro framework to be themselves sustainable in the
long run.It i s this interaction that will contribute to the long run sustainability o f the program.




                      Risk                          Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macro-economic stability i s not                         M           Continuing dialogue between GON, the IMF
maintained.                                                          and the Bank.


Government resolve to pursue financial                   M           Continuing policy dialogue involving all
sector reform is weakening.                                          stakeholders.
From Components to Outputs
Government arrears are not settled.                      M           IMFand the Bank work with authorities to
                                                                     ensure that funds are available.




                                                       - 1 4 -

 Banks andor insurance companies do not                      M            Reinforcement of local capacity to monitor
meet prudential regulation.                                               situation and agree on changes with private
                                                                          institutions.


 C D N K P C T not restructured according to                 1M           Maintain constant dialogue with the authorities.
 state o f the art.


Postal Bank not restructuredbecause o f                      M            Ensure that the compensation o f dismissed
opposition from unions and management.                                    workers has beenpaid. Maintain dialogue with
                                                                          stakeholders.


micro-fmance supervision remains                             M            Maintain dialogue with Ministryo f Finance.
unsatisfactory.


Delays inrestructuring micro-finance                         M            Increase assistance provided; discuss with the
institutions.                                                             profession.


Counterpart funds are lacking and project                    S            IDA team works with authorities to ensure that
experiences delays.                                                       funds are inscribed inbudget and are made
                                                                          available as needed.
Overall Risk Rating                                I         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

1wo nsks require special attention. One has to do with the restructunng/pnvatization ot the housing bank.
The Government may not be able to find shareholders agreeable to the Banking Commission, but may
become reluctant to liquidate this institution as per the agreed upon plan. The dialogue will be resumed at
the highest level to ensure that CDN does not remain a hindrance to the efficiency o f the financial sector.
The second i s the possibility that GON may not be able to muster the needed resources to pay
compensations to the surplus staff of ONPE and CNSS, thus threatening the restructuring o f these two
institutions and the establishment o f the postal bank. To mitigate this risk, the proposed compensations will
o r i ~ i c ~ u uIIItiit: uuuget ariu 11ieasurcb taKm tu m w r c tnat casn is avaiiaoie ina timely manner.
                 e u


G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

The Borrower has:

      1. established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit;

      2. appointed an auditor acceptable to IDA for the purpose o f auditing the accounts of the projects;

      3. established the PMU in form and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
            Association and appointed the project management team o f PMU including the project coordinator,
            the procurement specialist, the financial management specialist and a secretary;

      4. established a computerized accounting and financial management system in the PMU, acceptable
            to the Association; and adopted, and furnished to the Association, the procedure implementation
            manual, inform and substance acceptable to the Association.



                                                           - 1 5 -

2 6 / 0 1 ' 0 4 1 5 : 4 8     6 2 2 9 3 1 2 7 5 1                    LE REP.RESIDENT




                    2. Other [classify according to covenant rypes used inthe Legal Agr&emsnts.]



                    H. Readinessfor Implementation

                        1 aj The engineeringdesign documenk hr the first year's activities are coixplete andready for the st&
                             o f project implementation.
                        1. b) Not applicable.

                        2. Thc procurement documents ror h e first year'sactivities are comple?eandready for the s t z t of
                           project implementation.
                    ffi 3. TheProject LmplementationP1.mhasbeenappraisedandfo" to ba realistic andofsatisfactor]
                           quality.
                        4. The following i t e m are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




                    1.  Compliance with Bank Policies
                    @ 1. This project complies witi all applicable Bankpolicies.
                    02. The    following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recoinmendedfor approval. Theproj:ct complies with
                           dl other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                                               GerardA Byam                            Dianetou Gaye
                                                                                                       Acting Country Director




                                                                                         ,   . .

                                    Annex q: Project Design Summary
                   NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                                                Data Collection Strategy
           hy of Objecti
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:              Sector1country reports:       [from Goal to Bank Mission)
Deepen financial sector to     M2IGDP increases from 12        BCEAO annual reports and      Macro-economic stability is
support broad basedprivate     percent in2001 to 15 percent national statistics.             maintained ;Government
sector growth.                 in2007.                                                       Zommitted to financial sector
                                                                                             reform and to support private
                                                                                             sector development as a basis
                                                                                             for poverty reduction.



Project Development            Outcome IImpact                 Project reports:               (from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                     Indicators:
[mproved efficiency o f the    Cost o f financial              Base case analysis at the      Private financial institutions
3anking system and the         intermediation reduced          beginning o f the project and  cooperate in that effort and
insurance industry inthe       financial intermediation         surveyat the end.             DMCE and insurance division
support o f private sector and deepened by the introduction                                   dialogue with institutions.
household needs.               o f new instruments.


[ncrease in the number o f     Number ofhealthy                Audit during project           Economic growth and
financial institutions o f     micro-finance institution       preparation by auditing firms. macro-stability are
proximity and inthe clientele increases. Increase by 15         Audit at endofproject by      maintained over the life o f the
of these institutions          percent inthe membership o f micro-finance unit at MOF.        project
                               MFIs over the life o f the
                               project.


Improved capacity in the       Customer satisfactionhas         Customer base survey and      Commercial banks and
financial sector to deliver    increased over the life o f the  survey at end ofproject.      insurance companies
financial services.            project.                                                       collaborate and pay 50 percenl
                                                                                              o f the training costs.




Output from each               Output Indicators:               Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
The business environment i s
conducive to financial
institution development.

Government arrears have        Cash payments have been          Public finances statistics    The Ministryo f Finance keep:
been reduced.                  made to commercial banks                                       its commitments with respect
                               and insurance companies.                                       to debt.


Judiciary/legal framework      Seminar onjustice and            Annals o f seminar published. Political will to go ahead with
has been improved.             financial institutions to                                      the reforms.
                               improve understandingo f the
                               problems within the judiciary.




                                                            - 17-

                             Improvement in the                 Report o f the Study on          ?hejudiciary corps is
                             regulatory environment for         guarantee taking and loan        ensitized to the problems and
                             the taking o f guarantees and      recovery procedures.             ,ooperates.
                             for loan recoveries through        Amendments to national law
                             the implementationo f some of prepared.
                             the recommendations o fthe
                             study on guarantee taking and Legislation cleared by the
                             changes in legislation.            authorities to allow issuing o f
                                                                landtitles on vacant lots and
                                                                to introduce new guarantees
                                                                inrural areas.

                             Measures against delinquent        Decree published to prevent
                             borrowers taken and effective. delinquent borrowers from
                                                                participating inbids for
                                                                privatization and public
                                                                procurement.

5anks and insurance          Commercial banks deposits          BCEAO reports.                   nacro-stability i s maintained
ompanies operate more        and loans increase by 5
fficiently.                  percent over the life o f the
                             project.

                             10percent of staff ofbanks         Reports o f training sessions.
                             and insurance companies have
                             benefittedfrom training.

                             Insurancebusiness (as              Insurance market reports.
                             measuredby premia issued)
                             increases by 5 percent over
                             the life o f the project.

                             Two banks are recapitalized.       Reports o fbanking               'rivate sector fully
                                                                commission.                      :ooperative.

                             CDNKPCT restructured               Report o f the banking           3ovemment resolve to deal
                             within context o f agreed upon commission.                          withthis issue on technical
                             strategy and comply with                                            ;rounds remains unabated.
                             prudential regulation.

dicro-finance institutions   Micro finance institutions in      Audit reports.
unctioningbetter and         3iffculty restructured
lupervisory unit at Ministry 10MFIs are inspected
'fFinancestrengthened.       annually.

                             Supervisory Unit develops and Reports o f the micro-finance
                             idoptsprocedure manual with units at MOF.
                             :he technical assistance
                             xovided.

                             Yew MFIs opened.




                                                          - 1 8 -

Postal financial services       :inancia1 services subsidiary    \Jew legal framework           {upport from management
subsidiary operating            resulting from the merger o f    lludited financial statements  md unions continues. An
efficiently                   :CP and the savings bank)          iurveys.                       :xtemal supervision
                              )perational; increase by 15        llnnual reports                nechanism has been put in
                              )ercent in number o f active                                      dace.
                              ccounts.

                              Rights o f workers paid.

Improvement in the social       tecommendations o f actuarial ieport o f actuarial audit; new
security system.              adit implemented: the level        iocial security law adopted by
                              ifbenefits andcontributions        he Council o f Ministers.
                              ias been revised by Council of
                              Ainisters.
                                                                 Gnancial statements.




Project Components I          nputs: (budget for each            'roject reports:               from Components to
Sub-components:               :omponent)                                                        htputs)

Strengthening o f the           L 1.87 million
environment

Banking restructuring         ;1.61 million

Development of Financial      L4.35 million
Intermediation o f Proximity

Social security reform        i850 thousand


Capacity Building             12.42million


Project Management            i1.2 million




                                                           - 1 9 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

The project aims at improving the efficiency, reach and depth o f the Niger fmancial system. Detailed
objectives are to: (a) improve the mobilization o f savings and o f sources o f financing; (b) increase access
to financial services inurban and rural areas; (c) provide financing to SMEs; (d) improve the functioning
of the banking and insurance sectors; (e) restructure the postal financial services; (f) reform the social
security system;    and (g) build capacity. To achieve these objectives, the project has six components
(including project management).

By Component:

Project Component 1 US1.87 million
                       -

Strengtheningof the environment.(LJS$1.87 million)

Strengthening the environment i s the first priority in the financial sector reform program. Good progress
has been made on the macro-economic and budgetary fronts under the ongoing IMF program. As noted
earlier, the regulatory framework i s generally satisfactory, having been established at the regional level
(UEMOA for banks, credit establishments and micro-finance; franc zone for insurance and social security).
Supervision o f banks, credit establishments and insurance companies is equally satisfactory. There are
problems with the supervision ofmicro-fmance and these are dealt with in component 3 below.

Under this component the project will focus on: the settlement o f Government arrears, legal aspects o f
guarantee taking, some dyshnctioning o f the judiciary and the environment for SME financing.

The banking and the insurance sectors will not be fully restructured untilall Government arrears have been
settled. Total Govemment arrears to the commercial banks and the insurance companies respectively
amount to CFAF 6.0 billion and CFAF 325 million. The authorities have indicated that they will make cash
payments to settle these arrears.

On the legal front, the study on housing finance commissioned as part o f the preparation o f this project,
concluded that an important bamer to the development o f the mortgage market is the legal prohibition to
issue a title on vacant land. Without a title, a traditional mortgage cannot be issued. To by-pass this
problem, commercial banks enter into "agreements to sell the property in case o f default by the borrower".
Such agreements are not recognized by the banking commission which requires provisioning against credits
extended under such arrangements with a negative impact on the financing o f house constructions. In
addition, home buildingin rural areas is retarded by the absence o f well suited collateral. The project will
fund consultants to assist with the legislative changes requiredto allow issuing o f land titles on vacant land
and with the development o f guarantees better adapted to rural areas. Consultants will also assist with the
strengthening o f the urban and rural land registries. All these actions will contribute to the development o f a
housing finance market and should lead to more house construction.

More generally, the taking o f guarantees has been identified as problematic. A consultant funded under the
project will take stock of the existing situation and provide recommendations for reform.

The judiciary has been identified in many studies as dyshnctioning. A multi-donor reform program has
beenlaunched and is at the preparatory stage. The project will fund actions directly related to the financial



                                                      - 20 -

sector and which are not picked up by other donors. I t will finance a seminar bringing together magistrates,
lawyers, bailiffs and managers o f financial institutions to identify problems with the judiciary in the
recovery o f loans and the enforcement o f contracts and propose corrective actions. The project will also
finance  training o f magistrates, lawyers and bailiffs on financial sector issues. I t will contribute to the
modernization o f the judicial record so that financial institutions could have better references on their
potential customers.

Finally, under this component, the project will fund a consultant to conduct a study on the constraints to
SME financing andrecommend solutions. The project is also expected to accompany the implementation of
some o f these recommendations. The TDRs o f the study will ensure that potential social effects and
environmental aspects will be adequately taken into account.


I                                               Item                                               1Cost inU S dollarsI
  Support to the feasibility study to improve the judiciary record and to the renovation o f this       150,000
  record, with consultants and equipment
  Consultant to assist with the regulatory changes needed to allow the issuingo f land titles on        200,000
  vacant land.
  Support to the refonn o f the registry o f "commerce et credit mobilier", with consultants,           200,o00
  equipment and training".
  Consultant to assist with the strengthening o f urban and rural landregistries as well as the         200,000
  miningregistry and ensure that all landtransactions are registered.
  Support to the publication and diffusion o f the 3rd edition o f laws and regulation and to the       150,000
  updating o f the official gazette with consultants and training.
  Consultant to study guarantees and the guarantee taking process, distinguishing                       400,000
  between rural and urban areas and assist with the implementation o f some o f the
  recommendations.
  Training of magistrates, lawyers, bailiffs o n financial sector issues.                               250,000
  Seminar on iustice and financial institutions.                                                        120,000
  Consultant to conduct a study on the financing o f SMEs.                                              200,000
  TOTAL                                                                                                1,870,000



Project Component 2 US$l.Sl million
                        -

BankingRestructuring (US$ 1.61million)

As indicated in Annex 11, four commercial banks appear in relatively good shape. Of the four that faced
severe problems, B C N has been recapitalized and measures for internal strengthening (e.g. improvement o f
the information system, establishment o f internal controls, etc.) are being implemented. Govemment has
reached an agreement with DMI and the Islamic Development Bank for the recapitalization o f BINCI and
the operation has been completed. While the authorities and Bank staff will monitor closely the
restructuring process o f BCN and BINCI, the project will directly provide support to the restructuring o f
the two other banks, C D N and CPCT.

Credit du Niger (CDN) was established in August 1957 with the Government as a majority shareholder
and with the objective o f providing housing finance. It obtained its banlung license in 1966. It mainly
financed  the purchase o f homes by civil servants. As the government ran large salary arrears, C D N fell on



                                                      - 21 -

hardtimes and today it has negative net worth and a high operating ratio (general expenses dividedby net
banking product) o f 213 percent. An interim adrmnistrator was appointed on August 30 1999 with a
mandate to clean up the balance sheet and initiate a merger with CPCT. The proposed merger plan was
adopted by the general assemblies o f both institutions o n April 30, 2001, thus paving the way for the
Banque de 1'Habitat et du Developpement Local (BHDL). However, as indicated earlier, BCEAO rejected
the request for an "agreement" for the merged banks. CDN i s still under interim administration as new
plans are being considered. The merger option has now been definitively abandoned.

During project preparation a housing study was conducted. The study (Revue de la Politique de
Finnncement de ?Habitat nu Niger) showed that a maximum o f 20 percent o f the population has sufficient
income to borrow to build a home (and the lower half o f these 20 percent may encounter difficulty servicing
their debt). A small proportion o f the 80 percent remaining could find resources (small credits or others)
over time and house building would become a drawn out process. However, the majority o f the population
does not have a high enough income to service a debt nor to build a house over time. C D N could not cater
to the needs o f the last two groups ( the 80 percent o f the population) and other instruments to finance their
housing needs should be found. For the population that can have access to credit, the study concluded that
the commercial banks could service their needs once the legal barriers to the development o f a mortgage
market are removed (e.g. the legal difficulty surrounding the issue of titles, etc.). Inresponse, Government
argued that while this may be true theoretically, commercial banks would be unwilling to enter the
mortgage business. Bank staff urged the Government to adopt legal changes that would permit the
mortgage market to develop, to close C D N and create a fiduciary fund that would be managed by a
commercial bank for a fee to take-over the performing portfolio o f C D N (about 2400 clients for a total
credit amount of CFAF 971 million). This fimd would be owned by the Government which would define
the access rules. The bank would only bear the risk attached to mismanagement. The borrowers would have
their salary domiciled at the bank and open an account in that institution. This would have a demonstration
effect and it i s expected that after a couple o f years the commercial bank would accept to manage the
portfolio directly and issue its own mortgages. Training would be provided to the commercial for a
complement o f 5 who would be directly involved in managing the mortgage portfolio o f the fund. Four
commercial banks expressed a potential interest ininanaging the fund.

While recognizing the advantages o f the fiduciary fund, and in particular its low cost o f operation, the
authorities remained eager to keep a housing bank, but noted that such a bank would be privately owned. It
was agreed that, in a first step, the bad assets o f the C D N would be moved out into a liquidation structure
and the Government would try to privatize 90 percent o f the capital o f the restructured bank through a
state o f the art process involving an open international biding process. The new shareholders would require
approval from the banking commission as would the business plan o f the restructured institution. Should
attempts at privatization prove unsuccessful, C D N would b e placed in liquidation and its active portfolio
would be transferred to a fiduciary fimd. The project will fund assistance to the management in the interim
period (before privatization or liquidation), the advisor to the Government on privatization and other related
costs. If necessary, the project will finance the management fees o f the fiduciary h d for a period o f two
years. The project would also fundpart o f the rights o f the workers.

On its part, the Government, in the case o f a successful privatization, would have to absorb a shortfall in
assets o f about CFAF 120 million, plus some payments to workers not rstained by the new shareholders. In
case o f outright liquidation, Government would have to assume some o f the cost o f the compensation o f
laid-off workers, the reimbursement o f some depositors and payments to suppliers. The maximum would be
CFAF 650 million. In both cases the Government would have to assume a CFAF 1,212 million debt to
BCEAO.




                                                       - 22 .

Finally, Government will also address the needs o f the 80 percent o f the population that does not have
access to credit to acquire a home. To find appropriate solutions, it will prepare a global financing strategy
for social housing and submit it to a round-table o f donors to obtain their support. The project will finance
the preparation o f the strategy as well as the round-table and a part o f the implementation o f the newly
defined social housing finance strategy. The strategy should take into account potential social and
environmental aspects o f the construction o f new dwellings.

L a Caisse de Pr@taux CollectivitCs Territoriales (CPCT) was established inMarch 1970 with a capital
held by local communities (94 percent) and the State (6 percent) with the objective to provide financing to
local communities. As these communities were facing hard times, CPCT found itself with a large
non-performing portfolio (close to 85 percent o f the total) resultingin negative net worth o f close to CFAF
700 million. Its operating ratio (operating expenses divided by net banking product) is a very high 500
percent. An interim administrator was appointed on August 30 1999 with a mandate to clean the balance
sheet and prepare a merger with CDN. This merger did not see the light o f the day and the interim
administration i s continuing.

A study conducted during credit preparation (Stratkgie de Financement des Collectivitks Locales: Le R61e
de la Caisse de PrCt atix Collectivith Territoriales) noted the need for a structure dedicated to the
financing o f local communities. It indicated that such structure would likely be publicly-owned as the
private sector could not be counted upon to enter into this field. The authorities agreed to restructure CPCT
through a split into a good bank and into a liquidation structure. Lending by the new structure will only
resume once the local communities have regained credit- worthiness a few years down the road as the
decentralization process is implemented. The project will finance the consultant that will assist the interim
administrator with the split of CPCT as well as some equipment for the new bank. The cost to the
Government o f recapitalizing this bank i s estimated at CFAF 1.5 billion for a capital o f CFAF 1 billion.
This recapitalization could be done over time. Only CFAF 300 million is currently required by regulation
which would require from the Government CFAF 846 million. Only the minimum i s currently entered as a
cost to Government. (It i s important to note that outright liquidation would cost about CFAF 1.9 billion
given the large number o f deposits o f local communities that would need to be reimbursed).

I           Item                                                                    I          U S dollars        I
Technical assistance to the management o f CDN inthe interim period                             150,000
Adviser to the Government on privatization o f CDN                                              200,000
Other costs relatedto privatization                                                             80,000
Management fee for the fiduciary account                                                        150,000
Preparation o f the social housing finance strategy                                             200,000
Round-table o f donors on this strategy                                                         80,000
Start o f implementation o f this strategy                                                      200,000
Contribution to the legal rights o f CDN employees                                              250,000
Consultant to assist with restructuring o f CPCT                                                100.000
IEauiDment and modifications o f Dremises o f CPCT                                  I           200.000            I
/Total                                                                              I          1.610.000          I

It should be noted that the stabilization o f the financial sector includes also the insurance sector. Important
measures have already been taken in that sector. As described in Annex 11, three insurance companies
have been recapitalized with an accompanying change in ownership. This should be followed by internal
restructuring. It befalls C I M A and the Direction of Insurance within the Ministry o f Finance to monitor
closely the developments within the sector. IDA supervision missions o f the project will maintain close


                                                      - 23 -

contact with the Direction o f Insurance.

Project Component 3 US$ 4.36 million
                        -

DevelopmentofFinancialIntermediationofProximity (US$4.355 anillion)

Financial intermediation o f proximity i s crucial to the development o f rural areas and o f more isolated
neighborhoods in urban areas. Through the mobilization o f small savings and the provision o f small
financing, it contributes to the fight against poverty. Two complementary categories o f institutions could
play a major role: the micro-finance institutions and the postal financial services.

There are 178 micro-financeinstitutions in Niger. They have developed in a rather haphazard way, often
supported by donors. The micro-finance industry is regulated by the PARMEC Law, a regional law.
However, the national Ministries o f Finance are responsible for the on-and off-site supervision o f
micro-finance institutions. In 2001 the Government adopted a national strategy for the development o f
micro-finance and implementation i s starting under the PDSFR with IFAD as the main player and several
other donors (mainly, the French and the German).


Two important micro-finance institutions, TaYmako and the Mouvement des Caisses Populaires d'Epargne
et de Credit (MCPEC) have faced severe difficulties. The former, victim of embezzlement and poor
management, had to face a rush on deposits in August 2001 Subsequently, many borrowers suspended the
service o f their debt. While its liquidity position has been restored, it is now suffering from a negative net
worth, the result o f provisioning on its non-performing portfolio. The European Union has indicated its
intention to assist with the restructuring o f this financial cooperative. With respect to MCPEC, it is the top
layer of the organization that i s facing serious difficulties, while it appears that the individual member units
are not all affected. These difficulties are raising a red flag. Indeed, other micro-finance institutions may be
facing difficulties, but because o f the weakness o f the micro-finance unit at the Ministry o f Finance, these
have gone undetected. The authorities agreed to contract with consultants to urgently conduct financial and
organizational audits o f the main micro-finance institutions whose downfall could have a systemic impact
on the industry. These audits are financed under the PPF. The project will fund the implementation o f some
recommendations o f the audits. (Such audits were not included inthe PDSFR).

Reinforcing the micro-finance unit at the Ministry i s equally urgent. It i s weak in terms o f staff and
equipment. Its weakness i s compounding the problems o f micro-finance institutions. The unit i s not able to
detect the difficulties faced by MFIs nor require timely corrective measures. The project will provide
assistance (which is not given under the PDSFR) in the form of: (a) an expatriate assistant in post for two
years at the unit with the mission of; (i) organize the unit, defining its work program and developing
                                          helping
procedure manuals; (ii)conducting with unit staff, on-and off-site supervision; and (iii)       transferring skills
to unit staff; (b) the purchase o f equipment; (c) a participation to the costs o f supervision; and (d) training
of unit staff (see project component 5 below).

ONPE was established in 1996 as a result o f the split o f the telecom company from the post office. It
brought under one roof the postal and the postal financial services including the postal savings bank (caisse
nationale d'epargne) and the postal checlung services (comptes de chkques postaux). The postal savings
bank has been closed since 1992 with CFAF 4.1 billion in frozen deposits. The checking services (CFAF
4.8 billion in deposits) are currently mainly used as a channel for the payment o f salaries to civil servants.
There is a need to relaunch on new foundations the financial services activities o f the post office. A frst
principle is to have a complete separation o f the management o f the post office and o f the financial
services. One important cause o f the downfall o f the postal savings bank was the unicity o f budget in the



                                                       - 24 -

post office and the fact that deposits were used to fund daily postal operations (salaries, procurement..).
The only way to ensure a true separation o f the management of postal services and o f fmancial services i s
to have two separate legal entities with independent management.


Consequently the strategy i s to split the fmancial services from the post office and establish them as a
subsidiary o f the post office. This sub, the postal bank, will have a light structure as it will use the post
office premises and post office staff to deliver its products. I t will pay the post office for the services it
uses. I t will have its own accounting and information system, its own balance sheet, i t s own business plan
and marketing strategy. The split will require the elaboration o f new statutes and procedures, the
establishment o f an opening balance sheet, a budget, etc. To constitute the opening balance sheet, deposits
from the postal savings bank and from the checking center will be placed on the liability side. Capital will
be provided by the Government in form o f cash. Some equipment and building may boost the assets o f the
financial services sub. The shortfall in assets against the capital and liabilities will be filled by Government
bonds, The new subsidiary will also be organized according to the state o f the art (intemal structure,
information and computer systems, intemal controls). The project is supporting the technical assistance
needed to create the new subsidiary (providing legal, accounting, computer, organizational human
resources expertise) ,the procurement o f computer and telecommunications equipment as well as the hiring
o f an international adviser to assist with the managemeqt o f the new entity. Good progress has already
been made with the support of two PPFs. Training o f postal staff i s considered incomponent 5.

As indicated earlier, the new subsidiary will use the post office to deliver its financial products. Its
efficiency will be constrained by that o f the post office, thus the need to also restructure the post office. A
global approach i s favored in order to improve the general organization o f the postal sector and make it
more conducive to growth. The legal and regulatory framework will be enhanced allowing a better
safeguarding o f the postal universal service as well as the definition o f an adequate funding mechanism to
cover universal service obligations supported by the post office. The project will finance the consultants
required to restructure the post office and to deal with the issues o f competition and universal service. It
will fund computer and telecommunications equipment. It will contribute to the payment o f the rights o f the
workers dismissed during the process o f restructuring the post office and creating the financial services
subsidiary. IDA'Scontribution i s assessed at US$1,600,000 together with a government payment o f US$2
million. A reinsertion program will be established. Training o f remaining postal workers is considered in
component 5. Government has also set aside at the central bank a fund o f CFAF 2.4 billion (US$3.8
million) to capitalize the financial services subsidiary. This capital, paid in cash, will provide a solid
cushion to satisfy requests for withdrawals which may come right after the opening o f the financial services
subsidiary, as the deposits of the former postal savings bank are unfrozen.

               Item                                                                U S dollars
Assistance to the implementation of some                                             200,000
recommendations o f the audit o fmicro-finance
institutions
Equipment for the micro-finance unit at the MoF                                     200,000
(including a 4x4 and a compact car)
Expatriate consultant for the micro-finance unit for                                280,000
two years
Other costs o f the micro-fmance unit                                                150,000
Consultant for the restruchlring o f the post office                                 200,000
Equipment for the post office                                                       245,000
Telecommunications equipment for the post office                                    500>000



                                                     - 25 -

Consultant for the establishment o f the post office                              200,000                      I
financial services subsidiarv
Computers for the financial services subsidiary                                   500,000
Expatriate consultant inpost at the financial services                            280:OOO
subsidiary
Contribution to the payment o f the rights o f postal                            1,600,000
workers
Total                                                                           4,355,000


Project Component 4 US$0.85 million
                       -

Social security reform (US$0.85 million)

The social security institution (CNSS) offers pension, workers compensation, family allowances and social
services. I t is facing serious difficulties; it i s illiquid, suffers from high administrative costs and has
difficulty in making all the due payments. While it covers less than 10 percent o f the population (only
salaried workers from the formal sector have access to CNSS), social protection cannot be extended
without first putting back CNSS on its feet. Indeed, CNSS must be the basis from which coverage i s
increased.

A first step is to conduct an actuarial audit which will indicate how to restore the long term sustainability
o f CNSS. (the existing financial disequilibrium on a cash as well as on an actuarial basis puts a heavy
burden on public finances). The project will fund the audit and assist CNSS with the implementation o f
some o f its recommendations (including legislative modifications to contributions and benefits) and
contribute to the payment o f part o f the rights o f dismissed workers. The downsizing i s necessary as, to a
large extent, the high administrative costs are attributable to overstaffing. IDA'scontribution i s estimated at
US$600,000 against a Government outlay of USSl.5 million.



              Item                                                                          U S dollars
Actuarial audit                                                                               150,000
Assistance to the implementation o f some recommendations o f the                             100,000
actuarial audit
Contribution to the payment o f rights o f dismissed workers                                  600,000
Total                                                                                         850,000


Project Component 5 US$2.42 million
                       -

Capacity building (lZ82.42 million)

The Bank financial sector report emphasized the very low capacity in the financial sector at all levels. This
has also beenrecognized by the authorities and the institutions themselves. This explains the large capacity
building component. At times (in the case o f commercial banks and insurance companies) the capacity
building is directed at private companies. IDA's support can be justified by the important externalities to
the sector and the economy at large resulting from this capacity building. Indeed, the lack o f capacity has
been identified as one o f the main hindrance to the development o f the financial sector and the lack o f



                                                      - 26 -

 financing o f the economy. Inaddition, the recipients would have to assume half o f the costs o f the training.
 (They would not have engaged in it if they had to pay the full cost). Commercial banks and insurance
 companies are expected to contribute USS800,OOO to the cost o f training their personnel.

 According to the preliminary conclusions o f a consultant hiredunder the PPF, training at commercial banks
 would cover, inter alia: credit (all the steps from the analysis o f a request until the monitoring o f the loan
 once extended, including the talung o f guarantees), intemal control, cash management, accounting (and in
 particular the accounting plan), project financing, risk analysis, foreign exchange riskmanagement, interest
 risk management, guarantees, dealing with the customer, computer and information systems, legal and
 judicial issues. As far as insurance companies are concemed training would deal with: accounting,
 re-insurance, managerial issues, cash management, analysis o f commercial and industrial risks, information
  systems, foreign exchange risk management, human resources management, and sales techniques.

 The project will fimd training for commercial banks and insurance companies (half o f the costs), training o f
 staff at the micro-finance unit within the Ministry o f Finance, at the post office, at the postal financial
 services subsidiary. I t will also fund a resident adviser on fmancial sector issues to the Minister o f Finance.
  Support will also be given to the bankers' association which plays a key role in the development of the
  sector. Contribution to the reinsertion programs for the dismissed workers is included in this section as
 capacity building.




                                 Item                                            U S dollars
  Training o f commercial banks staff                                              500,000
  Traininn o f insurance commnies staff                                            300.000
IExDatriate adviser to the Minister of Finance                      I              280.000                 I
 Assistance to D M C E (equipment, training)                                       140,000
 Assistance to the direction o f insurance (consultant, training,                  200,000
 eauinment)
ITraining o f staff o f micro-finance unit                          I              200.000                 I
  Training for the post office                                                     200,000
  Training for the postal financial services subsidiary                            200,000
  Assistance to the bankers association (training equipment)                      100,000
 Consultant to establish and follow-up the reinsertion program                     300,000
 for the emdovees o f CDN. ONPE and CNSS.
I TOTAL                                                             I             2,420,000                I


  Project Component 6 US$1.25 million
                         -

  Project management&S$1.245 million)

  The project management unit is composed o f a coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial
 management specialist and support staff. The project will cover salaries, two vehicles, some training, some
  equipment and rent. The salaries and the rent are for the four years o f the life o f the project. The baseline
  and the follow-up surveys to assess the impact o f the project on the economy and the beneficiaries have
 been affected to this component.



                                                       - 27 -

              Item                                          US dollars
  Salaries o f staff                                        800.000
  Training                                                  40,000
  Two vehicles                                              50.000
I Eauipment    and furniture                           I    115.000       I
I Baseline survey and two other follow-ut, ones        I    80,000        I
IRent                                                  I    160,000       I




                                                - 28 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                NIGER: FINANCIALSECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                                                                                    Local                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                      -..
                                                                                                 US $million                                  US $million
Strengthening o f the environment                                                                    0.27                   1.60                      1.87
Banking restructming                                                                                 3.13                   1.58                      4.71
Developinent of fniancial intemirdiation o fproximity                                                7.96                  2.06                     10.02
Social security reform                                                                                1.20                 0.70                       1.90
Capacity building                                                                                     1.20                 2.02                       3.22
Project manageiiient unit                                                                             1.06                 0.19                       1.25
Project preparation advance                                                                          0.30                  0.65                       0.95
Audit                                                                                                0.50                  0.00                       0.50
Unallocated                                                                                          0.30                  0.70                       1.oo
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                  15.92                 9.50                     25.42
Physical Contingencies                                                                               0.00                  0.00                       0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.00                  0.00                      0.00
                                          Total Project Costs1                                       15.92                  9.50                    25.42

                                    Total Financing Required                                         15.92                  9.50                    25.42

                                                                                                    Local                                           Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                           i US $million                                   US Smillion
Goods                                                                                                   0.22                     1.84                     2.06
Operating costs                                                                                        12.35                    0.00                     12.35
Consultant Services                                                                                     1.oo                    4.48                      5.48
Training and seminars                                                                                   1.25                     1.83                     3.08
Audits                                                                                                  0.50                    0.00                      0.50
Refinancing of project preparation advance                                                              0.30                    0.65                      0.95
unallocated                                                                                             0.30                    0.70                      1.00
                                                          Total Project Costs1                         15.92                    9.50                     25.42

                                                 Total Financing Required                              15.92                    9.50                     25.12


  I
   Idciirifinblc taxcs and duties arc 0 (USSm)and the tot31project cosi; iii't oftaxes, is 25.42 (USSm). Tiwefore, the project cost slidring ratio is 58.22% o f
  total project cost net o f riutes.




                                                                     - 29 -

                                  Annex 4: Summary of benefits and costs
                NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

W h i l e the project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify with any degree o f precision, the following points
should help inassessing the contribution o f the project.

Summary of benefits and costs

Benefits will be found at all levels:

      (a) A more efficient financial sector will contribute to improved savings mobilization and availability
      o f financing. This will foster econoinic growth and private sector development.

      (b) The increased economic activity and the improved health o f financial institutions will contribute to
      increase Government fiscal revenue and reduce spending. (no longer a need to subsidize loss making
     public financial institutions).

      (c) Clients of commercial banks and insurance companies will receive much better service fonn these
      institutions as their personnel i s better trained.

      (d) With better trained personnel and regained financial solidity, both banks and insurance companies
      will diversify their products, another direct benefit to their clients. This in turn will have a positive
      impact on private sector development and economic growth ingeneral.

      (e) A restructured micro-finance network and a reborn postal bank will provide access to financial
      services to a part o f the population that had been excluded heretofore. This will foster the development
      of rural areas and o f small enterprises; it will also contribute to the well-being o f these populations,
      improved education andhealth. It will have a defmite impact on poverty alleviation.

      (f) A social security institution that has returned to financial equilibrium, particularly in the long run
      will improve the protection o fthe elderly, o f the young and o fthose that have suffered froin an accident
      at work.

      (g) The implementation o f the housing finance strategy will contribute to improve the housing o f the
      Nigerian population.


On the cost side, every effort has been made to minimize the outlays o f Government or private sector
partners.


      (i)The split (scissionsiliquidations) used in the restructuring are less expensive than a global
      restructuring or an outright liquidation.

      (ii)Thetrainingplanswilluseexistingtraininginstitutionsandlocalonthejobtrainingbyopposition
      to expensive visits abroad.

      (iii) restructuringofthepostofficeanditsfinancialservices subsidiarywillcalluponstateofthe
            The
      art practices that will minimize costs.


Overall, the net economic and social fall-outs (interm o f increased growth, private sector development,
development o f rural areas, improved housing) definitely outstrip the cost o f borrowing (at IDA terms) to
the Government for this project.




                                                          - 30 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
              NIGER: FlNANClAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                       Years Ending



                          I Year1 I Year2    1  year3  I year4  I year5  I Year6  I year7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs             0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
 Recurrent Costs               0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs            0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
           interest during     0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
              construction
Total Financing                0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0

Financing
   IBRDlIDA                    1.5       3.5        4.0      4.0      1.8     0.0      0.0
  Government                   1.5       2.0        2.7      2.5      1.1     0.0      0.0
      Central                  0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
      Provincial               0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
  Co-financiers                0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0       0.2        0.4      0.2      0.0     0.0      0.0
Other                          0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing        3.0       5.7        7.1      6.7      2.9     0.0      0.0

Main assumptions:




                                            -31 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
              NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

Procurement

General

1.       A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998, which
found that in general national procedures for the procurement o f works, goods and services are acceptable
to IDA subject to a few amendments. So far the findings o f the CPAR remain valid. N o special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), since Niger's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried
out in accordance with Niger's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that they
assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives o f the Bank
Guidelines.

Guidelines

2.       Goods financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999) (The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Evaluation Report
will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out using the Bank's SBD
with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and notification",
"currencies o f bid and payment", "settlement o f disputes", and deletion o f the domestic preference
provision, etc. Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i)     methods used in the evaluation o f bids
and the award o f contracts are made known to all bidders and not applied arbitrarily; (ii) bidder i s
                                                                                                any
given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission o f bids; (iii)bid evaluation
criteria and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin i s
granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidderin accordance with predetermined and transparent methods; (vii) bid
evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing
the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable.

3.       Consultant services contracts fmanced by IDA credit will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Standard Request for Proposal, as
developed by the Bank, will be usedfor the appointment o f Consultants.

Advertising

4.       A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared and published in the United Nations
Development Business at time o f negotiations to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB.
Publication o f a GPN in the national press or official gazette i s also required for NCB. The program
elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are
summarized in TablesA1 and B below.



                                                     - 32 -

ProcurementCapacityAssessment

5.       A procurement capacity assessment was carried out as part o f the institutional analysis prior to the
appraisal mission. As a result, an action plan was agreed upon to address areas where the existing
structures still need to be strengthened to meet performance criteria for PMR-based disbursement. The
action plan includes: (i)the hiring o f a procurement analyst for the Project Management Unit (PMU): (ii)    a
procurement planning and contract management system integrated in the computerized financial
management system to be installed at the central project management unit (PMU), and (iii)the
reorganization o f the filing of procurement-related documents.

Procurementplanning

6.       Draft procurement plans have been prepared during appraisal for all procurement to be carried out
at the national level for the first year activities. The final plans will be submitted to IDA before
Effectiveness. The exact mix o f procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the annual
reviews between the PMU, line ministries and IDA, where a draft procurement plan for the following
financial year will be presented and agreed upon. The detailed procurement plans for subsequent years will
be developed and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information on
goods and consulting services under the project as well as the timing o f each milestone in the procurement
process. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision missions and by the extemal technical audits.

ProcurementStatus and ProposedArrangements

7.       Procurement would be managed by the P M U which will include a procurement specialist and
would use consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. The recruitment o f all positions inthe PMU
should be acceptable to IDA.

8.       Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions. The P M U would be required to
monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be exceeded during the life o f project
implementation.

9.       Project Implementation Manuel (PIM). The P I M i s being prepared. It will serve as a practical
guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DCA. I t will include: (i)     procedures for calling for bids,
selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii)internal organization for supervision and control,
including operational guidelines defming the role o f the executing agency and reporting requirements; and
(iii)disbursement procedures. The P I M will be adopted before effectiveness.

10.      Government has reviewed and agreed with IDA on standard bidding documents to be used under
N C B procedures for Goods. The Government has given assurances that it will: (i)             use the Project
Implementation Manual the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection o f consultants, and the
Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (ii)   apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above;
(iii) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to
compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all
procurement-related documents; and (iv) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment o f the
effectiveness o f bidding procedures and perfonnance, as they relate to the program's procurement
experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the current procedures
to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's


                                                     - 33 -

Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.

Procurement methods

Goods

11.           Procurement o f computer equipment and telecoinmunications equipment grouped into bidpackages
o f US$200,000 or more will be procured through ICB. Other office equipment and material (fax,
telephone, photocopier) o f CPCT, DMCE, banker association, micro-finance unit and the project
management unit locally available at economical price up to an aggregate amount o f USSO.10 million will
follow N C B procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods that cannot be grouped into bidpackages o f USS20,OOO
up to an aggregate of US$140,000 may be procured through shopping according to procedures acceptable
to IDA. The Borrower would award the contract, on the basis o f written solicitation issued to at least three
qualified suppliers, following evaluation o f bids received in writing from such qualified suppliers. The
award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price quotation for the required goods, provided he
s t i l l has the experience and resources to execute the contract successfully.

P r i o r Review (Goods)

12.          All ICB contracts financed by IDA will be subject to IDA'Sprior review procedures inaccordance
to paragraph 2 o f Appendix 1o f the Guidelines (see Table B below).

Consultants Services

13.           The consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA would be for the following types o f
activities: financial environment reform, banking restructuring, development o f financial intermediation,
social security reform, capacity building, audits. The PMU (Project Management Unit) would ensure that
procurement notices are widely publicized to get candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals). The
following selection procedures would be used:

          (a) Quality-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts for f m s would be awarded
         through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure that priority i s given to the
         identification o f suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated at or less
         than US$lOO,OOO equivalent may be comprised entirely o f national consultants (in accordance with the
         provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number o f
         qualified individual or f m s (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed
         interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.

          (b) Consultant's Qualification Selection may be used for consulting services for research, and
         targeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to work with
         vulnerable groups and proven track records would be recruited. The amount o f the contract i s
         estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO. This method may also be used for the selection o f training
         institutions when training cost i s equivalent or less than USS100,OOO per contract.

         (c) For financial and technical audits, the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will be the most
          appropriate method.

          (d) Single-source Selection may be used for services costing less than USS10,OOO per contract up to
          an aggregate o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent.


                                                          - 34 -

    (e) Consultants for services meeting the requirements o f Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines will
    be selected under the provisions for the Selection o f Individual Consultants method. Individual
    Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of curriculum vitae against job description
    requirements o f those expressing interest in the assignment, or those having been identified directly by
    the Borrower. Consultants hiredunder the project cannot be civil servants.

Prior Review (Consultants)

14.     All consulting contracts costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for f m s and all individual
consulting contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA prior
review in accordance with paragraph 2 o f Appendix 1 o f the Guidelines (see Table B below). All other
contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix 1 o f the guidelines.
Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review
thresholds are subject to IDA review.

Training, Workshops, and Conferences.

15.     The total cost of these activities is estimated at US$2.26 million equivalent for the project.
Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be camed out on the basis o f approved
annual programs that will identifL the general framework o f training and similar activities for the year,
including the nature o f traininglstudy tourslworkshops, the number o f participants, and cost estimates.


16.     All terms of reference and all single-source selection of consultants would be subject to IDA prior
review. Other procurement subject to IDA review would include: annual training plans for local and
overseas training and workshops, including terms o f reference and estimated budgets. All out of country
training will be subject to IDA approval.

17.     The Government has given assurances that it will take the necessary measure to ensure that
procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:


Procurement Phases                                 Maximum number o f weeks
Preparation o f biddingdocuments                   4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by.bidders                     4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bidevaluation                                      2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature o f Contracts                            2
Payments




                                                    - 35 -

  Procurement methods (Table A)



                      Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                     (US$ million equivalent)




11. Works                      I     0.00        I     0.00      j   0.00     j  0.00   I  0.00      1
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.82              0.10          0.14        0.00      2.06
                                    (1.82)            (0.10)        (0.14)      (0.00)    (2.06)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00         4.97         1.01      5.98
Consultant services                 (0.00)            (0.00)        (4.97)      (0.00)    (4.97)
4. Training and seminars             0.00              0.00         2.26         0.82      3.08
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (2.26)      (0.00)    (2.26)
5. PPF Refinancing                   0.00              0.00         0.95         0.00      0.95
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.95)      (0.00)    (0.95)
6. Operating costs                   0.00              0.00         3.56         8.79      12.35
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (3.56)      (0.00)    (3.56)
Unallocated                          0.00              0.00          1.oo        0.00      1.oo
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (1.OO)      (0.00)    (1.OO)
    Total                            1.82              0.10         12.88       10.62     25.42
                                    (1.82)            (0.10)       (12.88)      (0.00)    (14.80)




                                             - 36 -

                     Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




A. Firms                   2.84      0.00       0.00     0.50       0.00     0.20       1.01      4.55
                          (2.84)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.50)     (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (3.54)
B. Individuals             0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.43      1.00      0.00      1.43
                          (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.43)     (1.OO)    (0.00)    (1.43)
                  Total    2.84      0.00      0.00      0.50       0.43      1.20      1.01      5.98
                          (2.84)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.50)     (0.43)    (1.20)    (0.00)    (4.97)
I
 Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS = Quality-based Selection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
               Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                 - 37 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




 I.Works

 2. Goods                            Above 200,000                        ICB                        Prior review
                                      Below 200,000                      NCB                          Postreview


                                    Less than 50,000                  SHOPPING                        Post review


 3. Services
     Firms                           Above 100,000                      QCBS                         Prior review
                                   less than 100,000                  QCBSILC                         Postreview


 Individual                           Above 50,000                      3 cvs                        Prior review
                                     equal to 50,000                    3 cvs                         Post review
                                        or < 50,000
                                   Less than 10,000                   Individual                      Post review
                                                                     Single Source

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 70 percent of total costs
                           Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
       Frequency of procurementsupervision missions proposed:               One every 6 months
                                                                            (includes special procurement supelvision for
                                                                            post-reviewlaudits)


 '
~




  Thresholds generally differ by couiitry and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Iinplement
  Procurement"and contact the Regioiial Procurement ildviser for guidance.




                                                       - 38 -

              Annex S(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSlSTAMCE PROJECT

Financial Manaoement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment

An assessment was conducted o fthe Direction de la Monnnie, du Cridit et de I'Epargne (DMCE), and the
Direction generale de I'Economie et des Refovmes at the Ministry o f Finance under which the project falls
administratively to: (a) determine ifboth units have acceptable procedures o f fmancial management interm
o f intemal and extemal controls and o f management o f financial information,                  and (ii)make
recommendations on how to minimize fiduciary risk. Only a summary o f the assessment i s presented here.
The original assessment i s inthe project files.

The D M C E and DGER are technical entities o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economy (MFE) each with an
administrative and financial service. The assessment o f the capacity of financial management o f D M C E
within DGER at the MFE reveals four components o f fiduciary risk: (a) the inadequate organizational
framework at MFE to manage resources from foreign origin; (b) the paucity o f a posteriori administrative
controls; (c) the lack o f financial mformation on ongoing operations; and (d) the too low level o f budgetary
allocations

The inadequate organizational framework. Management problems originate from the lack o f salary
motivations, the absence o f task descriptions, the lack o f systemto assess the performance o f staff and the
lack o f an adequate training plan. These problems are the cause o f the low productivity o f agents and the
departure o f competent personnel from the public service. In addition, there are n o manuals o f
administrative, financial and accounting procedures.

The paucity of a posteriori administrative controls. The a posteriori administrative controls which
should be conducted by the Inspection Ghzirule des Finances (IGF) and the Inspection Gknkrale d'Etut
(IGE) are non existent at the level of the DMCE. There has not been a single visit by IGE and the last IGF
visit dates back to 1994. However, the fiduciary risk which this may cause is moderated by the existence
o f an a priori control exerted by the financial controllers within the public expenditure circuit.

Absence of information on the execution of financial operations. Quarterly or semestrial statements o f
budgetary execution are not available. This prevents taking corrective measures to ensure the correctness o f
expenditures. Inaddition there i s no computerized integration o f the expenditure circuit which makes it very
difficult to monitor the engagements and the payments at the level o f MFE. Public accounting is still
manual; there is a quasi total absence o f computer equipment in D M C E and DGER.

Inadequate operating credits. Operating credits are insufficient. In addition they are not liberated in a
timely fashion causing cash problems.

System to be put in place. In view o f the above, the management o f the project will not be left to the
DMCE, DGER or even MFE. An independent project management unit will be established. The Project
will be a non profit independent entity with a juridical personality and financial and administrative
autonomy. The following will be put inplace:

    0    A supervisory committee will supervise and coordinate the activities of the project and be
         composed o f (a) a representative o f the Ministry o f Finance; (b) a representative o f the social
         security refonn committee; (c) a representative o f ONPE; (d) a representative o f the Ministry o f


                                                      - 39 -

         Justice; (e) a representative o f the commercial banks; (0 a representative o f the insurance
         companies; (g) a representative o f BCEAO; and (g) the coordinator o f the project. It will provide
         the broad directions and work closely with the coordinator o f the project.

         A project management unit responsible for the day to day operations o f the project, composed o f a
         coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist and a secretary. It will be
         located within the Ministry o f Finance.

         Four executing agencies (Ministry o f Finance, Ministry o f Justice, the post office and the social
         security reform committee) with only technical responsibilities.

         A manual o f administrative, financial and accountingprocedures.

         The opening o f a special account in a commercial bank in Niger to be managed by the project
         implementation unit.

         A computerized information and management system with a program o f administrative
         management financial and accounting with monitoring capabilities. It will be installed according to
         the new Bank integrated management system and adapted to the specific requirements o f the
         project.

         The recruitment o f an auditing firm.

FinancialReporting

Separate fmancial statements will be prepared for the project. They will comprise: (i)statement o f source
                                                                                       a
and application o f Funds for the project during the current financial year and cumulative since the start o f
the project; and (ii) a balance sheet. These two financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition,
the project management unit will submit biannual reports using the FMR models including financial
reports, physical progress reports and procurement/contracts reports, within 45 days of the end o f the
reporting period.

2. Audit Arrangements

The financial statements o f the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports o f
reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months o f the end o f the audited period.
The auditor will provide an opinion on: (i)the project financial statements (statement o f Source and
Application o f Funds and Balance Sheet); (ii)  the statement o f expenditures (SOE); (iii) special account
                                                                                         the
(SA); and (iv) the project account.

The auditor will also issue a separate management report on intemal and operational procedures outlining
any recommendations for improving intemal accounting controls and operational procedures identified as a
result o f the financial statement audit.




                                                    - 40 -

3. DisbursementArrangements

  Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

           Expenditure Category             I Amount     in US$million 1        Financing Percentage        ,
                                            I


1 Goods and eouiument                       I            2.06             1    100% foreim and 70% local      1
  Consultant services                                    4.97                  85% foreign and 80% local
  Training and seminars                                  2.26                           100%
 Refunding o f Droiect ureparation advance               0.95                        Amount due
IOuerating costs                            I            3.56             I              90%                I
 Unallocated                                             1.oo

 Total Project Costs with Bank                           14.80
  Financing

 Total                                                   14.80



  Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Disbursement for all expenditures will be against full documentation, except for items o f expenditures
under contract below the value o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent for goods, USS100,000 for consulting f m s and
US$50,000 for individual consultants, training and incremental operating costs which will be claimed on
the basis o f Statements o f expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by
the project management unit and will be readily accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision missions
and external auditors.

  Special account:
To facilitate project implementation, the Government will open a special account inCFAF in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be CFAF 700 million
which will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, IDA will deposit an
amount representing 50 percent o f the authorized allocation (i.e CFAF 350 million) into the Special
Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly or more frequently as needed. Further
deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documents. The maximum allocation will remain at CFAF 350 million until the aggregate
amount of payments and the outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association is equal or
exceeds the equivalent o f SDR 4 million.

A project account will be opened to receive the counterpart funds from the Government and the first
payment will correspond to the first six months o f activity o f the project.




                                                    - 4 1-

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             NIGER: FlNANClAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



  Time taken io prepare the project(months)              30                                   38
  First Bank mission (identification)                    12/04/2000                            12/04/2000
1 Appraisal mission departure                   I        04/16/2003               I           0411612003     I
1 Negotiations                                  I        04/16/2003               I           04/25/2003     I
/Planned Date of Effectiveness                  I        04/30/2004               I

Prepared by:
Andre Ryba




Preparation assistance:
Sheela Reddi

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
          Name                                           Speciality
 Djibrilla Adamou Issa                   Financial Sector Specialist
 Ainadou Ibrahim                         Economist
 Yao Wottor                              Procurement Specialist
 IsabelleNgoc DungAndress                Senior Informatics Specialist (post office restructuring)
 MamadouYaro                             Financial Management Specialist
 Geoffrey Bergen                         Niger Country Manager
 AnnRennie                               Lead Financial Sector Specialist, Peer Reviweri Quality Control
 Jo Ann Paulson                          Lead Financial Sector Specialist, Peer RevieweriQuality Control
 Hans Wabnitz                            Senior Counsel
 Renee Desclaux                          Finance Officer
 Vincent Turbat                          Niger Country Manager




                                                 - 42 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File"
            NIGER: FlNANClAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Implementation Planhas beenprepared.

5. Bank Staff Assessments

Study on local community finance
Study on housing finance
Audit o fmajor inicrofinance institutions
Study on training requirement o f commercial banks and insurance companies staff
Financial sector review prepared by Bank staff
Financial sector review prepared by the authorities
Review o f Financial Management Capacity o f Borrower

C. Other


*Including electronic files




                                                   - 43 -

                                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        NIGER: FlMANClAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                                                 27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                             Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                      and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO61209      2004 Basic Educaiion                                     0.00       5.62      36.29       0.00     0.00     30.34        0.00      0 00

PO65991      2003 Niger: Community Action Program                     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     35.61        2.04      0 00

PO71612      2003 Multisect. STliHlViAIDS Prog.                       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     26.15        1.50      0.00

PO72996      2002 Niger:Private Irrigation Promotion                  0.00      38.72       0.00       0.00     0.02     42.69       12.92      0.00

PO61558      2001 WATER SECTOR PROJECT                                0.00      48.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     45.22       11 45      0.00

PO58730      2000 Niger.Agro-pastoral Export Promot. Pro]             0.00      10.35       0.00       0.00     0.00      5.21        0.92      0.00

PO51272      1999 PRIVATIZ./REG.REFORM                                0.00       18.60      0.00       0.00     0.00      9.97        9.26      7 89
PO01999      1997 Health Sect. Dev. Program                           0.00      40 00       0.00       0.00     0.00      0.94        3.55      3.80

                                                          Total:     0.00      161.29      36.29     0.00       0.02    196.13       41.64      11.70




                                                                    NIGER
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                          Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                                 June 30 - 2003
                                                              InMillions USDollars


                                                                                    Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                                 IFC                                      IFC
     FY Approval                  Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic


                                           Total Portfolio:             0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00



                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment

     FY Approval                 Company                                    Loan       Equity         Quasi       Partic



                                Total Pending Commitment:                   0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00




                                                                     - 44 -

                                                 Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                   NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                                                  Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan   Low-
                                                          Niger  Africa income     1
                                                                                  I Developmentdiamond`
2002
Population, mid-year(miilions)                             11 5    688    2,495                     Liie expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US.$)                          170    450     430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            2 1    306    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                             ,I
                                                                                             -I-i-
Population ("9)                                             3 4     2.4     1.9
Labor force (%)                                             3 3     2.5     2.3     GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                   ~


                                                                                    per                                     primary
Most recent estimate(latest year available, 1996-02)                                                         1           enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopuiationbelow nationalpoverty line)                                I                          I
                                                                                    capita
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                       22      33      30   !
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             46      46     59                             -
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                    148     105       81
Child malnutrition (% ofchildran under 5)                    40                           Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)           59      58      76
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age f5+)                          83      37      37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)        35      86      95     n;axr~'m"iger    _ _ ~    Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                     42      92     103
    Femaie                                                   29      80      87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                  1982    1992    2001    2002
                                                                                    Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                  2 0     2 3     1.9     2.2
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                      20 6     5 4    11.5    12.8                           Trade
Exports of qoods and sewiceslGDP                   21 0    16 8    16.6    16.3
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                          5 5     4 3     4.1     4.2
Gross national savinqslGDP                                  4 4     4.1     4.3                             T

Current account balance/GDP                                -1 0    -7.4    -8.4
Interest paymentsiGDP                               3 5     0 6     1.4     1.2
Total debffGDP                                     47 5    64 7    79.9    82.8
Total debt servicelexports                         55 2    12 9     7.2     7.4
Present value of debffGDP                                          52.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                      295.1                                Indebtedness

                                       1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        0.2      3.5     7 1     3.0     4.1            *Niger              Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                            -2 9      0.0     3 7    -0 2     1 1


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1982    1992    2001    2002      Growth of investment and GDP 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                        44.3    38.8    406     39.9    /"i
Industry                                           17.3    17.9    17.0    16.9
  Manufacturing                                     3.9     6.5     6.6     6.6
Services                                           38.4    43.4    42.5    43.2

Privata consumption                                83.2    78.2    83.5    83.6
General government consumption                     11.3    17.5    12.4    12.2
Imports of goods andservices                       36.1    17.8    24.0    24.8


                                               1982-92  1992-02   2001    2002
                                                                                 I  Growthof exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)
Aqriculture                                         2.5     3.6    14 7     1 5   L O T
Industry                                           -1.5     2.9    2 4      2 4
  Manufacturlng                                    -1.5     3.6    3 4      3 3
Sewices                                            -1.8     3.1    2 2      4 5
                                                                                                                    00    01    02
Private consumption                                -1.1     4.7
General government consumption                      7 1    -1.8
Gross domestic investment                          -2.7     6.4                                **"** ** Exports   *Imports
Imports of goods and sewices                       -5.7    -0.9




                                                                 - 45 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982   1992   2001  2002     i Inflation("A)
Domestic prices                                                                                                         1
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  -4.5    4.0    2.7
Implicit GDP deflator                      10.6  -2.7    4.0    3.0

Government finance
(% of GDP, inciudes current giantsJ
Current revenue                                   9.1    9.3   10.6
Current budget balance                           -3.5   -1.7   -0.1    1          "      GDPdeflator  -+-CPI
                                                                                        ~                               I
Overall surpiusideficit                          -7.7   -7.4   -6.5


TRADE
                                          1982   1992  2001   2002     1
(US$ miiiions)                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              269    266    286
 Uranium                                          190     86    90
 Livestock products                                43     63    70
 Manufactures
Total imports (tin                               337    404    469
 Food                                              22    105   107
 Fuel and energy                                   22     41    44
 Capital goods                                     85     62    90
                                                                                96                99    00    01
Export price index (1995=100J                      61     99   100                   97     98                      02

Import price index (1995=100)                      54    124    125                      0 Exports        Impcr!s
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         112     60    80

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982   1992  2001   2002     j
(US$ miiiions)                                                           Current account balance to GDP (%)             I
Exports of goods and sewices               423   393    309    333
Imports of goods and services              728   418    453    516
Resource baiance                          -305    -25   -144  -185

Net income                                          7    -15    -13
Net current transfers                       97     -5     14     16

Current account balance                           -24   -144  -163

Financing items (net)                              14    168   188
Changes in net reserves                            10    -24     -5

Memo:
Reserves including goid (USS miiiions)                   107   134
Conversion rate (DEC,iocei/US$J           328.6 264.7  733.0  697.0


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992  2001   2002
(US$ miiiions)                                                           Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
                                                                       ~




Total debt outstanding and disbursed       956  1,517  1,555  1,797    I
  IBRD                                       0      0      0      0
  IDA                                       92   463    753    867

Total debt service                         245     53     25    28
  IBRD                                       0      0      0      0
  IDA                                        1      6      7    15

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants
  Official creditors                        41     76    68    110
  Private creditors                        -20    -20     -6     -6
  Foreign direct investment                 28     56     13
  Portfolio equity                           0      0     0            1                     C: 106
                                                                       1
World Bank program
  Commitments                                0     36   118     39      A IBRD
                                                                          -                               E Bilateral
  Disbursements                             13     21    64     69       B - IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                        -                 F Private
                                                                                                            --
  Principal repayments                       0      2     8       9                                       G Short-term
                                                                                                            -
  Net flows                                 13     19    56     60
  Interest payments                          1     4      5      6
  Net transfers                             13     15    51     54

Deveiooment tconomics                                                                                             Y I W B




                                                       - 46 -

                  Additional Annex 1I: Review of the Niger's Financial Sector

              NIGER: FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


I.Financialsystemoverview

Niger's financial system is shallow and the performance of the relatively important number o f financial
institutions is rather deceptive (the financial system consists o f a national office o f the regional central
bank, eight commercial banks, four insurance companies,l78 MFI's, a pension system, an antenna o f the
regional stock market and three brokerage firms) . Broad money represented only on average 11 percent o f
GDP between 1999 and 2000, compared to about 55 percent in South Africa. This lack of financial depth
reflects in part the country's low level o f development. Per capita income was only $US210 in 2000 and a
very small proportion of the population used the formal financial system with 2 percent o f the labor force
having a bank account as of December 2001. Similarly, bank deposits represent an average o f only 10
percent o f GDP between 1997 and 2001. This ratio has increased marginally from 8.5 percent in 1997 to
12.5 percent in2001.

Commercial banks dominate the financial sector (62.2 percent o f the sector's assets, 84.5 percent if the
social security institution is excluded) and traditional bank deposits represent the major forms o f financial
saving. There i s a sinal1 insurance sector, a relatively large number o f micro finance institutions that
account for barely 2 percent o f total assets o f the financial sector, an embryonic interbank money market
anda rather inactive antenna o fthe Abidjan based regional stock exchange.

                     Table 1 :Total assets of the financial systemin Niger (2000-2001)

                                                                        2001


                   Institutions                          InCFAF billion     Inpercent o f total
                   Banks                                    158,890               62.2
                     BIA-Niger                              46,973                18.4
                     SONIBANK                                39,525               15.5
                     BOA-Niger                               25,654               10.0
                    ECOBANK                                ' 18,841               7.4
                    BCN                                      16,942               6.6
                    BINCI                                    6,794                2.7
                     ZDN                                     4,161                1.6
                    CPCT                                     3,436                1.3
                  Insurance companies                        18,469               7.2
                     Leyma                                   7,249                2.8
                     UGAN                                    7,3 81               2.9
                      CAREN                                  2,923                1.1
                     NIA                                      885                 0.3
                  Nonbank financial institutions            73,846               28.9
                     Of which CNSS                          66,635                26.1
                  Microfinance institutions                  4,128                1.6
                  TOTAL                                     255,333              100.0
                              Source :BCEAO,Ministere des Finances, CNSS, ONPE




                                                     - 47 -

Background

Niger's fmancial sector experienced severe distress in the late 1980s. A number o f factors contributed to
the crisis: economic deteriorationleading to massive public and private arrears to banks, political instability
lasting for more than a decade and a decline in foreign inflows. Moreover, the system's performance was
undermined by an inefficient judicial system and poor financial sector policies, including lax banlung
supervision, a rigid interest rate structure, sectorial credit allocation, subsidized and directed lending
especially in state owned banks inthe 1970's and 1980's.

Some reforms were implemented at the regional level in the late 1980s and early 1990s. A new regional
banking law was adopted in 1989, the regional Banking Commission was established in 1990, and a new
regional insurance code was introduced. A regional regulatory and supervisory framework o f micro-fmance
institutions was adopted and technical assistance provided to MFI's and the unit within the Ministry o f
finance in charge o f the sector's supervision through projects financed by CIDA, ILO and BCEAO.

On the national level, four commercial banks were restructured (NIB (the hture BOA) in 1990, Balinex
(later to become BCN) in 1993, BIAO-Niger in 1995, and BIN (the predecessor o f BINCI) in 1996 and
four others were liquidated (BDRNin 1992, BCC in 1995, BCIN, CNCA in 1992). The insurance sector
was also restructured, with the privatization o f a major company (Leyma). Shortly after the devaluation,
the banking sector experienced a surgeinliquidity.Butthis was to be short-lived as political instability and
economic morosity returned in 1996, accompanied by a growing informalization o f the economy. Portfolio
quality declined, as public and private sector arrears built up again. Profitability and solvency o f
institutions (particularly of commercial banks and insurance companies) suffered.

The global environment started improving at the tum o f the century. In 1999, free elections were organized
and the economic situation had improved with a real GDP growth rate o f 4.6 percent and an inflation rate
o f 3.0 percent. This improvement has created the conditions for a resumption o f financial sector reforms to
support private sector growth and econoinic and social development.

11.The BankingSystem

A. Generalbackground

There are eight licensed credit establishments in Niger, o f which 7 are commercial banks (BIA-Niger,
BOA-Niger, SONIBANK, BINCI, BCN, C D N and ECOBANK), and one i s a specialized financial
institution (CPCT). As o f the end o f 2001, the system's total assets were FCFA 180 billion (US$ 257
million). Within the commercial banking sector, activity is concentrated among four institutions which hold
90 percent o f loans and deposits. The two largest banks alone account for more than half o f the market.




                                                    - 48 -

                         Table 2 :Niger Bank concentration ratio (1997-2001)




                                                                                    ,                  ..

 Bank 1+2+3+4       94.7     92.9      94.7     93.4      90.7     91.3      88.7     90.2    82.0    91.6
 Others              5.3      7.1       5.3      6.6      9.3       8.7      11.3     9.8     18.0     8.40
 Total             100.0     100.0    100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0

Only the two major banks, which are subsidiaries of a Tunisian and a Belgian bank, have maintained
branch networks in five cities outside the capital, Niamey. The number o f bank employees in 2000 totaled
505, up from 1997 and 1998. (see Table 3). Most of these employees are not adequately trained to perform
their job.




                          Dec-97            Dec-98              Dec-99           Dec-00


Branch                      NA                 16                17                19
Employees                   447              496                 525               505
Officers                    142               170                184               208
 Assistants                 305              326                 341               297
                        Source: CBIUMOA and Commercial banks

Bank ownership is dominated by the private sector and nonresident investors. As shown in Table 4 below,
foreign investors hold more than 50 percent of the capital of five out the eight commercial banks operating
inNiger.Foreign shareholding inthe banking sector represents nearly 55 percent ofthe sector total capital.




                                                    - 49 -

                              Table 4: Niger Bankingsector ownership structure


_____--                             ForeignOwnership                                     Resident
                  Parent companies                Muitinat.and     Total     Private State (Including state
                                                Dev Fin Institut.                         owned entemrisesi
                1
 BIA-Niger       Belgolaisei            64             10            74         26                0
                 COFIPA
 SONIBANK        SociCtC Tunisieiine    25             20            45         55                17
                 de Banque
BOA-Niger        African Financial      42                           88         12                0
                 holding
ECOBANK          Ecobank Trans-        99.8                          100         0                0
                 national Inc.1
BINCI            Islamic Development    66                           66         34                0
                 Bank and Daar A1
                 Mal A1 Islami
BCN              Libyan Arab Foreign     50                          50         50                50
                 Bank
 CDN                                     0                            0         12                88
 CPCT                                                                 0         100              100



Nevertheless, Government's presence inthe banking sector remains important. Forty percent o f total credit
i s extended to Government, amounting to CFAF 49.6 billion (see Table 5 below). Over CFAF 6 billion i s
in arrears. Government deposits of CFAF 39.5 billion represent 36 percent o f the total. In addition
Government i s also a shareholder o f banks. Though Government-controlled banks represent a small and
decreasing market share, the performance o f these institutions i s far worse than that o f privately controlled
banks. InDecember 1997, the three government controlled institutions (CDN, BCN, CPCT) had together a
market share o f 10 percent of the total outstanding loans and collected resources. T w o years later, all these
three institutions were placed under interimadministration and controlled only 5 percent o f total loans. On
a combined basis, these institutions have: i)an average non-performing loan ratio o f 74 percent compared
to an average o f 14 percent for the rest o f the system and (ii)reported net losses o f 2 percent of total assets
vs. reportednet income o f 2.7 percent for the banlung system as a whole.

Commercial banks offer term deposits (one to three months being the most popular term), savings accounts
and non interest bearing sight deposits. Except for CrCdit du Niger (CDN) which focuses on hnding real
estate construction and supplying mortgage financing for households (mostly civil servants), financing
provided by the banks is 80 percent short-term, with interest rates tied to the banks' prime lending rates.
(Prime lending rates vary from one bank to another, are not frequently adjusted, and do not reflect the
banks' cost o f funds. They merely serve as a starting point for negotiating lending rates that may end up
being above or below the priine lendingrate, depending on the creditworthiness o f the borrower.)

The market has not been able to offer many opportunities for stable and lasting development for the
banking sector. The concentration o f loans among the largest enterprises has resulted in many banks
exceeding prudential limits on risk concentration in 2000, though the situation has improved since then with
a risk sharing strategy adopted by commercial banks with their parent companies. The best known
customers and probably the most conservatively managed large enterprises and multinational traders
especially in the mining and recently in the telecommunication sectors (SOMAIR, COMINAK, SONIDEP,
MGELEC, SEEN, SNTV, Ets Hiina Souley, CELTEL, SAHEL Com, etc.) are well served by local


                                                      - 50 -

institutions and their parent banks, and the market for these clients is becoming increasingly competitive.

Credit to small and medium sized enterprises has been constrained, however, by a number o f factors,
including the absence o f adequate credit assessment tools, and the lack o f appropriate skills to deal with
SME financing. For some banks, there is also a strategic reluctance to become involved in the
time-consuming and risky task o f extending credit to small and medium-size enterprise. In addition, there i s
little incentive to do so: given the lack o f creditworthy projects (or at least properly organized and presented
projects); and a legal environment that does not offer sufficient protection.

Sectorial credit allocation i s skewed and does not match each sector's relative importance in the economy.
Commerce, transportation and other services account for about 75 percent o f credit to the economy. The
retail and wholesale trade sector received on average 52 percent between 1997-2001. Manufacturing sector
and the transport sector showed a marked decrease in credit share at respectively 7 percent and 4 percent in
2001 compared to 10 percent and 6 percent in 1999. Credit to agnculture is almost nonexistent while this
sector represents about 40 percent o f GDP.

The banks' lending portfolios are rather highly concentrated. As o f December 2001, the twenty largest
borrowers (of which COMINAK, SOMAIR, Total-Fina, Mobil-oil, Celtel, etc. ) accounted for 38 percent
o f all bank lending or the equivalent o f 135 percent o f banks' net equity. Looking at individual banks, four
customers received 49 percent o f the loans at one bank, and two borrowers received nearly 20 percent o f
loans at each o f three other commercial banks. This concentration o f loans i s partially a result o f the
country's economic structure, marked by a high degree o f concentration of activity, o f the important share
o f the informal sector, and of commercial banks' business concentrated on the corporate sector rather than
SMEs.

                     Table 5. Niger :Indicators of financialdevelopment (1997-2001)
                              (In millions of CFAF, unless otherwise indicated)




                           Source: BCEAO, WDI (2001) and staff estimates




                                                      -51 -

reserves
TOTAL                         I 106,6601    1001 111,3071      1001 122,5161 1001 142,0891      1001 162,0411 100



B. Current Financial Conditionof the Banking System

LoanPortfolio
N o n performing loans vary from 15 to 81 percent o f the total portfolio. Four banks, BCN, B I N C I , C D N
and CPCT have a large non-performing portfolio which is inadequately provisioned. (CPCT is a special
case. All its lending is to local communities that according to regulation need not be provisioned as they are
assimilated to government. Inreality, few o f the non-performing credits will be recovered).

Bank margins

Banks have relatively high interest rate margins the result o f         low average cost o f resources and
comfortable lendingrates. The average income on loans was 10 percent in2001 against an average cost o f
funds of 2 percent, as non interest bearing demand deposits account for about 68 percent o f total deposits.
Interest rates are partially liberalized in Niger; nevertheless, lending rates cannot exceed 18 percent, the
usury rate, and savings accounts carry a minimumrate o f 3.5 percent. Interest rates on demand deposits
and time deposits over one year are not regulated while time deposits o f less than a year are remunerated at
the money market interest rate less 2 percent.




                                                     - 52 -

Operating costs

The operating ratio (operating expenses as a percentage o f net banking income) has fluctuated inthe last
five years between 59 and 69 percent. On an individual bank basis, the operating ratios in 2001 varied
between 35 percent and 500 percent. The four private banks: SONIBANK, BOA, BIA and ECOBANK
have acceptable operating ratios. BOA has the highest one o f the four and will need to monitor costs.
BINCI has a low operating ratio; however, BCN, C D N and CPCT have ratios above 100 which indicates
that in the absence o f profound restructuring they are not viable. As described below, BCN has been
restructured.


Net worth

Three banks had negative equity BINCI, C D N and CPCT. With respect to the latter two, official data do
show positive net worth, but this is only because these two institutions did not adequately provision their
non-performing loans. BINCI has been recapitalized since (see below).

Profitability

Profitability has suffered from the economic and political instability o f the late 1990's. Retum on equity
(ROE) declined from 6.8 percent in 1997 to 1.4 percent in 1999 (see Table 6, for summarized income
statement items). During that period a substantial part of profits has been used to build provisions for
non-performing loans. As a result, the total retum on assets (ROA) was very low dropping from 1.02
percent in 1997 to 0.21 percent in 1999. The situation has been reversed since 2000 with an increase in
profitability. The average ROE and ROA have risen substantially reaching on average 16.59 percent and
2.5 1percent respectively. However, four banks still registered negative returns.




                                                    - 53 -

Table 7. Niger :Bank profitability (1997-2001) (In millions of CFAF)




       Source :BCEAO, CB/UMOA reports




                                       - 54 -

Compliancewith prudentialnorms

Although the observance o f prudential regulations has improved slightly between 2000 and 2002, a number
o f violations o f various rules continue to be observed. As o f June 2002, three banks had de facto negative
equity although the data shows only one inthat situation. The other two (CDN and CPCT have negative net
worth if the need for extra provisions is taking into account). This would have an impact on the ratios that
are calculated from the equity base. Two banks are not in compliance with the mini"        liquidityratio and
none was able to meet the portfolio composition ratio, defined as the ratio o f claims on borrowers approved
by the BCEAO to total gross lending by the institution. This provision seeks to improve the quality o f
banks' portfolios. However, its practical application appears problematic, as even some o f the strongest
local borrowers cannot meet the criteria as presently defined to qualify for BCEAO's approval.          This
situation is not specific to Niger and i s present in all UEMOA countries.

C. Regulationand Supervision

The regulation and supervision o f banks and more generally credit establishments i s conducted at the
regional level. The Council o f Ministers o f the Westem Afnca Monetary Union establishes the broad
regulatory and legal framework for banking activities. The Central Bank o f the Western Africa States
establishes the accounting and prudential regulation of credit establishments in the eight member states.
The Banlung Commission has the mandate to supervise the banks and credit establishments in the eight
member states o f the West Afnca Economic and Monetary Union. A recent FSAP o f Cote d'Ivoire
concluded that this framework is satisfactory although there is some room for improvement. Measures to
that effect will have to be taken at the regional level, by the Regional Central Bank and the Regional
Banking Commission. But there are no major regulatory and supervisory issues that could inhibit the
development o f the commercial banking sector inNiger.

D.Bankingsector: the way ahead

Four banks required special attention, BCN, BINCI, CDN and CPCT. B C N i s being restructured with the
help o f its Lybianshareholder. According to the originally agreed plan, Lybia and the Government o f Niger
were to recapitalize B C N with CFAF 1.5 billion each. Lybia paid its part, but the G O N could not. Lybia
has agreed to pay GON's share and an additional CFAF 1.5 billion has thus been brought to the bank by
the Foreign Lybian Bank. It has agreed that after a two year period, it will resell this additional
participation inthe capital of the bank to Nigerien nationals. Intemal changes (such as computerization) are
being camed out by the interim administration. When these are completed the interim administration will be
lifted.

Agreement has been reached with DMI and the Islamic Development Bank for the recapitalization o f
BINCI. DMI would convert into capital a shareholder loan o f CFAF 998 million and inject an additional
USS2.5 million in cash. Frozen deposits o f public enterprises would be converted into equity. The IDB
would raise its petroleum credit line to US5 million from its current USS2 million, add another credit line
of US$5 million to finance imports from Islamic countries and fund technical assistance up to US$500,000.
DMI also asks the Government to contribute immediately CFAF 300 million to the absorption o f past
losses and later on, when its financial situation would permit, an additional CFAF 500 million. DMI has
fully executed its obligations. IDB has put in place the lines o f credit. The immediate contribution of the
Government has beenmade in the form o f land.

Finally, CPCT and C D N will be restructured with the support o f the project (see Annex 2).




                                                       - 55 -

111.Microfinance

The emergence o f alternative systems in the 1990s more or less coincided with the disappearance of
fmancial institutions that had been set up either to channel financing to rural areas or to encourage access
to financial services for small savers inurban areas: such as the apcultural financing institution --CNCA--
and the state owned development bank (BDRN) which were liquidated and the postal saving bank (Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne) which was closed.

The microfmance sector has developed rapidly since the mid 1990s, and has reached a membership o f
87,617 and loans o f approximately CFAF 3.4 billion at the end o f 2001. Aside from the dominant
institutions and networks (TAIMAKO, MCPEC, PMR) there are a large number o f entities with small
membership. While this represents a positive development interms of providing greater access to financial
services, the rapid expansion o f the sector and the apparent lag in establishing adequate monitoring
mechanisms are o f concem. There i s a risk o f excessive proliferation o f weak institutions and subsequent
failures involving the loss of savings for low-income households, which could negatively impact the overall
image o f the sector. The capacity to adequately supervise existing MFIs and perform due diligence in the
licensing o f new entities i s currently limited.

Micro-finance institutions developed along three different organizational models: the first are institutions
that accept deposits and extend credits. This sub-sector is highly concentrated with a single institution
TAIMAKO holding 32 percent o f total deposits and 25 percent o f all loans and the four most important
saving and loans credit unions representing 81 percent o f deposits and 57 percent o f total loans as at the
end o f 2001; the second model consists o f institutions that are mainly credit oriented. SICR-Kokari and
SDSA are the principal institutions o f this type; and the thirdmodel consists o f projects that extend credit
to their clients as a mean to achieve their developmental objective; it i s made up o f several development
projects runby N o n Governmental Organizations fundedby donors.

The regulatory framework for microfinance institutions inNiger and other UEMOA countries consists of
the Parmec Law, regulating savings and loan credit unions, promulgated in Niger in 1996, and a decree
implementing the above law; and BCEAO instructions that governs production o f financial statements. In
1998, a specific unit was set up within the Ministry o f Finance to follow up on the application of the law.

The law distinguishes two major categories o f entities: saving and loans credit unions, (SLCU) and other
institutions. To operate, a SLCU must first be recognized and licensed by the Minister of Finance. Other
institutions can exercise the same activities, subject to the terms o f an agreement to be signed with the
Minister o f Finance. There are about 60 unlicensed micro-finance institutions that operate throughout the
country.

With a staff of three, the microfinance unit at the Ministry o f Finance has not performed any inspection
since its creation in 1998. By way of comparison, the Senegalese inspection unit, with a staff o f 15 and
approximately equivalent means (financing and technical assistance provided by BCEAO, CIDA and the
ILO), reportedly performed 47 inspections in2001.




                                                    - 56 -

          Table 8 :Niger- Mainfinancialindicatorsof microfinanceinstitutions(CFAF million)




                  Source: 1MinisP.v of Finance, BCEAO and ANIPMF

The rapid proliferation o f micro finance institutions (MFIs) in urban areas in recent years has been the
driving force behind the rapid increase in deposits, with small businesses, merchants and civil servants
accounting for an increasingly large share of business. Overall, total loans distributed by the sector has
increased significantly from CFAF 1.9 billion in 1998 to 2.7 billion in 2000 and 2001 mostly short term
(88 percent o f the total portfolio in 2000).

Operating expenses rose throughout the 1998-2001 period. This increase is all the more disturbing since
there does not seem to be a strong correlation between expenses and the number of sales points,
membership,or the level o f deposits or loans. The biggest expense items are personnel costs and loan losses
provisions. At 19 percent personnel costs are at an acceptable level, but the high level o f provisions - 13
percent in 1998 and 36 percent in 2001- reflects a serious deterioration in credit quality.

Operating losses in 2000 have resulted in a deterioration incapital adequacy. Net worth has decreased from
CFAF 1.5 billion in 1998 to 1 billion in 2000. Required investment programs can only be funded with
capital or donor subsidies. The latter have become less readily available inrecent years; any resumption o f
donor fimding will be subject to a resolution o fmanagement and governance problems.

The few reports produced on the sector since 1997 (SAFECO (2000), Etude stir la vinbilitkfinancidres
des SFD dzi Niger and BCEAO-BIT (1994-2000), Bnnqzies de donnkes sur les SFD du Niger) underscore
the following weaknesses inMFI's: poor governance and weak management; poor accounting and auditing
standards; lack o f familiarity with the regulatory framework; and weakness o f the information systems and
intemal controls.

Some micro-finance institutions have suffered difficulties serious enough to warrant the appointment o f
interimadministrators. Taimako suffered large withdrawals of deposits due to loss of confidence caused by
poor management and misuse o f funds. This culminated in August 2001 in a run on the institution and a
severe liquidity crunch. As o f September 2002, the liquidity situation o f Taimako had improved. The same
cannot be said o f portfolio quality. Since 1999, gross non-performing loans increased dramatically to reach
CFAF 592 million (78 percent o f total loans outstanding) by the end o f 2001. Notwithstanding its recovery
efforts, Taimako still had CFAF 200 million o f non-perfonning loans as o f September 2002, (30 percent
o f the loan portfolio). This situation threatens the solvency o f the institution.

The Motivement des Cnisses Popailnires d'Epargne et de Credit ('ICPEC)              has been put under interim
administration since 2001. Established in 1989 with technical assistance provided by the World Council o f
Credit Unions, funded by the USAID, MCPEC has expanded rapidly. By 1996, it had 65 individual units



                                                       - 57 -

with 13 000 members. Since the suspension of the technical assistance provided by USAID in 1996.
MCEPC has been losing market share and some o f the individual units. Its exact financial situation i s
unknown, and many affiliates refuse to pay their dues. The mandate of the interim administrator i s to shed
light on the situation and launchthe restructuring process.

Given the quasi absence o f supervision from the Ministry o f Finance, there i s concem about all the other
micro-finance institutions, thus the needto conduct audits.

IV.The Postal Financial System

A. Background

The Ofice National de In Poste et de I'Epargne (ONPE) was created in 1996 with the simultaneous
establishment o f the Societe Nigerienne des Telecommunications (SONITEL). Both institutions are the
outcome o f the splitting up o f the Office des Postes et Telecommunications dti Niger (OPT) which had
been the entityjointly providing postal, telecommunication as well as financial services through the postal
network system since 1972. From a legal point o f view, the split was camed out by declaring the
liquidation of OPT, establishing two new legal entities (ONPE and SONITEL), and transferring the assets
and liabilities o f OPT to either ONPE or SONITEL. However, the split was not always clear-cut or
unambiguously defined, as in practice many assets and activities remained jointly owned or operated.
ONPE took over the savings bank which provided deposit and savings services through a nationwide
network o f 45 postal branches and had been inoperative since 1992. Before its closing in 1992, CNE
operated fairly aggressively and exhibited a strong balance sheet growth. At the time of closing it had
118,016 accounts and deposits amounting to CFAF 4,077 millions in 1992. These have remained frozen
since.

From its early days, OWE has suffered operating losses. These losses have consumed part of ONPE's
equity and the operating deficit has been financed with fimds from depositors o f postal checlung accounts.
By 2000, six years after its establishment, cumulative losses had reached CFAF 2,827 million. Inaddition
ONPE's financial situation has been adversely affected by frozen deposit assumed at the time of the CNE
closing and frozen assets at BDRN amounting to CFAF 4.9 billion.

B.Recent Evolution and Performance

Financial services currently offered by ONPE are: (i)The "Compte Cozirant Postal (CCP)", a
currendcheclung account, and (ii)   transfers o f fimds nationally and internationally. The "Livret d 'Epargne"
or savings passbook, which i s primarily geared at individuals, most of whom would not satisfy the
minimumbalance required to open an account ina coinmercial bank, is no longer providedsince the closing
o f CNE in 1992.




                                                      - 58 -

Table 9 below presents the evolution o f the number o f existing accounts (by opposition to active accounts
which are much fewer) and the volume o f deposits.

                                Table 9: ONPE :Evolutionof Operations

1 (deposits in CFAFmillion)                       1998              1999            2000              2001

   Numberof Accounts                             38,835            37,125          37,233
   Volume of Deposits                             3,517             4,029           4,839
 CNE
   Numberof Accounts                             118,016          118,016         118,016            118,016
   Volume of Deposits                             4,077
Total volume
 Payment services
 Numberof operations                             133,169           91,745           NA                 NA
    Ofwhich domestic operations                  123,146           84,882
 Amount                                          41,304            28,500
     Of which domestic operations                40,195            27,785




The quasi totality o f revenues from financial services comes from the CCPs as the savings branch i s
inactive and there are n o productive investments associated with the funds collected by CNE. These
revenues totaled CFAF 592 million or 42 percent o f total ONPE revenues. ONPE has had operating
deficits covered by subsidies from the Treasury, which by September 2002, had reached CFAF 650 million
and a subsidy from SONITEL until its privatization amounting to CFAF 300 million per year. One reason
for the deficit is the importance o f nonproductive assets. For instance, the majority o f assets on the books
o f the former savings bank (CNE) are frozen deposits at BDRN (in liquidation) or at the Treasury. High
operating costs are another factor. As shown intable 11staff costs amounted to CFAF 1.3 billion in 2000,
 1.4 billion in 2001, averaging 167 percent o f value added. Eighty five percent o f the 66 post offices are
losing money.

                         Table 10. ONPE :Selecteditems onthe income statement

     (inmillionof CFAF)                                           2001                          2000
     Staff Costs                                                 1,329                          1,384
     Other Administrative Costs                                    441                           541
     Depreciation                                                  135                            130
     Total Administrative Costs                                  1,905                          2,055
     Financial services revenue                                    592                           658



V. The Insurancesector

There are four insurance companies inNiger. Three (Leyma, NIA,and Caren) are engaged in only non-life
insurance while the fourth one (UGAN) has also a separate life insurance business. The ratio o f premiums
written as a percentage of GDP was a low 0.85 percent in 2001, whereas the average for A h c a in 2000
was 4.1 percent, and 1.6 percent for CBte d'Ivoire. The insurance density (the ratio o f total premium to the
total population) rate remainedvery low at $0.94 per inhabitant, against $32 for Africa, and $11 for C6te



                                                    - 59 -

d'Ivoire, the largest in the CIMA countries.


There is potential for development of new products and increasing the volume o f business inNiger, but the
l o w purchasingpower is an obstacle to the development o f the sector, even though the insuredpopulation i s
relatively small. All insurance companies are privately owned. With the latest restmcturing (see below),
Nigerien nationals hold a significant share inthe industry.

                          Table 11. Structure of the Niger insurance market (2001)

(in CFAF millions)                                                        Premium         Share
                                                                     ~



Union GCnCraledes Assurances duNiger (UGAN)                                 2,707                36.9
CAREN-Assurances                                                             1341                 21.0
SociCtCNigerienne d'Assurance et de Reassurance(Leyma)                      2,369                 32.3
NigCrienne d'Assurance et de RCassurance(NIA)                                 726                 9.9
Total                                                                       7,343                100.0
Total memiums issued in oercentaee of GDP                                  0.85%
                           Source :DCA and insrirnnce conzpnnies

In 2001 the volume of business stood at CFAF 7.3 billion (about US$11 million), the largest share of
which was taken up by motor vehicle insurance.




  (in FCFA billion                  1997           1998            1999           2000             2001
  Life                               0.6            0.6            0.4             0.4              0.3
Non-life                             5.8            5.8            6.3             7.1              7.0
  Total                              6.4            7.3            6.7             7.5              7.3



Life insurance, with premiums totaling CFAF 0.3 billion, represented 4.1 percent o f the market in 2001.
The tendency for life insurance premiums to be less than non-life premiums i s typical for developing
countries but i s contrary to the picture for the world as a whole (in2000, 62 percent o f worldwide premium
volume was attributable to life and 38 percent to non-life insurance). The declining trend in life insurance
has been accentuated by lingering economic recession, an increasing fiscal deficit which led to
accumulation o f salary arrears in the public sector and the low level o f disposable income for the majority
o f the population. Two major insurance companies (CAREN and Leyma) which had been offering some
life insurance ceased this activity.

As can be seen in Table 13 below insurance companies have high operating costs (40 percent o f
premiums). In addition, in 1999, insurance companies had insufficient technical provisions, a shortfall in
the coverage o f liabilities by assets and an insufficient solvency margin. None o f the companies met the
prudential regulation established by the C I W code. Most of the companies suffer from premium arrears.




                                                      - 60 -

         Table 13.Niger :Profitability(1997-2001) (CFA Fmillion)unless otherwise indicated


                                     1997            1998             1999           2000            2001
 Gross premiums                      6,381          7,259            6,736           7,480           7,343
 Net profit (loss)                   1,079            340              533             181            138
Equity                                -736          -1719       I   -1J77      1     1,950           3,284
Total assets                                                                        17.309          18.470

ROA ("h)                                             NA               NA              2.1            0.7
Loss ratio (%)                       61.5            38.5             45.7           37.4            40.7
 Expense ratio (%)                   34.06           36.7             36.5           39.5            40.2



UGAN was restructured in 2001 with an injection of funds of about CFAF 1.6 billion. Its capital now
stands at CFAF 568 million, with the SUNU group holding 80 percent o f the shares. On the other hand, the
life insurance subsidiary does not meet all the prudential requirements and will require some further
recapitalization. LEYMA received an injection o f funds o f CFAF 1.2 billion and its majority shareholder i s
now the group Hima Souley (90 percent o f the capital). Internal restructuring i s needed with the downsizing
o f about half the personnel. NIA has raised its capital from CFAF 300 to 600 million. It still needs to
improve its accounting system. Finally, CAREN, which is the most efficient o f the four companies has a
shortfall o f capital o f CFAF 125 million which its shareholders are likely to fill soon. In summary, a
sizable effort has been made to restructure the insurance sector. Monitoring i s required to ensure that the
restructuring will be completed and that there is no further deterioration.

Regulation and Supervision

Niger is a member o f the Inter-African Conference o f Insurance Markets (CIMA), pursuant to a treaty
signed in July 1992 and which entered in force in 1995. Thirteen francophone African countries share the
same insurance law and regulatory/supervisory agency. The surveillance o f the insurance sector o f the
entire zone i s performed by the C I M A General Secretariat, which i s based inLibreville, Gabon. A group o f
commissioner-controllers is responsible for monitoring the companies' fmancial position and ensuring
compliance with the C I M A Code requirements. These experts perform both on- and off- site inspections.
The FSAPs o f Cameroon, Gabon and C6te d'Ivoire have noted that the secretariat is doing an honest job
supervising the insurance companies inthe franc zone.

Niger has also established an Insurance Control Department (DCA) in the Ministry o f Finance. This
department is charged with assisting CIMA in verifying compliance by the insurance companies and
intermediaries with the C I M A Code. It also conducts on-site and off-site inspections. Among other things,
D C A monitors the establishment o f new companies and company liquidations; it further performs the
preliminary examination o f requests for licenses, amendments to articles o f association and applications to
sell shares, and also deals with complaints by insured parties. Inaddition, the D C A reviews the companies'
annual statements and ensures that they observe the rules.

VI. Securities markets

Securities trading in the U E M O A takes place on the Abidjan-based regional stock exchange (BRVM),
which took over the business o f the former Abidjan Stock Exchange and began operations in September
1998. There are currently 41 shares listed on the BRVM; 39 o f them are from Ivoirian companies (35



                                                   - 61 -

carried over from the old Abidjan stock exchange and four new listings since the regional exchange was
created). Market capitalization at the end of 2001 stood at CFAF 862 billion (US$1.4 billion).

The bond market operating in the context o f the BRVM i s still underdeveloped. The volume o f bonds
issued has been uneven. It increased from CFAF 50 billion in 1998 to CFAF 142 billion in 1999, but
declined to CFAF 32 billion in 2000 and increased again to CFAF 74 million in 2001. Furthermore, the
secondary market remains very shallow, with only six bonds traded regularly out o f the thirty that are
listed.

The regional stock exchange has an antenna in Niamey whose role i s to offer all the services o f the stock
exchange locally, drumup business and conduct education and sensitization campaigns. Hidden out o f sight
ina side street, it does not fulfill its mandate.

There are three brokerage houses (SociitBs de gestion et d'intermidiation) in Niamey. One is a local
broker SGI Niger. The two others are the brokerage arms of BOA and Ecobank. SGI Niger i s currently
preparing issues on the stock exchange o f shares o f recently privatized companies.

Financial markets in the Westem Economic and Monetary union are regulated by the Regional council o f
Public Saving and Financial Markets (Conseil RBgional de 1'Epargne Ptibliqzie et des Marchis
Financiers-CREPMfl. The CREPMF has a mandate to organize and supervise public issues as well as
control the brokerage industry.There are no regulatory issues specific to Niger.

VII. Social Security

The social security institution, Caisse Nationale de Sicziviti Sociale (CNSS) was established in 1965. It
manages three social protection programs namely, family allowances, workmen's compensation, and a
retirement fund. In addition, it manages a fund (Action sanitaire et sociale) providing protection to the
mother and child. It covered 17,158 employers at the end o f 2001 for an average o f 48,633 employees. It
received contributions o f CFAF 6.32 billion. Arrears on contributions amount to CFAF 10.8 billion and
close to CFAF 15 billion tahng into account the penalties. Total complement at the end o f 2001 was 692.

The family allowance branch has a surplus, albeit shrinking. In 2001, revenues were CFAF 4 billion
against expenditures o f CFAF 3.8 billion. The workmen's compensation branch also registered surplus in
2001 with CFAF 737 million inrevenues against CFAF 612 million in expenditures. However, the pension
branch was in deep deficit with revenues o f CFAF 1.5 billion against expenditures o f CFAF 3.2 billion. All
this on a cash basis. On an actuarial basis, the situation would be much worse. These deficits contribute to
increase the contingent liability o f the Government.

It should be noted that the estimates above do not represent the true costs o f running each branch. Indeed,
there i s no separate management o f branches and operating costs are attributed arbitrarily to each branch.




                                                     - 62 -

MAP SECTION


