Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3856 NIR 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  March 3, 2004
 
Page  2
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3856 NIR  
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 23, 
2003, describing a program of objectives and actions designed to improve the efficiency 
of the Borrower’s financial system policy (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(a) 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“CCPs” means 
Centres de chèques postaux,
 an independent entity 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower processing, 
inter alia
,
postal 
cheques; 
(c) 
“CDN” means 
Crédit du Niger
 a bank established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower; 
(d) 
“
CNE” means 
Caisse Nationale d’Epargne
,
the Borrower’s postal 
savings bank before the reorganization proposed under this Project; 
(e) “CNSS” 
means 
Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale, 
the Borrower’s 
social security agency established and operating pursuant to law No 004/65 dated 
February 8, 1965 of the laws of the Borrower; 
(f) “CPCT” 
means 
Caisse
 de Prêts aux Collectivités Territoriales, 
the 
Borrower’s rural financing support agency established and operating pursuant to  
law 70/7 of March 17, 1970 of the laws of the Borrower; 
(g) “CPP” 
means 
Comité de Pilotage du Projet, 
the Borrower’s Project 
supervision and coordination entity established pursuant to 
Arrêté
 No. 1159 of June 2, 
2003; 
(h) 
“DA” means 
Direction d’Assurances
,
the Directorate in charge of 
supervision of insurance institutions in MFE (as hereafter defined); 
(i) 
“Eligible Employees of CDN, Post and CNSS” means employees eligible 
to receive severance payments in accordance with the laws of the Borrower, including 
provisions of the Borrower’s Labor Code; 
(j) “DMCE” 
means 
Direction de la monnaie et du credit et de l’épargne
,
the 
Directorate in charge of the monitoring of banks and other financial institutions in MFE 
(as hereafter defined); 
(k) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
"European Union”, means the European Union having adopted as single 
currency the Euro, in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, 
as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(m) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31 in the same year; 
(o) “FCFA” 
means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(p) 
 
“IEC” means information, education and communication 
campaigns; 
(q) 
“MFE” means 
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie, 
the B
orrower’s 
Ministry of Finance; 
(r) “ONPE” 
means 
Office Nationale de la Poste et de l’Epargne
,
the 
Borrower’s Post Office established pursuant to 
Ordonnance
 No 28.96 dated June 6, 1996 
of the laws of the Borrower; 
(s) 
“Post” means the Borrower’s postal service entity, established in 
accordance with
 Ordonnance 
No. 28.96, dated June 6, 1996, currently under 
reorganization, and such term comprises Postal Bank (as hereafter defined) and Postal 
Office (as hereafter defined); 
(t) 
“Postal Bank” means the postal financing institution to be established 
under this Project, derived from the merger of CCPs and CNE; 
(u) 
“Postal Office means the post office to be established under this Project;  
(v) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.03 of this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 26, 2002, and on behalf of the Borrower on May 8, 
2002; 
(x) 
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(y) 
"Project Implementation Manual" and “PIM” mean the “
Manuel de 
Procédures” 
referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia
,
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, including a Project 
implementation plan, eligibility criteria for the distribution of Grants and monitoring and 
performance indicators, as the
 
same may be amended from time to time with the approval 
of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to said Project Implementation 
Manual; 
(z) 
 “PSC” means the Project Supervisory Committee, established pursuant 
to 
Arreté No. 159 
of the Borrower, dated June 23 2003;  
(aa) 
“PMU” means the project management unit and established pursuant to 
Arrêté 
No.161, dated June 23, 2003; and  
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals by the Borrower in respect of expenditures made under the Project and 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Arrangement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the name of the MFE in 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on July 15, and January 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each July 
15 and January 15, commencing July 15, 2014 and ending January 15, 2044.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2024 shall be one 
Page  7
-
6
-
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the European Union is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  8
-
7
-
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an amount 
equivalent to $130,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project; 
 
(c) 
deposit into the Project Account, in quarterly installments, until 
Completion Date, such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the 
Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit
 
referred to in paragraph 
(b) above; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause the PMU to maintain, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  10
-
9
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, and the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations set out in 
 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
The Borrower has: 
(a) 
established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
for the purposes of said Section, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
established PMU in form and in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association and appointed the project management team of PMU in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
established a computerized accounting and financial management system 
in the PMU, acceptable to the Association; and 
(e) 
adopted, and furnished to the Association, the Project 
Implementation manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for financing 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economy  
BP 389 
 
Niamey 
 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile:   
 
(227) 73 59 34 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Joseph Diatta 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Nils Tcheyan 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods and vehicles 
1,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
70%  
 
 
of local 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
3,700,000 
85% of foreign 
 
services and audits 
 
expenditures and 
80%  
 
 
of local 
expenditures 
 
(3) Training 
1,660,000 
100% 
 
(4) Operating 
costs 
810,000 
90% 
 
(5) Severance 
payments 
1,800,000 
 
100% 
of 
expenditures  
 
incurred 
 
(6) Refunding 
of 
700,000 
Amount 
due 
pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) 
of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
730,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 10,900,000 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
 
(c) 
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility 
services, travel and supervision costs, salaries, benefits and training of contractual 
staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service; and 
 
(d) 
the term “severance payments” means payment made by the 
Borrower to Eligible Employees of CDN, Postal and CNSS, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 550,000 may be made on account of expenditures before that date but after the date 
of six months prior to the signing of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, for goods or services, as the case may be, except 
for items under contract for expenditures less than $100,000 equivalent for goods, and 
less than $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent for 
individuals; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s global financial sector 
adjustment program through: (a) financing of severance payments to staff of certain 
financial entities; (b) strengthening the legal and regulatory environment conducive to 
financial activities; (c) restructuring of the banking sector; (d) strengthening consumer 
and small-and-medium-enterprise financing; (e) reorganization of micro-finance 
institutions and ONPE; (f) supporting social security; and (g) strengthening 
administrative and technical capacity in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and in 
banking- and insurance institutions and associations. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening of the Legal  Environment
1. 
Carrying out a study to assess the need for legal and regulatory reform in order to 
facilitate issuing of: (i) land titles on vacant urban and rural real estate amenable to being 
mortgaged; (ii) guarantees for lenders to housing projects in urban and rural areas and 
(iii) guarantees for commercial activities, all through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
2. 
Improving the urban and rural land registries (
cadastre foncier
)
and carrying out 
a
study to harmonize the material and procedural regulations pertaining to land-title and 
mining-title registration all through the provision of technical advisory services. 
3. 
Carrying out a study to review required legislative and regulatory changes for the 
opening of the postal monopoly to private competition in the core postal and financial 
services through the provision of technical advisory services. 
4. 
Provision of training in the administration of credit files and enforcement of 
financial obligations resulting from credit agreements, to selected judges, legal counsel in 
financing institutions, members of the legal professions, selected civil servants and 
private entrepreneurs, and the carrying out of IEC campaigns and workshops. 
5. 
Carrying out a study on the feasibility to rehabilitate the 
casier judiciaire
 and 
supporting the recommendations of said study, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training to selected judicial staff. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
6. Reforming 
the 
registre de commerce
 
et du crédit mobilier 
in conformity with the 
uniform laws of the 
Organization pour l’Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
 
through the provision of technical advisory services to conform to the norms of the law, 
equipment and training. 
7. 
Organizing a roundtable on justice and financial institutions, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
8. 
Issuing the third edition of the 
Recueil des lois et règlements du Niger
 and 
connecting the Journal Official to the Internet via GLIN, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training of 
Journal Officiel 
staff. 
9. 
Carrying out a study to improve the legal and regulatory framework and 
economic incentives for the financing of SME through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
Part B
:
Restructuring of the Banking Sector
1. 
Establishment of a fiduc
iary fund to manage selected assets of CDN’s portfolio, 
or restructuring and divestiture of the states’ majority shareholding in CDN, as the case 
may be.  
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services for the divestiture of CDN from 
state majority ownership.
 
2. 
Strengthening of Social Housing 
Carrying out a study to prepare a comprehensive financing strategy for the 
provision of affordable housing to the poor in the territory of the Borrower through 
provision of technical advisory services, the carrying out of a donors’ roundtable and 
implementation of selected recommendations of said study and round table. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of CPCT
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
Strengthening administrative, financial and technical capacity of the management 
of CPCT through the provision of technical advisory services, training and the acquisition 
of equipment. 
Part C:
Strengthening Financial Intermediation of Proximity
1. 
Strengthening of the micro-finance unit in MEF
(a) 
Strengthening of the administrative, technical and financial supervision 
capacity of the micro-finance unit in MEF through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles. 
(b) 
Carrying out of financial and technical audits of selected micro-finance 
institutions through the provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of 
pilot activities testing selected recommendations of said audits. 
2. 
Strengthening capacity of the postal financial services 
(a) 
Establishment of the Postal Bank as an independent branch of the Post, 
offering financial services to the public and born from the merger of CCP and CNE. 
(b) 
Strengthening the administrative-, technical-, communications-, 
financial, and management capacity of the management of the Post Office and the Post 
Bank through the provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition of 
equipment. 
(c) 
Carrying out a study to: (i) assess the feasibility of universal access to 
Post Office and Post Bank services in the territory of the Borrower under a competitive 
regime and (ii) estimate the recurrent subsidy needed to maintain said access, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.  
Part D:
Social Security Reform
Support to the Restructuring of CNSS through the carrying out of an actuarial 
study and the implementation of selected recommendations of said study, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.  
Part E:
Retrenchment
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Assisting CDN, the Post and CNSS to carry out plans for the retrenchment of 
their approximately 600 Eligible Employees due to their reorganization. 
Part F:
Strengthening capacity in MEF and Banking Associations
1. Institutional 
Strengthening
Strengthening administrative, financial, technical and supervisory capacity in 
MFE’s ministerial cabinet, in DMCE including the microfinance cell and DA, through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training
 
and the acquisition of equipment.  
2. 
Capacity building within commercial banks and insurance companies
Provision of training to selected staff in commercial banks and insurance 
companies to strengthen their operational managerial and prudential capacities.  
3. 
Strengthening Private Banking Associations
Strengthening the administrative, financial, technical and management capacity 
of the management of the professional bankers’ associations in the territory of the 
Borrower, through the provision of technical advisory services and training.  
Part G
:
Project Management, Evaluation and Supervision
Administration, coordination, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of 
Project implementation through the provision of technical assistance services and 
training programs for selected staff in PMU and the acquisition of equipment, 
including vehicles. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2007. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and C
onsultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
1. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
2. Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers and telecommunications 
equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods such as office equipment, other than computers and telecommunications 
equipment, and vehicles, under contracts not to exceed in the aggregate $100,000 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $140,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002, (the Consultant Guidelines), 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultan
ts’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for:  (a) research activities and activities requiring specialized expertise, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and (b) training under  
Part B of the Project, estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial and technical audits may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the provision of training which are estimated to cost less than 
$10,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, and estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract for consultant firms, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines
.
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for individual consultants: (a) meeting the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and (b) employed under contracts concluded 
with UGP, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consul
tants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less $100,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (b) of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for training, workshops, conference 
attendance and study tours, the Bank’s non-objection to the annual activity- and 
procurement program shall be deemed approval of said activity.  All out of country 
training will be subject to prior approval 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Section I
.
General
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or waive 
any provision of said Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
Section II.
Coordination, Management and Supervision
2. The 
Borrower 
shall 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and summarized in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly until the completion of the Project, for the first time by 
March 1, 2004, or such other date as the Association shall agree, for its review and 
comments, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 2, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. In particular 
the report shall detail: (i) the proposed procurement plan for the following twelve months, 
and (ii) achievements under Parts C 3. and D 2. of the Project; 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission of 
the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph said report (Annual Review
), 
and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report, the Association’s views on the matter and in accordance 
with the PIM. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
Section III
.
Midterm Review
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
By June 30, 2006, or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, 
carry out, jointly with the Association and CPP, a midterm review (Midterm Review
). 
Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project under an agenda encompassing the agenda of the Annual Reviews, and, more 
specifically: (i) the achievements under Part A of the Project, and (ii) progress under  
Part B 1. of the Project.  
 
(b) 
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, 
in such detail, as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation 
of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such 
other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association 
in furtherance of the objectives of the Project and in accordance with the PIM. 
Section IV
.
Covenants
4.
 
The Borrower shall
,
(a) 
appoint within PMU the following management team with qualifications 
and experience, satisfactory to the Association, with qualified support staff in sufficient 
numbers, and maintain said management team until the Completion Date in conformity 
with 
Arreté No. 
161
 
dated June 2, 2003: (i) the Project coordinator, 
 
(ii) an administrative and financial management specialist; and (iii) a procurement 
specialist. The PMU shall be responsible for the overall implementation, day-to-day 
operation and supervision of Project activities
.
(b) 
maintain PSC in conformity with 
Arreté No. 
159
 
dated June 2, 2003 until 
the Completion Date. Said PSC shall be chaired by a representative of MFE, with 
re
presentatives of the Borrower’s social security reform committee, the Ministry of Justice, 
ONPE, commercial banks, insurance companies and the Project coordinator as members. 
The PSC will devise Project development directives and coordinate the carrying out of the 
Parts of the Project. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall initiate the carrying out of baseline studies required to measure 
Project performance in accordance with the Project performance indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 of this Agreement within four months of the Effectiveness Date. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, pursuant to the findings proposed at the Midterm Review and 
the decisions reached during said Review on behalf of the implementation of Part B 1. of 
the Project, initiate appropriate steps, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, 
to divest majority state ownership in CDN. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
 
FCFA 700,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount of FCFA 350,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000 (four million Special Drawing Rights). 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators 
 
1
The membership of microfinance 
institutions increases by 15 percent over the life 
of the project) compared to the base-line study 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement 
November 2007 
2.      Customer satisfaction with financial 
institutions has increased over the life of the 
project) compared to the base-line study referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement 
November 2007 
3.     Establishment of a regulatory framework to 
allow for the issuing of land titles on vacant land 
June 2005 
4.      Publication of a decree prohibiting 
delinquent borrowers from participating in calls 
for bids for privatization and public 
procurement 
June 2004 
5
Ten percent of the staff of commercial 
banks and insurance companies has benefited 
from training 
June 2007 
6.         The postal bank is operational 
September 2004 
7.      The actuarial audit of CNSS has been 
completed and draft legalization has been 
adopted by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers 
to reequilibrate the benefits and the 
contributions 
June 2005 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
