                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001906



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-38560)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
                           (US$14.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                         FOR A

              FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                      June 30, 2011




Finance and Private Sector Development Department
West/Central Africa
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2010)

                    Currency Unit     =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
                      CFAF 1.00       =        US$0.002
                        US$ 1.00      =        1.59 Special Drawing Rights (SDR)

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARSM      Agence de Régulation et de Supervision de la Microfinance
          (Microfinance Regulatory and Supervisory Agency)
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de I’ Ouest
          (Central Bank of West African States)
BCN       Banque Commerciale du Niger
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCP       Centre des Chèques Postaux
CDN       Crédit du Niger
CIMA      Conference Inter-Africaine des Marchés d’Assurance
CNE       Caisse Nationale d’épargne
CNSS      Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale (National Social Security Institution)
CPCT      Caisse de Prêt aux Collectivités Territoriales
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISR       Implementation Status Report
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
MCEPEC    Mouvement des Caisses Populaires d'Epargne et de Crédit
MFI       Microfinance Institutions
MTR        Mid Term Review
NIA       Nigérienne d 'Assurance et de Réassurance
ONPE      Office Nationale des Postes et de l’Épargne
PCU       Project Management Unit
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC      Niger Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SME       Small and Medium-size Enterprise
SONIDEP   Société Nigérienne de Distribution de Produits Pétroliers
SONITEL   Société Nigérienne de Télécommunications (Telecommunications Company)
TA        Technical Assistance
QAG        Quality Assurance Group




                                          ii
      Vice President:    Obiageli Ezekwesili
    Country Director:    Ousmane Diagana
     Sector Manager:     Paul Noumba Um
Project Team Leader:     Korotoumou Ouattara
   ICR Team Leader:      Magueye Dia




                   iii
                                                       NIGER
                                        Financial Sector Technical Assistance


                                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................1
2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................5
3.        Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................10
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................13
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..............................................................14
6.        Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................16
7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...................17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................................................18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................................19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............................23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................................26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................................27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................................34
Map       35




                                                                    iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                    Financial Sector
Country:               Niger                  Project Name:         Technical Assistance
                                                                    Project
Project ID:            P074316                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-38560
ICR Date:              03/30/2011             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                       Technical Assistance                         Government of Niger
Lending Instrument:                           Borrower:
                       Loan                                         (GON)
Original Total
                     XDR 10.9 million      Disbursed Amount:        XDR 7.9 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 9.4 million
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/17/2002   Effectiveness:         08/26/2004       08/26/2004
Appraisal:             04/18/2003   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/19/2004   Mid-term Review:                        01/15/2007
                                    Closing:               04/30/2008       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                  Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:              Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing             Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                                    Unsatisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:



                                              v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                               Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                                   Moderately Satisfactory
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                         Yes                                   None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                         Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                    30                 30
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance               5                  5
Housing finance and real estate markets                    20                 20
Micro- and SME finance                                     15                 15
Postal services                                            30                 30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Legal institutions for a market economy                      17                   17
Other financial and private sector development               33                   33
Rural markets                                                17                   17
Social risk mitigation                                       16                   16
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization        17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ousmane Diagana               Diariatou Gaye
Sector Manager:           Paul Noumba Um                Gerard A. Byam
Project Team Leader:      Korotoumou Ouattara           André Ryba
ICR Team Leader:          Magueye Dia
ICR Primary Author:       Magueye Dia




                                                vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The global objective of the project is to improve the efficiency, reach and depth of the Niger
financial system so that it can fulfill its important role of contributing to growth and poverty
reduction.

(a)      PDO Indicators

                                                    Original Target       Formally     Actual Value Achieved
      Indicator             Baseline Value            Values (from     Revised Target    at Completion or
                                                 approval documents)       Values           Target Years
Indicator 1:       Cost of financial intermediation (spread between lending rate and deposit rate) reduced.
Value
(quantitative or   8.9%                          8%                                  8.3%
qualitative)
Date achieved      10/31/2001                    12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
                                                                                     End of project target
(incl. %
                                                                                     not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2:       Financial depth (M2/GDP) increases
Value
(quantitative or   15.82%                        18%                                 21.86%
qualitative)
Date achieved      10/31/2004                    12/31/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                                                                                     End of project target
(incl. %
                                                                                     met and exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Share of private sector credit to GDP increases
Value
(quantitative or   6.85%                         13%                                 14.03%
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                    12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
                                                                                     End of project target
(incl. %
                                                                                     met.
achievement)
Indicator 4:       Efficiency of banks (Profit/loan portfolio) increases
Value
(quantitative or   10.5%                         12%                                 10.3%
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                    12/31/2008                          12/31/2010
                                                                                     Latest available
Comments
                                                                                     information.
(incl. %
                                                                                     End of project target
achievement)
                                                                                     likely to be met.




                                                       vii
(b)      Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                                                                              Actual Value
                                                     Original Target        Formally
                                                                                              Achieved at
      Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from       Revised Target
                                                                                         Completion or Target
                                                  approval documents)         Values
                                                                                                  Years
                   The Civil and commercial procedures code amended based on the 2007 study on justice
Indicator 1:
                   and financial institutions and cost of enforcing contracts (% claim) decreases
Value
(quantitative or   42.0%                        40%                                   59.6%
qualitative)
Date achieved      10/31/2004                   06/30/2010                            12/31/2009
                                                                                      Doing Business report
Comments
                                                                                      data.
(incl. %
                                                                                      End of project target
achievement)
                                                                                      unlikely to be met.
Indicator 2:       Cost of registering property (% of property value) decreases
Value
(quantitative or   12.5%                        10%                                   11%
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                   12/31/2010                            12/31/2009
                                                                                      Doing Business report
Comments
                                                                                      data.
(incl. %
                                                                                      End of project target
achievement)
                                                                                      unlikely to be met.
Indicator 3 :      CDN housing loans to clients increase
Value
(quantitative or   CFAF 257 million             F CFA 295 million                     CFAF 257 million
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                   12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                                                                                    Baseline data.
                                                                                    Target not met.
                                                                                    CDN not operational.
Comments                                                                            Privatization
(incl. %                                                                            process failed. Selected
achievement)                                                                        majority shareholder
                                                                                    was unable to obtain
                                                                                    from a license to
                                                                                    operate.
Indicator 4:       Number of annual supervision missions conducted by the supervisory agency increases
Value
(quantitative or   0                            6                                     14
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2001                   12/31/2010                            11/11/2008
Comments                                                                              ARSM data.
(incl. %                                                                              End of project target
achievement)                                                                          met and exceeded.
Indicator 5:       Total number of MFI clients/members increases
Value
(quantitative or   124,177                      300,000                               400,754
qualitative)
                                                                                      12/31/2008
Date achieved      10/31/2004                   12/31/2010


                                                      viii
                                                                                       Actual Value
                                                 Original Target     Formally
                                                                                        Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from     Revised Target
                                                                                  Completion or Target
                                               approval documents)    Values
                                                                                           Years
                                                                                  Latest available data.
                                                                                  End of project target
Comments
                                                                                  met and
(incl. %
                                                                                  exceeded.
achievement)
                                                                                  End of project target
                                                                                  unlikely to be met.
Indicator 6:       Number of female MFI clients/members increases
Value
(quantitative or   62,172                          170,000                             231,860
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                      12/31/2010                          12/31/2008
Comments                                                                               Latest available data.
(incl. %                                                                               End of project target
achievement)                                                                           met and exceeded.
Indicator 7 :      Value of deposit (current and savings) accounts at MFIs increases
Value
(quantitative or   CFAF 3,389.62 million           F CFA 8,000 million                 CFAF 9,290 million
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                      12/31/2010                          12/31/2008
Comments                                                                               Latest available data.
(incl. %                                                                               End of project likely to
achievement)                                                                           be met.
Indicator 8:       Number of accounts at Postal Bank increases
Value
(quantitative or   120,000                         135,000                             120,000
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                      12/31/2010                          11/11/2008
                                                                                       Baseline Data.
Comments                                                                               Target not met.
(incl. %                                                                               Government has
achievement)                                                                           renounced to create a
                                                                                       Postal Bank.
Indicator 9:       CNSS current deficit declines
Value
(quantitative or   CFAF 1.6 billion                CFAF 0.5 billion                    CFAF 3.6 billion
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                      12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                                                                                       Latest available data
                                                                                       from CNSS.
                                                                                       Actuarial study and
                                                                                       audit of CNSS
Comments
                                                                                       has been completed.
(incl. %
                                                                                       However,
achievement)
                                                                                       implementation of
                                                                                       recommendations will
                                                                                       take place after the
                                                                                       closure of the project.
Indicator 10:      Number of people participating in capacity building events
Value              0                           900                                     1135

                                                        ix
                                                                                  Actual Value
                                              Original Target     Formally
                                                                                  Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value        Values (from     Revised Target
                                                                               Completion or Target
                                            approval documents)    Values
                                                                                     Years
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004               12/31/2010                            11/30/2010
Comments
                                                                                  End of project target
(incl. %
                                                                                  met and exceeded.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
           Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP               Disbursements
           Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
   1      05/27/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.00
   2      12/15/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    1.44
   3      06/30/2005          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    3.46
   4      12/30/2005          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    4.14
   5      04/14/2006          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    4.67
   6      06/29/2006          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             4.92
   7      12/29/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             6.26
   8      05/31/2007      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             7.49
   9      12/20/2007      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             7.91
  10      06/19/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             8.21
  11      12/17/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             9.16
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  12      06/29/2009                                                                            9.49
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  13      12/28/2009                                                                           10.17
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  14      05/31/2010                                                                           10.41
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  15      01/04/2011                                                                           12.29
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring

N/A




                                                    x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1   Context at Appraisal

1.     At the time of appraisal, the limited reach and capacity of the financial sector in Niger
was seen as a major constraint to economic development. The financial sector, which was
composed of eight commercial banks, four insurance companies, 178 micro-finance
institutions, postal financial services, a social security institution, three stock brokers and a
stock exchange, had the following features:

  -   The banking sector which accounted for 62 percent of the sector’s total assets of the
      sector was fragile and highly concentrated. Banks mainly offered short term credits
      which were concentrated in the service and trade sectors, followed by mining.
      Capacity was very low and bank personnel at all levels were poorly trained and lacked
      knowledge of bank operations.

  -   The development of microfinance institutions was somewhat haphazard, driven by
      support from donors, who intervened without much coordination. Financial
      cooperatives suffered from weak internal structures and a lack of professional staff.
      Their experience with loan recovery was mixed and their reach left much to be
      desired.

  -   The postal checking services, which could play an important role in a mostly rural
      country, conducted limited activities; while the postal savings bank had altogether
      ceased operations.

  -   None of the insurance companies met all of the prudential norms set up by
      Conference Inter-Africaine des Marchés d’Assurance (CIMA), the regional regulator.
      The two largest companies were in need of a substantial recapitalization and the
      newest companies suffered from poor management and a weak financial position.

  -   There were almost no operations in the Niamey segment of the regional stock
      exchange; nor had much been done to familiarize the population with the operations
      and with the possibilities offered by the stock exchange.

  -   The social security institution suffered from a lack of autonomy from the State,
      absence of separate management of branches, excessive operating costs and structural
      deficits.

2.     Financial sector restructuring and deepening was discussed in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in 2003. The CAS identified ―[a] weak financial
sector [that] does not allow for adequate mobilization of domestic resources, nor for
financing of private sector and rural development, housing, health care or education." The
project was included in the lending program outlined in the CAS. The Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) recognized the need to strengthen its cross-cutting role so that it can
provide support for all sectors of economic activity. A two phase process was considered
necessary to restore a healthy and competitive financial sector and an environment
conducive to financial sector development. Phase I entailed efforts to stabilize the financial
sector and strengthen the legal and judicial environment. Phase II, which was managed by

                                               1
the project, largely involved developing intermediate financial intermediation of proximity
(postal financial services and micro-finance) as well as developing the social security system
and capacity building.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

3.     The original development objective of the project was to improve the efficiency,
reach and depth of the Niger financial system so that it could contribute to economic growth
and poverty reduction. The specific objectives were to: i) improve the efficiency of the
banking system and the insurance industry in the support of private sector and household
needs; ii) increase the number of financial institutions of proximity and their clientele; and
iii) improve the capacity of the financial sector to deliver financial services.

4.     These objectives would be measured by the following indicators: i) increase in
financial depth; ii) reduction in cost of financial intermediation; iii) increased number of
healthy Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs); and iv) increase in customer satisfaction. The
output consisted of diagnostic studies to help formulate appropriate reform strategies,
adoption of new laws and judicial reforms pertaining to financial sector development and
institutional restructuring and capacity building for financial industry key stakeholders.

1.3    Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

5.    The project’s objectives were not revised, but the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
were formally amended twice. In April 2008, a Level II restructuring of the project took
place with the first extension of the closing date, during which the results framework and
key performance indicators were revised, as the Government agreed on three additional
benchmarks against which progress would be assessed at project completion. In June 2009,
the performance indicators were again revised in response to the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG)’s review in December, 2008. To enhance alignment with PDO, the quality
assessment recommended that the existing indicators be strengthened in terms of expected
outcomes, and that capacity-building activities be better assessed. In addition, mandatory
core performance indicators were subsequently added to the KPIs.

6.     Following the above mentioned revision, Project Benefits were measured through an
assessment of the following PDO indicators: i) increase in financial depth, ii) increase in
efficiency of banks, iii) increased share of private sector credit to GDP; and iv) reduction in
cost of financial intermediation. A summary of the different revisions is provided in Table 1.

                    Table 1: Original and revised PDO indicators 1

                    PDO Indicators                            Original          Revised
Increased Financial Depth M2/GDP                                 x             continued
Increase in Ratio of Private Sector Credit to GDP                           Added in 2008
Decrease in Cost of Financial Intermediation                      x           continued
Increase in Efficiency of banks (Profit/Loan portfolio)                     Added in 2009
Increase in number of healthy Micro Finance                       x            dropped
Institutions. (by 15 percent over the life of the project).
Improvement in Customer Satisfaction over the life of             x             dropped
the project
                                              2
1.4      Main Beneficiaries

7.     Primary target groups were population and institutional categories whose needs were
not catered to by the financial sector. It included least favored groups, Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs), and rural communities. By promoting a more diversified and deeper
financial sector with increased reach, the project aimed to contribute to economic growth,
private sector development and employment creation. By extending the reach of the sector
through larger geographic penetration and better adapted products, the project was expected
to contribute to poverty alleviation. Consumers were to have improved access to greater and
more efficient financial services. In particular, the creation of the postal bank (FINAPOSTE)
and the strengthening of microfinance institutions were intended to provide people of all
walks of life with the resources they required (through better access to their own savings or
through small credits) for the purchase of essential goods and services, school supplies,
malaria treatment, etc. Businesses -- large and small -- were to benefit from better sources of
financing and from insurance against a variety of risks (accident, theft, fire, etc.). Finally, the
project was expected to benefit the Government indirectly by increasing its fiscal resources
because of the increased financial and economic activity it would generate.

1.5      Original Components

8.     The project was originally implemented through six components: (a) strengthening of
the environment within which financial institutions operate; (b) restructuring of the banking
sector; (c) development of financial intermediation of proximity; (d) social security reform;
(e) capacity building; and (f) project management.

Component 1 - Strengthening of the environment. (US$1.87 million)

9.       Activities aimed at strengthening the environment included:
     -   Funding for consultants to assist with i) the legislative changes required to allow
         issuing land titles on vacant properties, ii) the development of guarantees better
         adapted to rural areas, and iii) the strengthening of urban and rural land registries;
     -   Funding for actions included in the multi-donor reform program and directly related
         to the financial sector (training of magistrates, lawyers, bailiffs on financial sector
         issues, seminar on justice and financial institutions, modernization of the judiciary
         record);
     -   Funding for the publication and diffusion of the third edition of the official Gazette;
     -   Funding for a consultant to conduct a study on the constraints to SME financing, and
         for the implementation of some of the recommendation.

Component 2 - Banking restructuring (US$1.61 million)

10. Through this component, the project set out to monitor progress with the restructuring
of two banks already underway when the project was prepared, but its main focus was on
Crédit du Niger (CDN) and Caisse de Prêt aux Collectivités Térritoriales (CPCT) (technical
assistance and payment of rights of dismissed workers). Additionally, the project sought to
finance the preparation of a social housing financing strategy and participate in the first
phase of its implementation.




                                                3
Component 3 - Development of financial intermediation of proximity (US$4.355 million)

11.    Through this component, the project aimed to assist with:
  -    The implementation of key recommendations of the financial and organizational
       audits of the main MFIs undertaken under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF);
   -   The strengthening of the supervisory microfinance unit: (a) financing technical
       assistance for two years to help organize the unit, define its work program and
       developing procedure manuals; conduct with unit staff on-and off-site supervision;
       transfer skills to unit staff; (b) purchase of equipment; and (c) training of unit staff;
   -   The restructuring of the post office, and its associated costs (technical assistance
       payment of rights of dismissed workers and equipment) and creation of FINAPOSTE.

Component 4 - Social security reform (US$0.85 million)

12. Under the social security reform component the project was to finance an actuarial
audit, technical assistance to implement some of the audit recommendations and the
payment of rights of Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale (CNSS) laid-off workers.

Component 5 - Capacity building (US$2.42 million)

13. The project was to fund training for commercial banks and insurance companies (50
percent of costs), training of staff at the microfinance unit within the Ministry of Finance, at
the post office, and at the postal financial services subsidiary. The project was to also fund a
resident adviser for the Minister of Finance, provide assistance to the Departments of
Insurance and Credit at the Ministry, to the bankers' association and contribute to the
reinsertion programs of dismissed workers under other components.

Component 6 - Project management (US$1.245 million)

14. This component covered salaries, and other operating expenses of the project
management unit as well as some training for project staff.

1.6    Revised Components

15. Project components were never formally revised. However, components 3 and 5 have
been altered as follows:
  - With the early closure in June 2007 of the IFAD-funded project which was providing
      assistance to main MFIs networks, the project extended its support to the
      microfinance sector. As such, audits of several microfinance networks and institutions
      have been completed; training and equipment were provided to MFIs and the
      professional microfinance (ANIP-MF); (component 3 and 5)
  - Dialogue with the Government allowed the team to convince the authorities to go
      beyond strengthening of the microfinance unit and to create an autonomous institution
      dedicated to the oversight of the booming microfinance sector. The Microfinance
      Regulatory and Supervisory Agency Agence de Régulation et de Supervision de la
      Microfinance (ARSM) was hence created in lieu of strengthening the existing
      microfinance unit within the Ministry of Economy and Finance (component 3 )




                                              4
1.7     Other significant changes

16.   The project closing date was extended twice, as follows:

     Extension No. 1: 24-month extension from April 2008 to April 2010: The project
      had experienced delays in completing the restructuring of the CDN, the CPCT and
      FINAPOSTE. The Government of Niger submitted to IDA a request for closing date
      extension setting out a timeline for completing the remaining activities within two
      years and including the following benchmarks/outcomes against which progress
      would be assessed at the end of 12 months of the project extension: (i) The Postal
      Bank (FINAPOSTE) would have been fully established, particularly; (ii) deposits
      frozen since 1992 would be then liquid, and all depositors would have gained access
      to their accounts; (iii) FINAPOSTE would provide saving and payment services using
      the 55 postal branches to increase access to finance in financially underserved areas;
      (iv) The Microfinance Regulatory and Supervisory Agency (ARSM) would be
      strengthened with required staffing and capacity to supervise and monitor
      microfinance institutions (MFIs) efficiently and would be able to adequately perform
      10 on site inspection missions per year; and (v) the local communities' bank (CPCT)
      would have been restructured and resumed its activities of mobilizing and providing
      funds to the local communities as agreed during the Mid Term Review.

      Following extension of project closing date and to accompany the project new focus
      on outcome, the Government requested a reallocation of credit proceeds which was
      agreed to by the International Development Association (IDA).

     Extension No. 2: 8-month extension from April 2010 to December 2010: The
      military coup in February 2010 triggered the Bank’s OP 7.30 policy and delayed a
      number of planned activities. This second extension was mainly provided to allow the
      project to respect its contractual obligations vis-à-vis private sector firms and
      consultants. However the project was also given the opportunity to build on the new
      momentum at the Ministry of Finance to revive the dialogue on financial sector issues
      in general and make further progress towards the attainment of project development
      objectives. In practice, some progress was made but not enough to meet all
      development objectives.

 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17. Relevance of Objectives is High. The global objective of the project was to improve
the efficiency, reach and depth of the Niger financial system so that it could fulfill its
important role of contributing to growth and poverty reduction. At the time of the project
preparation, the 2003 CAS for Niger considered the weakness in the financial sector as one
of the main issues that needed to be addressed in order to create conducive conditions for
economic development in Niger. To that end, an assistance to reform the financial sector
prominently figured in the lending program of the CAS. In addition, the PRSP emphasized
the cross-cutting role of the financial sector and the strong need to address its weaknesses so
that it can help unlock the high potential of some sectors of economic activity in Niger. The

                                              5
    technical underpinnings of this project were financial sector reviews that identified the
    salient issues in the sector that needed to be addressed through the strengthening of the
    environment, the stabilization and deepening of the financial sector. Therefore, the
    objectives of the project were clearly relevant.

    18. Design was too ambitious and complex. The scope of the project was too broad
    given the low institutional capacity within both the Government and the financial sector, and
    also given the country’s poor track record in terms of reforms. Project design at entry
    encompassed too many reforms, most of which were under the sole responsibility of the
    Ministry of Finance. This was despite the fact that past Government commitments to
    undertake some of the same reforms included in the project had never been followed by
    action. By way of illustration, well before project inception, the Government of Niger had
    repeatedly failed to restructure the CDN, despite several commitments to do so, as expressed
    in its letters of economic policy to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The failed
    attempt to privatize SONIDEP was another indication that the Government did not consider
    privatization as the preferred instrument to deal with public enterprises. In retrospect, it
    would have been more efficient to have a more focused operation (e.g. addressing the
    banking sector issues), to enhance chances of success and to build the needed momentum to
    engage the other reforms through subsequent programs.

    19. Risk assessment and mitigation measures were inadequate. The Bank team
    properly identified some of the important risks but failed to provide adequate mitigating
    measures or raise some other risks.

         The critical risks from outputs to objectives: ―Macro-economic stability is not
          maintained‖ and ―Government resolve to pursue financial sector reform is
          weakening‖ were adequately identified. However, the rating of the risk assessment as
          ―Modest‖ was too optimistic for the latter given the above-mentioned poor track
          record of the country. Instead, the team should have rated the risk of reduced
          government commitment to the reform of the financial sector as ―High‖ and
          elaborated more on mitigation measures that were more commensurate with the risks
          presented and its potential negative effect on meeting the PDO. Linking
          implementation of some of the reforms to a DPL was also an option that could have
          helped mitigate the risk of a reduced government commitment for reforms, which the
          team did not initially consider.

         Similarly, though the risks from component to outputs were adequately recognized by
          the team, assessment of some of them was not candid and/or the proposed mitigation
          measures were not adequate. For instance, the risk of slippage in the restructuring
          process of Office Nationale des Postes et de l’Épargne (ONPE) was flagged as
          moderate, while the context and recent history of ONPE clearly indicated that this risk
          was more substantial.1 Other business models such as partnerships at product level


1
   ONPE was established in 1996 as a result of the split of the telecom company from the post office. It brought under one
roof the postal and postal financial services including the postal savings bank (Caisse Nationale d’Epargne) and the postal
checking services (Comptes des Chèques Postaux). This initial reform left a lot of bitterness and feelings of injustice among
the staff and management of ONPE. Indeed, both rightfully considered that the allocation of resources between the two new
entities (SONITEL and ONPE) was unfair and put at serious risk the future of the postal services. Following this
restructuring, SONITEL was allocated with the most valuable assets of the parent company, while ONPE only inherited the
liabilities. For this reason, it was foreseeable that any new attempt to deprive the Postal Services with what was considered
as its unique asset (financial services) would probably trigger serious resistance from the staff and management.

                                                              6
      between the post office and a bank to distribute its products were much more adapted
      to the situation of ONPE and would have certainly triggered much less resistance. The
      mitigation measure ―Ensure the compensation of dismissed workers has been paid and
      maintain dialogue with stakeholders‖, concretely addressed concerns of workers that
      would be laid-off but ignored concerns of remaining staff regarding the future and
      viability of Niger Poste.
     The risk that counterpart funds would be lacking and the project could experience
      delays had been flagged by the team as Substantial. However, to ensure that the
      Government would inscribe these funds in the budget and make them available as
      needed, the team relied on discussions with the Government without providing for
      any mitigating measures. At implementation, when this risk did materialize the Bank
      team had no leverage to convince the Government to respect its commitments and no
      instrument to help resolve the resource-gap for the envisioned reforms. Given the
      budget constraints faced by the Government at the time of preparation, the project
      could well have allocated part of the credit proceeds to the funding of certain
      prerequisite measures to ensure success of the reforms. This would have relieved the
      already strained public resources and mitigated the risks of delays in reforms
      implementation.
20. Lessons learned from previous operations were not fully taken into account. A
key lesson of the Public Sector Adjustment Credit to the Government of Niger was that, in
an environment characterized by the Government's weak institutional and implementation
capacity, along with an unstable political situation, it is important to keep a reform program
design simple. With a reform program spanning over three different subsectors and
articulated around six components the design of this operation did not take this key lesson
from the Niger Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) into account.

21. The team recognized the following three key lessons from past Bank projects: (i) the
need to support the macro-economic reforms by micro-economic actions; (ii) the need to
involve key stakeholders in the early stage of project preparation; (iii) that financial sector
reforms are time consuming and necessitate a realistic timetable. Despite this, some of the
project’s characteristics indicate that these lessons were not fully incorporated into its
design:

     The implementation timetable was unrealistic: The original closing date only allowed
      four years of implementation, which - given the country context and the nature of the
      proposed reforms - was obviously not long enough.

     Consensus-building was not completely achieved during project preparation. It
      seemed that labor unions did not fully endorse the proposed reform of Niger Poste at
      project inception. This led to symbolic acts of protest such as the boycott of the
      meeting the Bank team convened in Paris during preparation to bring together key
      actors of the reform and some acts of passive resistance during implementation of
      activities of this sub-component.
22. Stakeholder analysis was incomplete. Involvement of line ministries is usually
critical in reforming subsectors considered as social services or public good such as pension
schemes or postal services. The project design however paid little attention to the
importance of the Ministry of Communication and the Ministry of Public Administration
(respective line ministries for of Niger Poste and CNSS). Their involvement was necessary
not only to ensure continued government commitment and ownership of the reforms but also

                                              7
to influence the management of these two entities for a diligent implementation of activities.
The Steering Committee was the institutional vehicle for that purpose. However neither of
these two ministries was represented as statutory members of this committee. After the Mid-
Term review, the composition of the committee was amended and full membership extended
to the Ministry of Communication, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry in
charge of Decentralization, which was taking care of the administrative oversight of CPCT.

23. No committed champions were identified for subsectors to be reformed.
Government ownership was mainly based on the strong commitment for reforms of the
Minister of Finance during project preparation. No other champion was identified by the
team to broaden support to the project activities at the Government level.

2.2    Implementation

24. The overall project implementation encountered significant delays due to slow
decision-making on the Government’s side, exacerbated by difficult country conditions (see
below). Delays in project implementation translated into a disbursement lag that reached 36
months.

25. A restructuring of the project to drop the FINAPOSTE activity and reallocate funds to
other activities was recommended by the Mid Term Review (MTR) (recommendation
reiterated by the December, 2007 supervision mission) and later supported by the 2008
Bank-IMF FSAP, despite which project content and structure were never amended. The
Government of Niger strongly resisted the recommendation, and instead committed to have
FINAPOSTE licensed as a bank by end of 2008. As such, despite facing noticeable
implementation difficulties, the project only underwent Level II restructurings to adjust
some of the key performance indicators, reallocate funds and extend the closing date (twice),
which proved insufficient to enable it to achieve its developmental objectives. An
assessment by QAG in December 2008 rated the quality of implementation as moderately
unsatisfactory, pointing to the Government’s failure to undertake many of the agreed actions,
and to weak follow up. Against this background, the second closing date extension (eight
months extension from April to December 2010, following the military coup) did prove to
be marginally useful, as – under a new Minister of Finance - some key activities could be
finalized (including strengthening of ARSM; financial Audits of some microfinance
institutions and of CCP/CNE; and finalization of the actuarial study of the private pension
system (CNSS), but was not long enough to allow the project to demonstrate significantly
improved performance.

26. Factors beyond the Government’s control affected the country’s political and
economic situation and had an impact on the overall implementation of the program. These
included:

     Political turmoil and military coup. In February 2010, Niger went through a
      military coup that ousted President Tandja. This was the consequence of two years of
      political turmoil and economic disruption fostered by President Tandja’s push for a
      change in the constitution to allow him to stand for a third term. This resulted in a
      transition period that ended April 2011.
     Persistent domestic insurgency. A persistent insurgency in the north of the country
      was the focus of the Government’s attention and resources during the period of the
      project and contributed to weaken its commitment for reform.

                                             8
     Recurrent food crisis. Niger experienced two severe food crises (drought induced) in
      2008 and 2010, which commanded the full attention of the Government and
      contributed to serious budget stringency.

27. Factors within the Government’s control that contributed to delays in completing
reforms (and hence meeting the PDOs) included:

     Loss of reform champion. During project preparation, the Minister of Finance
      proved to be a strong champion of the financial sector reform program. However,
      right after effectiveness, the Minister left the Government. The loss of the main
      champion seriously affected the implementation of the reforms, in particular of the
      postal services, CDN and pension scheme.

     High turnover at the Ministry of Communication: Five different Ministers of
      Communication were appointed during project implementation. This introduced an
      element of instability within the line Ministry that affected the continuity required to
      build ownership of the proposed reform of ONPE and create an effective champion
      for reform implementation.

     Lack of needed resources to implement the reforms: The Government repeatedly
      failed to include in the budget and make available the needed funds that it had
      committed to provide for the following activities: i) payment of the postal debts of
      Niger Poste, and ii) payment of the capital of FINAPOSTE.

     Ineffective Project Steering Committee. During the project’s life, the committee did
      not provide the effective oversight it was expected to deliver. It lacked proactivity and
      was unable to ensure continued ownership of the reforms by the key stakeholders.
      Moreover, the Government’s tendency to bypass the steering committee and set up ad
      hoc committees to deal with specific issues arising during implementation contributed
      to further undermine its credibility and its authority.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

      2.3.1   M&E design

28. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The M&E framework at entry had shortcomings,
especially problems in attributing results for many of the indicators directly to the project
(e.g. for interest rate spreads, which are a function of various cost and margin factors; or
financial sector depth and credit to private sector, which are similarly influenced by a
number of factors, micro and macro). As such, the framework did not provide the grounds to
allow an accurate measurement of project specific contribution to achievement of its
developmental objectives.

      2.3.2   M&E Implementation

29. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. In response to the recommendations of the 2008
QAG review, the team introduced in 2009 a revised set of indicators. At that time, the
quality of the data provided was satisfactory and the source was deemed adequate. However,
submission of the updated KPIs was problematic and overall quality of the progress reports
was mixed. The Project Management Unit (PCU) did not provide proper follow-up for the

                                             9
    impact evaluation survey of the capacity building component. As a consequence, the survey
    encountered significant delays.


    2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

    30. Safeguards: The project primarily aimed at providing technical support to the
    government financial sector adjustment program. As such it was a Category C project which
    triggered no safeguard policies.

    31. Financial management: The overall performance of the project financial
    management is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project complied overall with the
    covenants stated in the loan agreement. The financial audits were submitted on time and
    issues raised by auditors were properly addressed by project management. The financial
    management system was deemed adequate to provide reasonable assurance that the Bank
    loan proceeds were being used for the intended purposes. Difficulties to mobilize the
    counterpart funds adversely affected the performance of the project’s financial management
    function.

    32. Procurement: The overall performance of the project procurement management is
    rated Moderately Satisfactory. The procurement function was overseen in situ by the
    resident procurement specialist and sometimes by a procurement specialist from the regional
    procurement office at headquarters who helped resolve challenges as they arose. There were
    some delays in the follow-up of supervision mission’s recommendations. Procurement
    processes sometimes experienced delays.

     3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

    33. The objectives supported by this project are still highly relevant to the country’s
    priorities and reflected in the Bank’s current CAS for Niger. The country’s priority as stated
    in the PRSP and the 2008 CAS was to achieve strong, diversified and job-creating growth.
    Improving the efficiency, reach and depth of the financial system was expected to contribute
    to private sector-led and diversified growth, thereby enhancing job creation.

    34. Overall design of individual components was oriented towards attainment of the
    project’s development objectives. However some of the proposed institutional reforms
    needed more in-depth analysis. The technical underpinnings of the project, consisting of
    financial sector reviews, helped identify the needed reforms but provided little guidance on
    the way the envisioned institutional reforms should be crafted. For example, in the case of
    the financial services component, further analysis was necessary to inform the team on the
    most adequate choice among the possible business models2. Instead the team relied on a
    ―one size fits all approach‖ and apparently selected the business model implemented in Cape


2
  Possible business models for the postal financial services included: Postal bank as subsidiary of Niger Poste, direct
government ownership, partnerships at product level between the Niger Poste and a bank to distribute its products or joint-
ventures with technical or financial strategic partners.



                                                             10
Verde and recommended by an international seminar on postal services reforms. In 2009,
following the Government’s inability to establish FINAPOSTE, some of the alternative
options outlined by the 2008 Niger FSAP were presented to the Government, which
however declined to consider them.

35. Similarly, in the case of the reform of CPCT, after the MTR and based on the findings
of a study commissioned by the project, the initial option of trying to create a healthy bank
out of CPCT was abandoned and an agency for the funding of local communities established
instead.

3.2   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Project did not achieve its development
objectives of improving the efficiency, reach and depth of the Niger Financial System so
that it could fulfill its important role of contributing to growth and poverty reduction. Some
key activities were closed ahead of time and the allocated funds cancelled so that they could
be reallocated to the country program. The PDO is rated moderately unsatisfactory, in line
with the closing Implementation Status Report (ISR), as - of the four project outcome
indicators, only two were met at the project closure, and that too with significant difficulty
in establishing attribution to the role of the project:

37. Increase in the share of private sector credit. The share of private sector credit to
GDP did increase from the baseline value at project inception (2004) of 6.05 percent to
14.03 percent, as of December 2010, against a target of 13 percent. It was expected that
alleviating the constraints to access to credit for the private sector would contribute to
increasing the share of private sector credit to GDP. However, given the nature and pace of
implementation of the project’s interventions (capacity building and institution development
in the micro-finance industry, and provision of training to financial institutions) it is clear
that these were not the main driving force behind the significant surge of credit to the private
sector recorded during the period. In fact the joint WB-IMF Financial Sector Assessment
conducted in Niger in 2008 documented the fact that growth of credit to the economy was
mainly driven by the increase in credit demand from the mining, telecommunications,
construction, and transportation sectors. Overall, credit to the economy grew by an annual
average of 25 percent between 2005 and 2007. As such, the causal relationship between the
project’s intervention and this outcome appears to be weak.

38. Increase in Financial Depth. Financial depth, measured by M2/GDP, improved
from 15.82 percent in 2004 to 21.86 percent at project closing, exceeding the end-of-project
target of 18 percent. At appraisal it was conceived that project would positively impact the
financial depth in Niger by supporting the creation of the postal bank, the restructuring of
the housing and the local communities’ banks and the reinforcement of microfinance
institutions. Given that none of these activities was successfully completed, it is likely that
this outcome had little to do with the project. As such, there is no clear evidence that project
assistance contributed to the achievement of this development objective.

39. Reduction in cost of financial intermediation. This objective was not met. Despite
slight improvement, intermediation cost margins (8.3 percent as of December 2010)
remained above the end-of-project target set at 8 percent.




                                              11
40. Increase in banking efficiency. Bank profitability did not improve. As of December
2010, the ratio of profits over loan portfolio was 10.3 percent, well below the end-of-project
target of 12 percent.

41. In summary, project achievements were mixed: Out of four development outcome
indicators, only two were met. Furthermore there is no compelling evidence that the project
interventions have contributed to an increased credit to the private sector private or financial
depth recorded during the project implementation. On the plus side, analysis of the
components presented in Annex 2 suggests that though PDO was not attained, the project
did contribute by paving the way to an improved legal environment, as well as towards a
better-performing social security system.

3.3   Efficiency

42. Given the technical assistance orientation of the project, it was not possible to
quantify its potential benefits at entry. Instead of a standard economic analysis, the team
provided a set of potential outcomes against which the contribution of the project could be
assessed. After project closure, most of the expected benefits did not materialize: (a) Higher
economic growth fostered by a more efficient financial sector the majority of the expected
benefits was not achieved; (b) Access to financial services in remote areas did not improve;
and (c) There was no evidence of reduction in government spending through reduced
subsidies to loss-making public financial institutions (or of increased revenues arising from
increased economic activity). Furthermore, because of the failure to set up the postal bank,
the project did not contribute in this way to private sector development and poverty
alleviation in rural areas as expected. In the end, the cost of IDA borrowing by the
Government may have outweighed the net economic and social benefits in terms of
increased growth, private sector development of rural areas, etc.

43. Project management was not cost effective, given the overall performance of the
project and the PCU. At project closure, the actual cost of project management was found to
have been 230 percent higher than the appraisal estimates. It accounted for 22 percent of the
total resources of the project, well above the 8.4 percent estimate at appraisal and the
standard average of 10 percent for projects in the region.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

44. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The overall rating of the project is Moderately
Unsatisfactory. Although the development objectives of the project were (and are still)
relevant to the priorities of the Government of Niger, and were aligned with the Bank’s
assistance strategy, inadequacies in design at entry, inadequate follow-up and slow decision-
making by the Government seriously hindered attainment of the PDO. As a result, the
project did not contribute to improving financial sector efficiency and depth through a
successful restructuring of CDN and CPCT (respectively the housing and the local
communities’ bank). Neither did it contribute to expanding access to financial services in
financially underserved areas with the establishment of the postal bank. This rating is also a
composite of a Moderately Satisfactory rating of the components on ―strengthening the
environment‖, ―capacity building‖ and ―reforming the social security‖, an Unsatisfactory
rating for the ―banking restructuring‖ component and a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for
the component on ‖financial intermediation of proximity‖. Finally the Moderately


                                              12
Unsatisfactory rating of the project overall outcome is echoed by the efficiency analysis
which found that the resources appeared not to have been efficiently used.

45. It is important to note that, despite difficulties encountered in implementing key
reforms of the project, the financial services of proximity component did contribute to the
successful establishment of the regulatory and supervision body of the microfinance industry.
In addition, the capacity building component has helped finance a significant amount of
training for financial institutions and has according to beneficiaries, contributed to
strengthening the capacity of their staff and increasing customer satisfaction. Project support
has also paved the way for the parametric reform of the social security system.

3.5   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

  a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

46. The project was expected to have an important positive social impact by bringing
financial services to remote localities and smaller customers through the development of
financial intermediation of proximity (postal services and to a lesser extent micro finance).
No socio impact study has been conducted. However given that FINAPOSTE was not
created direct social effects are below what was expected at project inception.

  b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

47. The project has contributed to institutional strengthening of the financial sector
through the establishment of a regulatory agency for the microfinance sector and delivery of
extensive capacity building for banks and insurance companies. At closing, ARSM, the
regulatory body for microfinance was fully operational and successfully performing its
supervision mandate. The project supported hiring and salaries payment of 10 staff who
received training to strengthen their capacities. To build the capacity of ARSM, the project
also financed the acquisition of the required assets to make the agency fully operational.
This included furniture and other office equipment such as computers, printers, scanners,
photocopiers etc. Training and technical services provided to financial institutions under the
―capacity building‖ sub-component‖ has, according to responses provided by beneficiaries
to a questionnaire, increased efficiency in the sector. This has ultimately translated into
improved service delivery.

  c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

      N/A.

3.6   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

      N/A

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
48. The risk that development outcomes are not maintained is high. The Niger FSTA
project has helped set up the ARSM which, at closing, was fully operational and well-
grounded in the financial institutional structure of the country. Possible institutional

                                             13
restructuring of the Ministry of Finance envisioned by the Government would put at risk the
existence of the ARSM. The Government is planning to set up at the Ministry of Finance
level, an entity to oversee the microfinance industry, which could in the long run take over
the supervision mandate of ARSM or at least restrict its independence and autonomy - which
are critical ingredients of its success. In addition, in the current configuration, the financial
autonomy of ARSM - whose operational costs of the agency were supported by the project –
is still a risk (though recent developments indicate one favorable development: that
parliament has voted to allocate financial resources to ARSM from the current government
budget). In the long run, the financial autonomy of ARSM can best be mitigated by
transforming the organization into an Etablissement Public à caractère Administratif (EPA).

  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

      a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

49. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The PDO was consistent with the Government’s
priorities and the Bank’s strategy at project inception. The main issues to be addressed were
properly identified, building on an in-depth analysis of the sector commissioned by the
Government. However, project design was too broad, given the weak institutional capacity
in Niger. Major lessons derived from previous Bank operations were not factored in the
design of the project. Risks were not adequately identified and the mitigation measures were
not commensurate with the risks assessment. In addition, the implementation arrangements
were not adequately conceived as some key stakeholders for instance were ignored in the
composition of the steering committee. Finally, the M&E framework designed at entry was
not adequate for a proper follow-up of performance of project activities. The Bank’s
performance in ensuring quality at entry is therefore rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

      b) Quality of Supervision

50. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. Supervision was conducted regularly, with
approximately two missions per year. There were three Task Team Leaders (TTLs) over the
course of the project life, with the last TTL located in the field. Moreover the continued
presence of the first TTL in the task team ensured continuity in the dialogue with the client.
Most of the missions were staffed with the right skills mix. The project also benefited from
continued support from the country manager in the field, especially in facilitating the
dialogue with the Government. During supervision missions, the project team maintained
close dialogue with the IMF and other donors involved in financial sector activities in Niger.
However the efforts to engage the IMF on envisioned policy reforms did not foster
additional support to advance project implementation.

51. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were regularly updated. Management regularly
commented on the ISRs and provided guidance to the team. However, the overall
performance ratings given in these ISRs may have been too optimistic considering the
project delays and slow implementation of some of the activities. Implementation Progress
and Development Objective ratings were Satisfactory between 2004 and 2006 and
Moderately Satisfactory between 2006 and 2008. Following the QAG report’s
recommendation in 2008, the DO rating was further downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory. The QAG panel had found that the project team had not been candid enough

                                              14
in its assessment as regards the situation in Niger, failing to highlight that the Government
was dealing with some important factors that affected project implementation, such as the
insurgency in Northern Niger and the famine in the country.

52. The Bank’s focus on development effectiveness was mixed. The task team provided
sound and generally appropriate technical advice to the Government, as exemplified in the
case of the privatization of CDN. The team raised in a timely manner issues on the real
capacity of the strategic partner (NIA) selected by the authorities, and these early warnings
ultimately did materialize. As a consequence, the Banking Commission repeatedly declined
to grant a license to NIA on the same grounds initially raised by the task team. However the
Bank team failed to adequately address significant implementation delays encountered by
the project, particularly regarding the postal services component. The nature of problems
identified at the time by the team (reduced commitment for some of the reforms, slow
decision making), in retrospect called for more radical solutions than the Level II
restructuring that was conducted (resulting in some re-allocation of funds between
components, some new indicators and closing date extension).

53. After the Mid-Term Review, despite the Government’s objection to dropping
FINAPOSTE and the team’s conviction that the postal bank component would not advance;
it was nevertheless decided to extend the project, as originally designed, for another two
years. With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the extension should have been
predicated at the very least on the closing of the most problematic component, i.e. the postal
bank; which was not done.

54. Disbursement, financial management and procurement issues were raised in an
adequate and timely manner by the team. Recommendations for improvement were
adequately reflected in Aide Memoires. However, follow-up of procurement related
recommendations experienced some delays.

55. Overall, the quality of supervision was not fully adequate. QAG recognized that the
task team was competent, diligent and dedicated and worked to extract the maximum of
results in a difficult and deteriorating environment. However, the team could have been
more proactive by forcefully pursuing a deeper restructuring of the project when it became
obvious that maintaining the status quo would definitely compromise attainment of
development objectives.

  c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

56. Shortcomings in project design, negatively affecting its ability to attain its objectives;
and inadequacies in the quality of supervision (lack of candor and inability to go through
with the restructuring of the project), notwithstanding the team’s efforts in a difficult
political context, mean that overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2   Borrower Performance

  a) Government Performance

57. Rating: Unsatisfactory. At project preparation and inception, government was
committed and displayed ownership of the proposed reform agenda. The Minister of Finance
of the time was the main champion for the overall project. Unfortunately he left the

                                             15
government just after project effectiveness. Subsequently, ownership and support at
government level for the project and its proposed reforms dwindled. Drought-induced
famine and local insurgency further contributed to distract government attention and
resources from the project. In addition, the project’s Steering Committee proved to be rather
ineffective, unable to play its role of overseeing the project and securing continued
government ownership of reforms during project implementation. This, combined with the
country’s low institutional capacity and its subsequent slow decision-making process,
contributed to delaying project implementation and jeopardizing attainment of PDO.
Consequently, overall, government’s performance was Unsatisfactory.

(b)   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

58. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project was implemented by a project
coordinating unit mostly staffed with committed and qualified personnel. The PCU enjoyed
stability with the same coordinator being in charge during project life. However it proved
unable to influence speed of decision making on government side or influence policy makers
on specific reforms or choices. The coordination between PCU and the four implementing
agencies was not effective mainly due to inefficient communication. Limited interactions
between these entities did not allow early identification of bottlenecks and swift design of
adequate solutions. Besides, lack of information on procedures and eligibility conditions for
the training matching grant have been repeatedly raised by beneficiaries. The quality of the
management of the other functions of the PCU was uneven. Fiduciary management is rated
moderately satisfactory. Procurement process experienced sometimes important delays. Its
performance is rated moderately satisfactory. With regards to financial management, audit
reports were submitted on time and the accounting system was properly managed. The M&E
function is rated unsatisfactory; as some shortfalls were repeatedly reported by the team but
remained unresolved. For instance key performance indicators were not updated on a regular
basis.

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

59. Government’s inconsistent commitment and its corollaries in terms of slow decision-
making and inadequate follow-up negatively affected performance of the project. This
coupled with moderately unsatisfactory performance of the PCU led to Unsatisfactory
rating of the Borrower’s overall performance.

  6. Lessons Learned
Implementation of the project provided the following two key lessons:

60. Projects in countries with weak implementation capacity should be kept simple,
focused and realistic: The scope of the project was too ambitious in relation to the
implementation capacity of the Government and the history of reform programs in the
country. The project needed to achieve fairly wide-ranging reform in various sectors.
Reforms such as postal services reforms called not only for government commitment but
also for active consensus-building to ensure buy-in by key stakeholders, the need for which
was underestimated at the outset. As a consequence, the project closing date was extended
twice but performance did not improve, mainly because of poor implementation on the
Government’s side.


                                            16
61. Technical Assistance projects aimed at supporting complex reforms need to be
complemented by budget support operations: Reforms requiring important financial
resources should not be contingent on infusion of resources from the government. Non-
payment by Government of postal arrears and difficulties in mobilizing the capital of
FINAPOSTE contributed to delaying the establishment of the postal bank. Instead, such
reforms could have been linked to a parallel policy operation that would also provide
additional leverage to the Bank during implementation.

Other useful lessons learned from the project include:

62. Building a strong constituency of support for reforms is critical: Reduced
government commitment for reforms (following departure from the Government of the
project’s leading champion) and weak support of the proposed reform of postal services by
the labor unions contributed to its delayed implementation. For projects supporting reforms
especially in highly unionized sectors it is critical to seek out several champions, at various
governmental levels, whilst ensuring ownership and commitment for the reforms across the
board.

63.     Implementation arrangements should be conducive to continued ownership of
reforms across the board and efficient interactions between implementing agencies.
Project Steering Committees should be inclusive to ensure that all stakeholders are
represented and have high level representatives able to influence and/or accelerate decision
making. Communication between PIU and implementing agencies should be ensured
through regular submission of implementation reports. This will also allow early
identification of implementation problems and formulation of solutions.

  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
     Agencies/Partners
Borrower/implementing agencies
N.A.

Cofinanciers
N.A.

Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N.A.




                                                17
                                  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)1


                                                                         Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                                      Percentage of
             Components                                                  Estimate (USD
                                             (USD millions)                                          Appraisal
                                                                            millions)
 STRENGTHENING THE
                                                         1.87                      0.51
 ENVIRONMENT                                                                                              27%
BANKING RESTRUCTURING                                   1.61                      0.77                    48%
DEVELOPMENT OF
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION                                4.36                      5.72
OF PROXIMITY                                                                                             131%
SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM                                 0.85                       0.44                   52%
CAPACITY BUILDING                                      2.42                       1.73                   71%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                     1.24                       2.85                   230%
Project Preparation advance                            0.95
Audit                                                  0.50
Unallocated                                            1.00
               Total Baseline Cost                    14.80                      12.02                    81%
Physical Contingencies
                                                        0.00                      0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                       0.00                       0.00                    0.00
               Total Project Costs                    14.80                      12.02
Front-end fee PPF                                      0.00                       0.00                     .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00                       0.00                     .00
        Total Financing Required                      14.80                      12.02

Notes: 1: Exchange rate on December 31, 2010: US$1 = 490 FCFA. In January 2004, US$1 = CFAF 514.7.

(b)      Financing


                                                                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                   Type of           Estimate          Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                                 Cofinancing          (USD              (USD       Appraisal
                                                                     millions)         millions)
 Borrower                                                              9.82              2.08        .00
 International Development Association
                                                                        14.80              12.02                 .00
(IDA)
 Foreign Private Commercial Sources
                                                                         0.80              0.001                 .00
(unidentified)
The Project’s accounting system did not capture the contribution of commercial banks and insurance companies to the
training provided to them.




                                                           18
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strengthening of the environment. This component is rated moderately
satisfactory. The project has made substantial progress on the first component. However, its
objectives of improvement of the legal environment hindering access to finance were not
fully achieved. The project financed the realization of a series of studies on collateral,
computerization of trade and credit registries (often with substantial delays). The project also
facilitated the organization of a seminar bringing together magistrates, lawyers, bailiffs and
managers of financial institutions to identify problems with the judiciary in the recovery of
loans and the propose corrective actions. Findings of these studies and seminar fed into an
action plan that could not be implemented before the project closed. As a result, the project
was not able to achieve the expected impact on legal framework pertaining to the
development of the financial sector. It is however noteworthy that the project supported
capacity building for the credit registry with the purchase of equipment and organization of
training sessions for magistrates, bailiffs and lawyers on financial sector issues.
Component 2: Restructuring of Banks: This component is rated unsatisfactory. The project
aimed to support the Government of Niger in restructuring the housing bank (CDN) and the
local communities Bank (CPCT), which were both bankrupt and under interim administration
at project inception. The restructuring of the CDN consisted of transferring bad assets and
attempting to privatize 90 percent of the capital of the restructured bank. Was this attempt to
fail, the CDN was to be liquidated. The project contributed to bringing the CDN to the point
of sale after long delays due to government’s failure to take prerequisite actions (including
the implementation of an MOU settling the government and CDN cross debts). The
Government launched an international tender, after which a potential strategic investor was
identified. Ultimately, the qualified bidder (NIA, an insurance company) proved to be lacking
the necessary technical and financial capacities to secure a banking license from BCEAO.
Slow decision making at government level delayed switching to the second qualified bidder
who was no longer interested when government finally decided to discontinue the
negotiations with NIA. A general Assembly of CDN general Assembly held on December 27,
2010 (three days before project closing date) has decided the liquidation of the bank.
However the WB is yet received any evidence of the implementation of this decision.

The second objective of this component to restructure the CPCT was not met either. During
implementation, the option to create a healthy bank out of CPCT was abandoned and an
agency for the funding of local communities was legally set-up. ANFICT is a public entity
under the authority of the ministry of finance meant to manage the resources and financial
aids for the local communities. Yet again, due to the Government’s slow decision-making
process, the necessary steps to operationalize ANFICT were not taken. The government
failed to appoint the liquidator for CPCT and more importantly hire the key staff for ANFICT.

Component 3: Financial intermediation of proximity. The component is rated moderately
unsatisfactory. The project aimed to enhance access to financial services through support for
the development of microfinance and establishment of a postal bank. While the efforts to
restructure the postal operator and set-up an independent subsidiary for the financial services
did not materialize when the project closed, support from project has helped improve the
quality of microfinance supervision and strengthen the capacity in the sector. Under project
assistance, the Regulation and Supervision agency for the microfinance sector — ARSM was
set-up and fully operational despite long delays induced by lack of follow-up on government
side. After the feasibility study was completed, it took up the Government nine months to
adopt the decree creating the ARSM and almost two years and unnecessarily long technical

                                              19
assistance to operationalize the agency. In hindsight, the cost-effectiveness of establishing the
agency was not satisfactory insofar it could have been completed in a shorter period of time
with much less resources. Failure to establish the financial subsidiary of the postal operator
was a major setback to the attainment of this sub-component’s objective of increasing access
to finance, especially in financially underserved areas. Successful establishment of
FINAPOSTE required several actions from the government including: (i) full and timely
payment of the capital, (ii) payment of international postal debts; (iii) settlement of cross
debts with ONPE; and (iv) issuance of land titles for Niger Poste’s buildings. The lack of
adequate resources and poor follow-up didn’t allow implementation of these actions. In
addition, the business model favored by the project at inception was not probably the most
adequate option given the context in Niger and the number of other reforms the project was
supposed to support.
Component 4: Social Security Reform. This component is rated moderately satisfactory.
This component sought to address the serious difficulties faced by the CNSS ranging from
illiquidity, lack of resources to make all due payments, and high administrative costs
attributable to overstaffing. The approach to meet this objective was twofold: (i) to support a
parametric reform of the scheme; and (ii) to support the restructuring of CNSS including
contribution to the payment of rights of laid-off workers. Objectives were not fully met. Yet,
support under the project has allowed completion of a number of prerequisite activities such
as the update of the scheme’s data base of contributors and beneficiaries and an update of the
existing actuarial study. Because of important delays in completing these studies and
technical assistance, it has not been possible for the Government to engage in negotiations
with beneficiaries on the envisioned parametric reform. Now that the project is closed, the
Government will need to mobilize resources to complete the parametric reform and alleviate
the deficits at the CNSS. Due to political considerations (elections in 2009, military transition
in 2010), the Government shied away from the restructuring of CNSS.

Component 5: Capacity Building. This component is rated moderately satisfactory. This
component supported provision of training and technical services to financial institutions,
funded capacity building within the Ministry of Finance to reinforce units responsible for the
monitoring and supervision of financial institutions, and provided IT equipment to several
beneficiaries. The facility dedicated to provision of co-financed training and technical
services to financial institutions was highly subscribed. Responses to the questionnaire sent to
beneficiaries to assess the impact of training and technical assistance suggests substantial
improvement in these institutions day-to-day operations and increase in customers’
satisfaction. This component has also contributed to building the capacity of the ARSM and
provided IT equipment to a wide range of beneficiaries. However, some beneficiaries
complained that the equipment was not always tailored to their needs and that no
maintenance contract was made available.




                                               20
                                      Table 2: Outputs by component
             Component                                               Output
   1. Strengthening of the environment
                                          Seminar bringing together magistrates, lawyers, bailiffs and
                                  managers of financial institutions to identify problems with the judiciary
                                  hindering financial sector development and the propose corrective actions
1. Reforming the financial legal          Study on collaterals
   environment                            Study on modernization of the trade and credit registry
                                          Action plan for the reform of the financial sector legal framework
                                          Capacity building for magistrates bailiffs and financial sector
                                  actors
   2. Restructuring of the banks
                                          ANFICT the agency for the funding of local communities has
                                  been legally set-up but is not operational yet. Assets of CPCT have been
   2.1 restructuring of CPCT
                                  identified and will be transferred to ANFICT when CPCT is liquidated.

                                         A general Assembly of CDN general Assembly held on
   2.2 Restructuring of CDN         December 27, 2010 has decided the liquidation of the bank. However the
                                    WB has received no evidence of the implementation of this decision.
   3. Financial Intermediation of proximity
   3.1 Supporting microfinance            Audits for the main microfinance institutions were conducted
   sector                                 ARSM is created and fully operational
                                          Bonds have been issued by the Government to collateralize
                                   public deposits frozen after the former CCP ceased activities in 1992;
   3.2 Restructuring of ONPE              First phase of the reimbursement of the deposits of former CNE
   and establishment of the postal has been completed (FCFA 1,555,873,642 out of FCFA 2,067,444,599
   bank.                           released by government)
                                          Second Phase (including accrued interests) has started August
                                   2010.
   4. Social Security
                                           Update of the beneficiaries and contributors database of CNSS
                                           Update of the actuarial study
   5. Capacity Building
                                           co-financing of training, and seminars for financial institutions
                                           Provision of IT equipment to selected project beneficiaries
                                    (Micro finance institutions, implementing agencies, ARSM, etc.)




                                                       21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
  (including assumptions in the analysis)




                   22
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)     Task team members

                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Fatiha Amar                   Program Assistant                    MNSSD
Itchi Gnon Ayindo             Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Helene Bertaud                Sr Counsel                           LEGAF
Jacqueline Christian Issifi   E T Temporary                        AFMNE
Mariama Daifour Ba            Program Assistant                    AFTP3
                                                                   AFTFS-
Jonathan Isaac Darboux        Financial Sector Spec.
                                                                    HIS
Isabelle Huynh                Operations Officer                   TWICT
Aissa Idi Kimba               Temporary                            AFMNE
Djibrilla Adamou Issa         Sr Financial Sector Spec.            AFTFW
Sidonie Jocktane              Executive Assistant                  AFMGA
Djimossoumta Kondol           Voice Secondee                       AFTFP
Salifou Noma                  Temporary                            AFMNE
Korotoumou Ouattara           Sr Financial Economist               AFTFW
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao     Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Andre Ryba                    Lead banking specialist              AFTFW
Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi       Procurement Specialist               AFTPC
Fily Sissoko                  Lead Financial Management Spec       AFTFM
Helen Giorghis Taddese        Temporary                            AFTAR
Yao Wottor                    Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Mamadou Yaro                  Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM


(b)     Staff Time and Cost


                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                           11                           33.19
  FY03                                           33                          128.50
  FY04                                           19                           85.22
  FY05                                            2                            0.86
  FY06                                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                                         0.00
  FY08                                                                         0.00
                              Total:             65                          247.77


                                               23
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                  17                            96.81
  FY06                                  26                           126.00
  FY07                                  26                           146.31
  FY08                                  16                            95.46


                         Total:         85                           464.58




                                      24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)




                25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)




                      26
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Synthèse du Rapport Final de l’Evaluation Interne Préparatoire à l’Elaboration du
Rapport de fin d’exécution (Rapport d’achèvement) du Projet d’Assistance Technique
pour le Développement du Secteur Financier (PDSF).

Le Projet de Développement du Secteur Financier (PDSF) a été conçu et financé
conjointement entre le Niger et l’IDA pour apporter une assistance technique au secteur
financier nigérien. Il a démarré théoriquement ses activités le 30 avril 2004 et devrait les
cesser le 31 décembre 2010. C’est dans le cadre de l'achèvement de ce projet qu'une
évaluation interne a été organisée. Le rapport de cette mission d’évaluation se présente
comme ci-après :

Contexte général, justification du projet et de l’évaluation interne de fin d’exécution du
PDSF
Les indicateurs économiques et de développement humain font du Niger un des pays les plus
défavorisés.
Au moment de l'élaboration du PDSF, le Niger comptait 8 banques commerciales, 4 sociétés
d'assurance, une institution financière postale, une caisse de sécurité sociale, quatre vingt (80)
institutions de micro finance et 3 agences de change sans compter une bourse régionale de
valeurs avec une antenne à Niamey. Ce secteur financier éprouvait de sérieuses difficultés
caractérisées entre autres, par une chute de la masse monétaire de 31%, des crédits de 50% et
des fonds en dépôt de 42% entre 1988 et 1998. La situation était aussi préoccupante au
niveau des autres sous -secteurs comme les assurances, la poste, la sécurité sociale et les
institutions de micro finance. Ce contexte défavorable est le reflet de la dégradation des
performances économiques du pays et de son environnement des affaires.
Les autorités du Niger avec l'appui de leurs partenaires techniques et financiers ont convenu
d'inscrire la réforme du secteur financier dans le cadre de la stratégie de réduction de la
pauvreté SRP.
 Le PDSF a été donc conçu comme instrument de mise en œuvre des composantes financières
de la Stratégie Nationale de Réduction de la Pauvreté du Niger. Son objectif global est de
contribuer à l'amélioration de l'approfondissement du secteur financier afin de favoriser le
développement du secteur privé considéré comme moteur de la croissance et de la lutte contre
la pauvreté.
L’objectif de l’évaluation du PDSF est de donner au pouvoir public, aux gestionnaires du
projet, aux partenaires et aux bénéficiaires, l’occasion de tirer les leçons de l’expérience,
d’améliorer les prestations de service, de planifier et d’affecter les ressources et de rendre
compte aux principales parties prenantes des résultats obtenus.

Méthodologie de l’évaluation interne de fin d’exécution du PDSF
Pour exécuter cette mission d’appui au PDSF, le consultant a adopté une démarche en quatre
étapes :

   -   une réunion de cadrage avec l’équipe du projet
   -   une étude documentaire à partir des principaux documents figurant dans les archives
       du PDSF.
   -   des entretiens individuels et de groupes à partir d’un guide d’entretien.
   -    une analyse à partir des constats et appréciations recueillis au niveau de l’étude
       documentaire et des entretiens.

                                               27
L’évaluation interne a permis d’analyser les résultats obtenus par le PDSF au regard des
critères de pertinence, d’efficacité, d’efficience, de qualité de partenariat et de durabilité.

Pertinence du PDSF, de ses objectifs de développement et de ses composantes
L’objectif global du projet est l’amélioration de l’approfondissement financier, afin de
favoriser le développement du secteur privé considéré comme moteur de la croissance et de la
réduction de la pauvreté.
La réalisation des objectifs assignés au PDSF, est articulée autour de six (6) composantes
opérationnelles :
     Le renforcement de l’environnement juridique et réglementaire par l’amélioration du
        cadre législatif, réglementaire, juridique et judiciaire dans lequel opère le secteur
        financier ;
     La restructuration bancaire à travers la privatisation du Crédit du Niger (CDN) et la
        restructuration de la Caisse de prêts aux Collectivités Territoriales (CPCT) ;
     Le développement de l’Intermédiation financière de Proximité, à travers la
        restructuration de l’office National de la Poste et de l’Epargne (ONPE) et
        l’assainissement des institutions de microfinance ;
     La réforme de la sécurité sociale par la réalisation de l’étude sur l’assainissement des
        fichiers de la Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale (CNSS) et la conduite d’une étude
        actuarielle et des réformes paramétriques ;
     Le renforcement des capacités à travers des appuis en formation et en équipements
        aux structures concernées ;
     La gestion du projet pour assurer la coordination et la conduite des activités du projet
        ainsi que sa gestion administrative et financière.
Pour l'essentiel, les objectifs du PDSF sont pertinents et logiques au vu du diagnostic présenté
par le document de formulation du projet.
Le PDSF a été élaboré dans les règles de l’art et selon les pratiques en vigueur à la Banque
Mondiale. Un document d’évaluation du projet a été élaboré à cet effet.
Compte tenu de la complexité de ce projet et de sa dimension macro-économique, les
concepteurs ont convenu d’une approche flexible qui a facilité des adaptations aux réalités du
pays.

Gestion administrative et financière du PDSF
La gestion du PDSF a été confiée à une unité de gestion, chargée de la mise en œuvre des
activités de 5 composantes sous la supervision d’un comité de pilotage et de la tutelle du
ministère de l’économie et des finances.
Selon l’accord de crédit entre la République du Niger et l’IDA, le PDSF a bénéficié d’un
fonds de 16,8 millions de dollars soit 8 440 000 000 de francs CFA dont 1 040 000 000
FCFA à la charge de l’Etat du Niger, et 7 400 000 000 FCFA à la charge de l’IDA.
Cette contre - partie nigérienne à laquelle s’ajoutent les exonérations d’impôts et taxes était
censée financer les achats en monnaie locale dans une proportion allant de 10 % à 30 %.
Sur le plan de la gestion comptable, les comptes du projet ont été régulièrement certifiés par
des Experts Comptables inscrits à l’Ordre National des Experts Comptables et des
Comptables Agrées (ONECA).
L’UGP a élaboré un plan général de passation de marchés, plan à partir duquel des plans
annuels de passation de marché ont été adoptés et exécutés après avis de non-objection de
l’IDA.
Le tableau ci-après rend compte de l’évolution dans l’exécution financière par composante du
PDSF du 31 décembre 2005 au 31 décembre 2010.

                                              28
Partenariats du Projet
La présente évaluation interne a cherché à apprécier la qualité du partenariat mis en œuvre
entre les différentes parties à savoir :
   -   le projet (tutelle, comité de pilotage, UGP) ;
   -   les bénéficiaires de l’intervention ;
   -   le ministère de tutelle du projet (ME/F) ;
   -   les autres ministères impliqués dans la mise en œuvre du projet (MCC, MJ, MUH,
       MFP/T, etc.) ;
   -   le gouvernement et les partenaires techniques et financiers intervenant dans le secteur
       financier.
Le partenariat entre le projet et les bénéficiaires a très bien fonctionné aux dires des
bénéficiaires notamment les banques et leur association(APBEF), les institutions de micro-
finance, leur association (ANIP-MF) et l'ARSM.

Performance du PDSF

Le PDSF a démarré en réalité ses activités en 2005 et au cours des missions de supervision de
2006 et 2008 certaines évolutions sont intervenues notamment la suppression de certaines
activités et la réallocation des crédits correspondants, entre les composantes et entre les
catégories de dépenses.
Composante 1 : Renforcement de l’environnement juridique et réglementaire
Cette composante a consommé au 31 décembre 2010 un montant de 264 206 556 FCFA pour
une prévision après réallocation de 2008 de 550 000 000 FCFA, soit un taux de réalisation
financière de 48%.
En termes d’efficacité, cette composante n’a pas été satisfaisante au regard du faible taux de
consommation des crédits et de la non mise en œuvre du Plan d’action commun pour la
réforme du cadre légal et juridique indispensable pour l’amélioration de l’environnement du
secteur financier.
Composante 2 : Restructuration Bancaire
Au 31 décembre 2010, les réalisations financières de la composante s’élèvent à 397 749 294
FCFA pour des prévisions de 605 000 000 FCFA, soit un taux de consommation de crédits de
65,08%.
En termes d’efficacité et d’efficience, cette composante n’a pas été satisfaisante en raison du
non aboutissement des principales restructurations envisagées particulièrement la
privatisation du Crédit du Niger et l’opérationnalisation de l’Agence Nationale de
Financement des Collectivités Territoriales.
Composante 3 : Développement de l’Intermédiation Financière de Proximité
Au plan financier, les réalisations de la composante s’élèvent à 3 460 943 809 FCFA pour des
prévisions révisées en 2008 de 3 362 600 000 FCFA, soit un taux d’exécution financière de
102,93%, très appréciable.
Au regard des ressources engagées, l’efficience de la composante est faible car la réforme du
secteur postal est inachevée en l’absence de la création effective de Finaposte et ce, malgré
les actions menées.

Composante 4 : Réforme de la Sécurité Sociale
Cette composante a consommé 226 219 898 FCFA pour des révisions faibles de 95 000 000
FCFA, soit un taux de réalisation financière de 238,13%.


                                              29
Les activités prévues ont été menées de façon satisfaisante et avec efficacité malgré l’absence
de la mise en œuvre de l’ensemble des recommandations de l’audit actuariel en vue de
parvenir à de véritables réformes paramétriques.
Composante 5 : Renforcement des Capacités
Au plan financier, l’exécution de cette composante s’élève à 889 147 616 FCFA pour des
prévisions de 910 000 000 FCFA, après réallocation de 2008, soit un taux de réalisation de
97,71%
Les activités de cette composante ont été menées avec efficacité et efficience et les résultats
satisfaisants obtenus ont été largement confirmés par les bénéficiaires.
Composante 6 : Gestion du Projet
Pour des prévisions de 1 346 000 000 FCFA, un montant de 1 467 364 570 FCFA a été
consommé, soit un taux de réalisation de 109,02%. Malgré, le sous effectif de l’Unité de
Gestion, celle-ci a menée de façon satisfaisante et efficace les activités programmées.
Toutefois, des contraintes extérieures à l’Unité de Gestion ont compromis certains résultats
attendus.

Performance de l’Emprunteur et de la Banque Mondiale
La performance de l’emprunteur est jugée modérément satisfaisante.

Performance de la Banque Mondiale
La performance de la Banque Mondiale est jugée satisfaisante par les partenaires et les
bénéficiaires du projet.

Contraintes et difficultés de mise en œuvre
Le PDSF est un projet d’appui institutionnel et de ce fait, il lui est difficile d’agir directement
pour faire valoir les exigences de la mise en œuvre des activités, sans l’appui et l’engagement
des autres parties prenantes.
Leçons tirées et recommandations en vue de la pérennisation des acquis du PDSF
L’examen de l’exécution des différentes composantes du PDSF nous a permis d’identifier ses
succès ou ses forces ainsi que ses échecs ou faiblesses.
Au titre des acquis :
    - le renforcement du contrôle et de la gouvernance dans le secteur de la micro - finance
        avec l’ARSM,
    - l’équipement et l’amélioration du professionnalisme des structures de contrôle et de
        surveillance des institutions financières,
    - l’amélioration de l’environnement juridique et règlementaire,
    - l’amélioration de la gestion des banques, des compagnies d’assurance et des
        institutions de micro – finance,
    - la régularisation de la situation financière et sociale au niveau du secteur postal.

Au titre des faiblesses ou défaillances :
   - le non aboutissement de plusieurs réformes clés comme le CDN, la CPCT,
   - la non finalisation du processus concernant FINAPOSTE et la Banque de l’Habitat.
   Au vu de ce bilan, les recommandations du rapport visent à corriger ces défaillances et à
   assurer la pérennisation des acquis notamment :
   - la liquidation du CDN,
   - la nomination des responsables de l’ANFICT qui remplace le CPCT,
   - la poursuite de l’appui à l’ARSM, de la mise en œuvre des plans d’action et
        recommandations pour le cadre légal et juridique et la CNSS.


                                                30
Conclusion

L’évaluation interne de fin d’exécution du PDSF a permis de faire participer tous les acteurs,
gestionnaires, bénéficiaires et partenaires à une appréciation des succès, échecs et contraintes
connus par le PDSF dans le cadre de sa mise en œuvre.
Elle a ensuite permis d’apprécier la pertinence et la performance du PDSF, de l’emprunteur et
de la Banque Mondiale et enfin de formuler des propositions et des recommandations en vue
de la consolidation et de la pérennisation des acquis du projet.
Il ressort de cette évaluation interne que malgré le non aboutissement de plusieurs reformes,
le PDSF a enregistré des résultats positifs dans plusieurs domaines.
Les participants à cette auto-évaluation souhaitent que les acquis soient consolidés pour une
pérennisation des résultats du PDSF.




                                              31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               33
                             Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Asli Demirguc-Kunt and Harry Huizinga: Determinants of Commercial bank interest margins
and profitability; World Bank Working Paper series (1998).

Development Credit Agreement.

ISR Sequence Nos. 1 to 15.

Mission Aide memoires and Management Letters.

Project documents (IRIS).

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for Niger (2003).

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for Niger (2008).

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document: Niger Financial Sector technical Assistance Project
(2004).




                                              34
                                                                                                                                                                                 10°E                                                                        15°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L I B YA
                                         NIG ER                                                                                                                                     To Djanet                                                              To Tajarhi


                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                        ALGERIA
                                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      NIGER

                                    RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                        Madama

                                    MAIN ROADS

                                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                          T é
                                                                                                        To Tamanrasset




                                                                                                                                                                                            é n
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                          20°N
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                                              n é
                                                                                                                                                               Mont Greboun
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                              (1,944 m )                                      A G A D E Z
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                  r é
                                                                                                                                                                                                    é
                        0      50        100    150         200 Kilometers                                                                                  Air Mts.




                                                                                                                                                                                                  D e
                                                                                                                                                                                                  D e
                                                                                                                                            Arlit                                                                                         Bilma
                        0            50          100             150 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                                      s e r
                                                                                                                                                                                                        e r t
                                                                MALI

                                                                                                                                                        Agadez
                                                                                                                                    Ingal
                                                                                                   TAHOUA                                                                                                                                 D I F F A
                                                To                                                                  Tchin-
                                               Gao                                                                  Tabaradene




                 15°N
                 15
                 15∞N                                                                                                                                                            ZINDER                                                                          CHAD
                                                                                                   Tahoua                                                           Tanout                                                                                                 15°N
                                                                                                                    Keïta
                                                                 TILLABÉRI
                                To                                Tillabéri                          Illéla                             Dakoro
                                                                                                                            Bouza
                            Ouahigouya
                                                     Téra                               Filingué
                                                                                                                                    MARADI                  S           a           h Gouré e                    l               Nguigmi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s.
                                                                   Nig




                                                                                                    Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                    Konni                                                                                                                ng
                                                                       er




                                                                            NIAMEY                                                                                      Zinder                                       a
                                  NIAMEY                                                                                                            Aguié




                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                Kollo                                                                                                                                Maïné- Diffa
                                                                                                                                        Maradi                                                                       Soroa
                                                                                        Dosso                                                                                                                                  1963 Level
                                                                                                           To                                                         Magaria                                                   1973 Level                          Lake
                   BURKINA                                                           DOSSO              Kontagora                                                                                                                 2001 Level                        Chad
SEPTEMBER 2004




                    FASO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33457
                                                           To
                                                       Ouagadougou
                                                                                                                                                                         NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                      Kaduna
                                    0°                                          BENIN               5°E                                                                           10°E
                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                  10∞E                                                                              15°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15∞E
