Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3658-1-IND 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Urban Poverty Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 7, 2007  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 7, 2007 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Additional Financing 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The International Development Association General Conditions for Credits and 
Gr
ants”, dated July 1, 2005 (“IDA General Conditions”) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement (“Additional Financing Agreement”). 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the IDA General Conditions, 
in the Appendix to this Additional Financing Agreement or in Section 1.02 of the 
Original Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amendment 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
eighty nine million five hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 89,550,000) (
“Additional Credit”) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Additional Financing Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Credit in accordance 
with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Additional Financing Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Additional Credit shall be repaid in accordance with 
the repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Additional Financing 
Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the IDA General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Additional 
Financing Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Additional Financing 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
that the Revised Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been 
duly updated and revised to reflect the impact of the Additional Credit 
and adopted by the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
that Project Management Unit shall have entered into one or more 
memoranda of understanding on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association with one or more commercial banks acceptable to the 
Association for banking services arrangements to make available the 
proceeds of the Financing to be used for Kelurahan Grants and Sub-loans 
through the BKMs and for Oversight C
onsultants’ salaries. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the IDA General Conditions, the date on 
which the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those 
providing for payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 Jakarta 
10710 
 Indonesia 
Page  5
3
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799    
DJMLN-IA 
 
(21) 381 2859 
 Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/  Rahmat Waluyanto 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/  Joel Hellman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to: (i) establish or support 
representative, responsive and accountable community organizations that are able to 
provide services to the urban poor and increase the voice of the poor in local decision 
making; (ii) make local government more responsive to the needs of the poor through 
increased cooperation with community organizations; and (iii) improve services for the 
urban poor (financial services, social services and infrastructure). 
 
The Project consists of Part A, Part B and Part D of the Original Project.
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. 
 
1. 
Schedule 4 to the Original Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the 
Amendment Agreement is incorporated by reference in this Additional Financing 
Agreement, and the provisions thereof shall apply 
mutatis mutandis
 to this 
Additional Financing Agreement, subject, however, to the following 
modifications, unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
references to the “Borrower” shall be construed as references to the 
Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
references to the “Project” shall be construed as references to the Project 
as further defined in this Additional Financing Agreement. 
 
2.  
(a) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the Recipient undertakes 
to comply with the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section 
as if those provisions had been set out and reproduced in full in this 
Additional Financing Agreement. 
 
(b) 
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Original 
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the 
Recipient has been notified otherwise by the Association: 
 
(i) 
all actions taken, including approvals given by the Association, 
pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Section, shall be deemed to have been taken or given 
pursuant to this Additional Financing Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to 
the Association pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Section shall be deemed to have been 
furnished pursuant to this Additional Financing Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the IDA 
Page  8
6
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the Original Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amendment 
Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the IDA General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the IDA General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General. 
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Page  9
7
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping 
(b) Community Participation using procedures acceptable to the Association as 
set out in the Revised Project Manual 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Page  10
8
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the IDA General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Additional 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)(a)  Kelurahan Grants and 
Sub-loans  
 
56,610,000 
100% of Grant or 
Sub-loan amount 
disbursed 
 
(1)(b) Special Kelurahan 
reconstruction Grants 
 
0 
100% of Grant or 
Sub-loan amount 
disbursed 
 
(2)  Poverty Alleviation 
Partnership Grants 
 
0 
100% of Grant 
amount disbursed 
 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
under Parts A and D of the 
Project 
 
32,940,000 100% 
(4)  Fee 
 
0 
 
(5)  Unallocated 
 
0 
 
TOTAL  
89,550,000
Page  11
9
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008.
 
Page  12
10
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)
*
On each April 1 and October 1: 
 
commencing October 1, 2017 to and including 
April 1, 2027 
1.25% 
commencing October 1, 2027 to and including 
April 1, 2042 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the IDA General Conditions. 
Page  13
11
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Additional Credit” means the Credit provided for in this Additional Financing 
Agreement for the Project. 
 
2. 
“Amendment Agreement” means the agreement amending the Original 
Development Credit Agreement and the Original Loan Agreement dated the date 
hereof. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“IDA General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
6. 
“Original Development Credit Agreement” means the development credit 
agreement for the Second Urban Poverty Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated August 20, 2002 as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No.3658-IND). 
 
7. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Second Urban 
Poverty Project between the Recipient and the Bank, dated August 20, 2002 as 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No.4664-IND). 
 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Development Credit Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 13, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
