                                                 .  Document of
                                                 The World Bank

                                           FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY

                                                                                           Report No. 39505-ID




                                                 PROJECT PAPER




                              PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                                              IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                               SDR 89.55 MILLION
                                      (US$135,5MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     TO THE

                                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                       FOR A

                                    SECOND URBAN POVERTY PROJECT




                                                    April 9,2007




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



I
1This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipientsonly in the performanceof
 their official duties. It contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization

                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

           (EXCHANGE RATE EFFECTIVEDECEMBER 19,2006)

           CurrencyUnit = Indonesian Rupiah
             IDR 1,000 = US$0.109549
                US$1      = IDR 9,128

                             FISCAL YEAR

                 January : - December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BAPPENAS     National Development Planning Board
BI           Bank Indonesia
BKM          Badan Keswadayan Masyarakat (CommunityBoards of Trustees)
BPK          Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan (SupremeAudit Agency)
BPKP         Badan Pengawas Keuangan Pembangunan (DevelopmentFinance
             Controller)
Bupati       District Head
CAS          CountryAssistance Strategy
CCT          Conditional Cash Transfer Program
CDD          Community-driven development
CDP          CommunityDevelopmentPlan
CSO          Civil SocietyOrganization
Desa         Rural village
DIPA         Dafter Isian Proyek Pusat (Approved Central GovernmentDetailed
             Project Budget)
FMR          Financial MonitoringReport
GO1          Governmentof Indonesia
HCU          Handling ComplaintsUnit
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICR          Implementation CompletionReport
IDA          InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFR          Interim Financial Reports
KDP          KecarnatanDevelopmentProject
Kelurahan    Urban ward
MDF          Multi-DonorTrust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
MIS          Management Information System
MOF          Ministryof Finance
MPW          Ministryof Public Works
OC           Oversight Consultant
PAD          Project AppraisalDo'cument
PDO          Project DevelopmentObjectives
Pru          Project ImplementationUnit

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


          PJOK                  Penanggung-Jawab Operasional Kegiatan (Project Manager at
                                Kecamatan Level)
          P M U                 Project Management,Unit
          PNPM                  Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National
                                Community Empowerment Program)
          POM                   Project Operational Manual
          SIL                   Specific InvestmentLoan
          TA                    Technical Assistance
          UPP                   Urban PovertyProject




                                        Vice President: James W. Adams
                              Acting Country Director: Joel Hellman
                                       Sector Director: Keshav Varma
                                    Task Team Leader: George Soraya




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                     111
                                                     ...


                                                     INDONESIA

                                         Second Urban Poverty Project

                                                      CONTENTS



A.    Introduction...................................................................................................................... -3

B.    Background and Rationale for Additional Financing.......................................................                             3

C.    Proposed Changes     .............................................................................................................   7

D.    Consistency with the CAS         ................................................................................................    9

E.    Appraisal Results..............................................................................................................      9

F.    Expected Outcomes      ........................................................................................................    -11

G.    Benefits and Risks   ...........................................................................................................    12

H.    FinancialTerms and Conditions for Additional Financing ...........................................                                 -12

ANNEXES:
Annex 1:     Revised Project Costs and FinancingPlan...................................................                                   13

Annex 2:     Indonesia's National Community Empowerment Strategy................................                                          14

Annex 3:     Project Results Framework and Monitoring                        .................................................            16

Annex 4:     FinancialManagement Assessment.                      ..........................................................              21

Annex 5:     Procurement Assessment .......................................................................                              35

Annex 6:     Anti-corruption Action Plan...................................................................                              39

Annex 7:     Technical and Operational Issues and Actions                        ..............................................          46

Annex 8:     Statements o f Loans and Credits               ...............................................................               48

Annex 9:     Country at a Glance., ...........................................................................                           51

MAP JBRD 31828
    -


                                                             iv


                                               INDONESIA
                              SECOND URBAN POVERTYPROJECT
                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                                EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                                *   EASUR




ProjectID:P072852P096813                    Themes: Infrastructure Services
LendingInstrument:Credit (IDA)




TotalBankfinancing:US$: 135.50 million
Proposedterms:Standard

                  Source                           Local       I Foreign]          Total
                 Borrower
                 IBRD/IDA
                  Others


Responsible agency: Ministry o f Public Works (MPW)
Address: J1. Patimura 20, Jakarta Selatan, Indonesia




has beendisbursedto date.
Current closing date:June 30,2008


Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant [ ]Yes [ X 3 N o
respects?
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?                   []Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                         [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 [[]Yes
                                                                                ]Yes[X]No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or           [XIYes [ ] N o
"hieh"?



                                                    1

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for                  [X]Yes[ ]No
implementation?
Projectdevelopment objective:The development objective o f
the Second UrbanPoverty Project i s to benefit the urban poor by
improving services and infrastructure identified and delivered in a
more effective and participatory manner.
                                                .)


Projectdescription:The project consists offour components:
        (a) CommunityPlanningand Local Government CapacityBuilding:Support for social
        intermediation activities, training, workshops, meetings and focus group discussions, and
        productionof socialization materials and publications.
        (b) KelurahanGrants:Block grants for kelurahans to support sub-projects includedinthe
        community development plans.
        (c) PovertyAlleviation PartnershipGrant: Encouragepartnerships between local
        governments and communities by providing matching grants for city level poverty reduction
        activities.
        (d) ImplementationTechnicalAssistance: Support for projectmanagement and oversight
        through provisiono f consultants and technical assistance.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? The project triggers four safeguard policies:
Environment assessment, cultural property, involuntary resettlement, and indigenous peoples.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any: None
Board presentation: May 2007




                                                   2

A.       INTRODUCTION

 1.      This project paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide additional
financing o f US$135.5 million to the Indonesia Second Urban Poverty Project (UPP 2) through the
use o f the additional financing instrument under OP 13.20. The Government o f Indonesia (GOI)
has requested this additional financing to scale-up UPP 2 to support the government's newly
created national poverty reduction program. Changes to the existing project include: (a) geographic
expansion to new areas; (b) adoption o f a more rigorous anti-corruption action plan; (c)
strengthened financial management, procurement, and disbursement arrangements; and, (d)
improvedtraining program for consultants and facilitators, including modules on community-based
disaster management. These revisions are consistent with the project's objectives, which will not
change, and will improve the effectiveness o f project implementation.

B.       BACKGROUND      AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

2.       Project background.UPP 2 was approved by the Board for an amount o f USSlOO million
on June 11,2002 and became effective on November 18,2002. The development objective o f UPP
2 i s to benefit the urbanpoor by improving services and infrastructure identified and delivered in a
more effective and participatory manner. The design o f UPP incorporates several innovative
measures, including: (a) matching the needs and demands o f communities with services provided
by local governments; (b) buildinglocal government capacity to work with and support community
organizations; and (c) ensuring continued community ownership o f the facilities or programs.

3.       UPP 2 i s part o f a series o f urban poverty interventions supported by the Bank, beginning
with UPP 1, which was approved in 1999, followed by UPP 2 in 2002, and UPP 3 in2005. Total
IBRDADA financing that has been provided to the three UPP operations i s about US$338.7 million
(Table 1). The program i s one o f the largest urban poverty reductionprojects in the world, with an
established record o f community engagement, participation, and service delivery. The Bank is also
supporting rural poverty reduction through a series o f Kecamatan Development Projects (KDP).

                                         Table 1 UPP program
                                                 -

                                                          Number of
           ProjectPhase                 Period            kelurahans      IBRDDDA
                                                            covered      (US$ million)
                 UPP 1                1999-2004              2,621               100.0
                 UPP 2               2002-2008               2,059               100.0
                 UPP 3               2005-2011                1,726              138.7
              TOTAL                                          6,406               338.7


4.       More than 6,400 o f the poorest urbanIndonesian wards, or kelurahans, have participated in
and benefited from the UPP program.             The majority o f funds have supported small-scale
infrastructure construction and maintenance and revolving fund schemes. Technical quality o f
infrastructure o f the roads, bridges and water and sanitation schemes constructed under UPP 1 has
been assessedby the task team during supervision missions and by the government and found to be
satisfactory in over 85 percent o f sub-projects. GO1 also estimates that infrastructure financed


                                                   3

through UPP 1 using a participatory approach produced savings o f more than 35 percent of the
total cost o f using contractors. Surveyed communities also indicated their overall quality o f life had
improvedby over 80 percent due to the implementation o f sub-projects.

5.       Lessons learned from UPP 1 have been incorporated into the project design. Bypassing
local governments does little to foster a productive or sustainable relationship with communities.
The addition o f the Poverty Alleviation Participation Grants (PAPG) component to UPP 2
encourages local government ownership o f the project. Another important lesson i s the building
o f trust and accountability between the community members and Community Board o f Trustees
or BKMs. A longer awareness raising process and structured involvement o f communities
ensures both the communities and the BKMs are aware o f their rights and responsibilities. Project
monitoring has been separated from the project evaluation function to maintain independence and
objectivity o fthe consultants.

6.       UPP 2 project components include:

         (a) Community Planning and Local Government Capacity Building - This component
         funds the cost o f facilitators to carry out social intermediation activities, training,
         workshops, meetings and focus group discussions, and production o f socialization materials
         and publications. Outputs under this component include community development plans
         (CDP), formation o f community boards o ftrustees (BKMs), and local government capacity
         building.

         (b) Kelurahan Grants - Sub-projects included inthe CDPs are supported by block grants
         for kelurahans. These sub-projects cover an open menuo fpoverty alleviation activities with
         a short negative list. Typical activities are: specific investments pre-identified by
         communities (bridges, roads, school repair, health facility repair, etc); microcredit loans for
         community groups, which form the basis of a revolving fund; and grant assistance to the
         poorest or most vulnerable individuals (e.g., scholarships, home improvements, healthcare,
         etc).

         (c) Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant - This component encourages partnerships
        between local government and corhmunities. Local governments may access matching
         grants for city level poverty reductionactivities and finance poverty alleviation sub-projects
         that are too big to be financed by the block grants, or that require local government
         involvement (e.g., networked infrastructure or operations and maintenance) and that cover
         more than one ward.

         (d) Implementation Technical Assistance -         The Project Management Unit (PMU) has
        hiredconsultants and facilitators to assist inproject implementation. Technical assistanceis
        being provided through national management consultants (NMC) at the central level, and
        oversight consultant (OC) teams at the provincial level, with offices in the participating
        districts.

7.      Project performance to date - UPP 2 is achieving its development objectives in an
acceptable manner and implementation progress i s currently satisfactory in spite o f initial start up



                                                 4

delays. At the end o f 2006, US$84 million out o f US$lOO million had been disbursed; remaining
UPP 2 funds are hlly committed. As previously noted, the project has had such a positive
development impact on the poor in urban communities that the government i s scaling it up as a
main pillar o f its new national poverty reduction program. Transparency in decision-making at the
community and local government levels has increased substantially. Audit reports have been
received in a timely manner and are satisfactory; minor procedural issues identified have been
satisfactorily addressed. Compliance with social and environmental safeguards policies has been
acceptable. The anti-corruption action plan (ACAP) i s being implemented in a satisfactory manner.
The project website and management information system (MIS) have been effective mechanisms
for maintaining the transparency o f the project and tracking complaints. Weaknesses in the project
ACAP were addressed inUPP 3; this strengthened ACAP will be applied under the project.

8.       The project's monitoring and evaluation system i s functional and i s tracking progress on the
key project performance indicators and milestones, many o f which have beenmet (see Table 2). As
o f December 2006, close to 100 percent o f target areas had completed all cycles o f UPP
community preparation. A total o f 2,059 BKMs, or Community Boards o f Trustees, have been
established (about 3.1 million people participated in the election o f the BKMs, and 49 percent o f
the voters were women). These BKMs consist o f 25,537 members who work for the poor on a pro
bono basis. About 2,000 community poverty plans have been completed. A total o f 86,524 sub-
project proposals have been funded.

9.       A comprehensive, panel-based quantitative and qualitative impact evaluation o f the project
i s currently underway, covering over 15,000 respondents from 156 treatment and 108 control
wards. The original results monitoring framework has been revised to reflect changes to the
project, as elaborated in paragraph 32 below. Additional information on project results monitoring
i s available inAnnex 3.

10.      Rationale for Additional Financing. In August 2006 GO1launched the first nationwide
poverty reduction program comprising two components: (a) National Program for Community
Empowerment (PNPM); and (b) Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program targeting poor
communities and households. The PNPM will be implemented inthree phases from 2007-2009 and
will require about US$1.5 billion per year. During the first phase in 2007, while designing and
enhancing the PNPM framework, the Government will scale up two existing poverty reduction
models - community empowerment in rural and in urban areas, through the Kecamatan
Development Project (KDP) and UPP programs. Details o f the PNPMare outlined inAnnex 2.

                          Table 2 -Key Outputs of the Urban PovertyProject(UPP)




lo    Electricity                     # of units                    5,235           4,567                           1,731      11,533
      Beneficiaries                   # of households          2,699,395        4,397,523                         283,082   7,380,000
`     Revolving Funds
      Loan Activities                 # of loans                 156,628           50,912                             n.a.   207,540
      inan iiecipient                 # ofpersons                939,768          349,265                             n.a.  1,289,033
       Repayment rate   5 '           %                              73.5            92.6                             n.a.      83.05
"      Education and Health
 1    Ilealtli (healthposts builtitcha
      or supported)                   # of units                      154           1,509                              10       1,673
2     F.ducation (school rehahor
      supported)                      # of units                       56              17                              19          92


E     Social activities
1     Aids for widow, elderly
      people, and students
      (Scholarship)                   # of beneficiaries            4135          581,925                          8,767     594,827
2     Skills trainings for community
      employment                      # ofbeneficiaries               11.a        143,766                          6,799      150,565




(2) Status as of October 10,2006; data source :UPP 2 MIS     '

(') Status as o fOctober 31,2006; data source : UPP 3 MIS

(4) Status as of September 15,2006; data source :UPP - Multi Donor FundMIS

5,  Kcpaymentrate of UPP 2 repicsalts the latest status ofthc first 8 months of thc opcration, as of October 2006

11.     The national budget for 2007 does not include sufficient funding to cover the launch o f the
PNPM program, leaving a gap o f US$930 million. GO1 has requested the Bank to provide
US$258.5 million in bridge funding to support the implementation o f the PNPM: (a) US$135.5
million as additional financing for UPP 2; and, (b) US$123 million as additional financing for the
ThirdKecamatan Development Project, secondphase. The proposed additional financing for UPP
2 will support ongoing poverty reduction activities inmost o f the UPP and UPP 2 wards and will
scale up the program to include about 2,900 new urban wards not covered previously by any of the
UPP operations. It will not support the CCT Program.

12.     UPP 2 was chosen for additional financing, because: (a) the funding gap i s in kelurahans
covered by UPP 1 and UPP 2; and, (b) the project management staff i s well experienced and has
significantly lighter workload than that o f UPP 3. A new investment operation, such as a Specific
Investment Loan (SIL), is not being utilized in this case as it would have increased borrower
transaction costs without bringing substantive benefits to the project design. The streamlined
appraisal and approval process o f the additional financing mechanism provides the most flexibility
for assisting the GO1in meeting the immediate funding gap inthis transition period from UPP to
the institutionalizationo fthe PNPMprogram, o fwhich the UPP model is a Cornerstone.

C.      PROPOSED     CHANGES

13.     The UPP 2 additional financing will follow the current project design, while incorporating
improvements made in the design o f UPP 3, such as the revised ACAP and simplified
disbursement arrangements. The additional financing will only be applied to the following project
components:     Community Development and Local Government Capacity Building; Kelurahan
Grants; and, Implementation Support. The Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant (PAPG)
component i s not included as part o fthe PNPMbecauseit focuses on larger infrastructure.

14.     The additional financing to UPP 2 will:

              Provideblock grants to 2,636 kelurahans supported by UPP 1andUPP 2;

              Add 2,911 newkelurahans not covered previouslybyUPP 1,UPP 2, or UPP 3;

              Decentralize     budget documents        for block      grants,    the hiring of      the
              facilitators/individual consultants, and payment o f salaries to the provincial level;

              Improve protocols for disbursemento fblock grants to the BKMs' bank accounts;

              Buildthe capacity ofthe Project Management Unit (PMU);

              Improve the training program for consultants and facilitators, including modules on
              community-based disaster management;

              Implementthe revisedanti-comption actionplan (Le., the UPP 3 ACAP);

              Strengthen the UPP website (www.u2k~.orq)for complaint handling, disclosure of
              contract information, and for progress reports on payment information;

              Improve the Project Management Information System(MIS);



                                                   7

        0     Strengthen the independent ex post review o f community grants to at least 2 percent
              by value o f procurement under community grants and village facilitator contracts,
              according to the audit terms o f Teference (TOR); and,

        0     Undertake an in-depth analysis on the status o f UPP revolving funds.

15.     The additional financing increase UPP program coverage to about 7,273 kelurahans in all
33 provinces in Indonesia (see Table 3 below). A total o f 2,636 existing and 2,991 new kelurahans
will benefit from the additional financing. The 2,911 new kelurahans to be added through the
additional financing, will carry out the full, basic cycle o f UPP through June 2008; however, they
will only be eligible to receive 20 percent, o f the total grant amount to undertake socialization
activities because they may not have adequate capacity to manage the full block grant. Existing
UPP 1 and UPP 2 areas are already well-versed inUPP procedures and will receive the full block
grant amount. Remaining ex-UPP kelurahans not covered by this additional financingwill either be
addressed by KDP as part o f the PNPM or have been designated as non-performing kelurahans
ineligible for funding.

                           Table3 Coverage of the 2007 UPP PNPM
                                    -



           ExistingUPP 1&                      facilitation ;pL
           UPP 2 kelurahans        2007         block grants         2,636*        97           97
                                                Community
                                               facilitation &
           UPP 3 kelurahans       2007          block grants          1,726      67**           0
                                                Community
                                               preparation&
           New kelurahans    Jan. 07 - Dec.08 20% block grants     2,911***       38.5       38.5

           TOTAL 2007        Jan.07- Dec.08                           7,273      202.5      135.5




16.     Revisedproject costs and financingplan. Annex 1shows the project costs and financing
plan for the project.

17.     Projectimplementationarrangements. The existingproject implementationarrangements
will be applied to the additional financing. The special unit inthe PMU staffed to operate UPP 2
will be supplemented by new staff and additional consultants to manage the additional financing.
The capacity building strategy for the PMUis presented inparagraph 23.

18.     Project Operational Manual (POM). The UPP 3 POM will be used for the additional
financing, with all changes to the project indicated inparagraph 14 included as an addendum to the
manual.


                                                     8

 19.    Revised closing date. The loadcredit closing date will be extended by six months, from
June 30,2008 to December 31,2008.

D.      CONSISTENCYWITH THE COUNTRYASSISTANCESTRATEGY

20.     The Bank's latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated October 2003 identifies two
primary constraints to reducing poverty in Indonesia: (a) inadequate productive employment
opportunities resulting from a weak investment climate; and, (b) lack o f quality service delivery to
poor people. Progress inthese two areas has been compromised by the underlyingproblem o f weak
governance. The CAS aims to address these constraints through four delivery platforms, including
a community-driven development (CDD) platform. Approximately 25 percent o f Bank lending
during the CAS period is expected to be directed through the CDD platform, primarily through the
UPP and KDP programs.

21.     The 2006 CAS Progress Report states that the Bank's program in Indonesia will be
expanded through: (a) stronger support for governance reform via civil service reform and
transparent, nationwide poverty programs; (b) focus on disaster risk management; (c) increase in
program financing for the remainder o f this CAS period; and (d) stronger partnerships. The
proposed additional financing will primarily support areas (a) and (b).

E.      APPRAISALRESULTS

22.     InDecember 2006, a Bank team appraisedGOI's request for US$140*million as additional
financing for UPP 2, usingthe same procedures as for the original project. The appraisal concluded
that additional financing for the project would benefit the urban poor on a larger scale and would
have a positive impact on the development and implementation o f the PNPM. Key results o f
appraisal are outlined below.

23.     Management capacity of the PMU. The issue o f capacity to address the increased scale o f
the project has been addressed by: (a) hiring additional contract managers (PPK) under the PMU;
(b) establishment o f a budgeting unit (satker) in each province; (c) placement o f additional
government staff within the PMU; and (d) increasing the number o f project management
consultants. The PMU will also decentralize disbursement authority at the provincial level, except
for the key consultants. This decentralization has been tested under UPP 3 and has proven to
enhance significantly the capacity o f the PMU.

24.     Mobilization and training of facilitators. A second possible scale-up issue is whether
sufficient technical and social facilitators can be rapidly mobilized, trained and deployed. Currently
UPP 2 consultants are operating in all areas covered by this additional financing; however, at the
local level, about 3,700 new facilitators must be mobilized and trained. To address these issues,
GO1has developed consultant mobilization and training strategies, which include plans for phased
recruitment and improvements to the content and delivery o f training modules. Because o f
continuity requirements and previous program effectiveness, the existing W P consultants'
contracts (both the National Management`Consultant and the Oversight Consultants) will be

'Subsequentlyreducedto US$ 135 duringnegotiations.


                                                  9

extended to cover the 2007 PNPM work. Facilitators will be mobilized and trained in stages,
beginningwith the strengthening o fthe existing UPP areas that will receive kelurahan block grants
through the additional financing.

25.      Financialmanagement. The Bankreviewedthe financial management assessmentfor UPP
2 inthe context o f the additional financing. A risk assessment carried out by financial management
specialists confirms that the project risk rating is substantial after mitigation measures are put in
place. The financial management arrangements and modifications to the disbursement mechanism
outlined inAnnex 4 will satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirementsunder OP/BP10.02 and 13.20.

26.      Targeting of kelurahans.In2007 the UPP programwill target 7,273 kelurahans located in
834 kecamatans. These kelurahans, which contain approximately 3 million people, were selected
based on: (a) their location in urban kecamatans; and (b) their having a poverty rate equal to or
exceeding 10percent o f the population. GOI's UPP and KDP teams have worked closely to ensure
there i s no geographic overlap betweenthe two projects under the PNPM.

27.      Revolvingfunds. Revolving funds will be limitedto those kelurahans which have already
benefited under the component and which have demonstrated repayment rates o f at least 80
percent. This decision was taken to avoid expansion of the program, which has not yet undergone a
thorough evaluation o f its efficacy and impact. Complementary to the revolving fund assessment
mentioned in paragraph 14, the Bank will undertake a rapid assessment o f the UPP 2 revolving
fund program jointly with KDP in May 2007. The result of these assessments will inform the
development o f future revolving fund operations under the PNPM.

28.      Procurement. Procurement will consist of hiring a number o f management consultants
(large value contracts), monitoring consultants, and individual facilitators, in addition to allocation
o f some 70 percent o f the project funds for community grants following the existing community
participation procedures. Procurement under the community grants will follow community
participation, using forms and procedures as defined in the existing Project Operational Manual o f
UPP 2, with minor revisions to include the additional villages. Based on previous implementation o f
UPP, it i s apparent that these procedures greatly increase the transparency o f the procurement
process; adherence to these procedures has significantly improved. There were no significant
findings during recent missions or audits, except the lack o f availability o f documentation at the
community level. This will be part o f enforcement under this additional financing. The overall
project risk for procurement i s high, considering the large size o f contracts/loan amount as well as
the short implementation period. The revisedprocurement arrangements are attached as Annex 5.

29.     Community-based disaster management. The additional financing will support the
execution o f a training module for UPP facilitators to: (a) raise awareness o f existing risks; and (b)
engage communities in risk reduction and preparedness activities. The consultants and facilitators
may provide technical support to communities that request assistance to incorporate disaster
management into their community development plans. Under the multi-donor Java Reconstruction
Fund, a grant hasbeenprovidedto develop these modules.

30.     Anti-corruption action plan. GO1 will adopt the comprehensive UPP 3 anti-comption
action plan (ACAP), which i s an enhancement o f the existing UPP 2 ACAP. The project will build



                                                10

upon the many good governance features already being implemented, including the UPP website,
which is often cited as a best practice example o f informationdisclosure as well as a quick, low-cost
way o f gathering feedback from the field. Enhancements to the original UPP 2 ACAP include:
 improved transparency and disclosure provisions; civil society oversight; mitigation o f fraud,
collusion and nepotism; an efficient complaint handling mechanism; and, sanctions and remedies.
The revised ACAP i s attached as Annex 6.

 31.    Results monitoring. The UPP 2 results monitoring framework has been revised to track
the changes that have been incorporated into the project. Additional outcome indicators (such as
the level o f beneficiaries' satisfaction o f services, the cost-effectiveness o f services provided, and
level o f community participation in the project) and output indicators (such as the quality o f
infrastructure services, percentage o f CDPs implemented) have been introduced for the three
components receiving additional financing. The UPP 2 monitoring system will be utilized, with
improvements to data collection and verification methods, spot checks, and the complaints
handlingmechanism. The revised results monitoring framework is attached as Annex 3.

32.     Economic and financial analyses. The economic analysis is consistent with the analysis
presented in the UPP 2 PAD. The additional financing will bring UPP coverage to 7,273
kelurahans. The proposed expansion o f UPP 2 in 2007 to existing and new kelurahans will cost
about US$172.2 million, including the cost o f the block grants, training, and facilitation. The
additional financing will provide US$135.5 to meet this financing gap; in addition, the
government has already allocated US$28 million from the national budget. Communities are also
expected to contribute financial and humanresources estimated at US$8.6 million.

33.     Safeguard policies and arrangements. The project will retain the safeguards
classification o f Category B. The Social and Environmental Safeguards Guidelines and
Frameworks outlined inthe UPP 3 Project Operational Manual will be applicable to this project.

F.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

34.     Expected outcomes o f the additibnal financing include: (a) targeted poor urban
households receive improved services; (b) infrastructure i s o f highquality and i s less costly than
non-community based construction; (c) beneficiaries are satisfied with the improved services and
infrastructure; (d) the BKMs are representative, effective, and operate in a participatory manner;
and, (e) local governments provide support to the program. The Government i s also expected to
establish a long term financial framework for its poverty reductionprogram.

35.     Sustainability. Sustainability o f the UPP program has been broadly demonstrated:
strong community participation ensures bay-in and demand; local government participation
ensures additional support and institutionalization o f the process as well as increasing scale; and
investments have been proven to be o f high quality and more economical under the UPP
methodology vis-&vis traditional contracting. In addition, the program has been scaled-up
through successive operations that have built upon the successes and expanded the geographic
scope o f the previous operations. The model has been adopted by at least 51 municipalities that
operate independent, complementary programs using the UPP framework. The model has also
been successful in leveraging support from NGOs and social organizations, which use UPP as a
vehicle for channeling financial support to poor urban communities. The success of UPP has led


                                                    11

to the adoption o f the program throughout the country and i s the basis, as indicated, for the
PNPM, with an annual allocation o fUS$1.5 billion from 2008-15.

G.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

36.     The project will have a positive impact on the development and execution o f the PNPM.
Specifically, the project will benefit poor urban communities in Indonesia through geographic
expansion o fUPP to new areas and the provisionof supplemental kelurahan grants.

37.     Risks. There are three main risks related to the scale up of UPP 2. The first risk is the
management capacity o f MPW, which i s still operating both UPP 2 and UPP 3. This additional
financing may stretch the capacity o f the agency. This risk will be mitigated through the
implementation o f the Government's capacity building strategy for the UPP Project Management
Unit (PMU), as discussed above in section E. The second risk is the recruitment and training of
about 3,700 facilitators and other consultants. This risk will be mitigated through the adoption o f
the government's strategy for rapid recruitment and training o f new facilitators and consultants
through extension o f existing consultants' contracts, phased recruitment, and enhanced training
programs, an approach that has already been successfully implemented in Aceh and Yogyakarta.
The third risk i s the possible delay in the authorization o f the budget and slow processing o f
payments through the regional treasury office. To minimize this risk, a more efficient disbursement
mechanism has been agreed with the Government that follows the arrangement currently utilized in
UPP 3.

H.      FINANCIAL    TERMS    AND CONDITIONSFORADDITIONAL FINANCING

38.     The terms for the IDA credit will be standard for an IDNIBRDblend country. Conditions
for the additional financing, which are to be completed prior to negotiation o f the project, include:
(a) a draft revised project operation manual that includes additional fiduciary management features
noted inAnnex 4; (b) an audit terms of reference (TOR) that i s acceptable to the Bank and includes
at least 20% o f project kecamatans with a sample o f kelurahans selected based on BPKP criteria;
(c) draft Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) between the PMU and a commercial bank on
banking services arrangements to channel the block grants to the BKMs, including remedies
acceptable to the Bank for internal control lapses; and (d) a draft MOU between the PMU and a
commercial bank on banking services arrangements to channel the funds for the facilitator and
individual consultant salaries. Prior to project effectiveness, the following conditions apply: (a) the
revised project manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been duly updated and revised to reflect the
impact o f the additional credit and adopted by the recipient; and (b) the PMU shall have entered
into one or more MOUs with one or more commercial banks on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank for bankingservices arrangements to channel the block grants to the BKMs and the funds
for the facilitator and individual consultant salaries.




                                                  12

                              Annex 1: ProjectCosts and FinancingPlan

                                                     Project Costs

                                                                       UPP2
                                                              Original I  Additional
                                  Component                   Prtject     Financing       Total
           A.        Community Developmentand Local
                     Government Capacity Building                 17.08           30.1      47.18
           B.        KelurahanGrants                              58.82           118.1    176.92
           C.        PovertyAlleviation Partnershir, Grant
                     (PAPG)                                       35.23             0.0     35.23
           D.        Implementationsupport                         9.73             24      33.73
                   I
                   I Unallocated& Front end fee                    6.13I              0 1    6.13
                     TotalProjectCosts                          126.99*I          172.2 I  299.19




B. KelurahanGrants                 85.7                 0      85.7           23.8          8.6     118.1

C. PovertyAlleviation
PartnershipGrant                      0                 0         0              0            0        0
D.Implementation
support                            19.7                0       19.7            4.3           0        24

Subtotal                          135.5                 0     135.5          28.1          8.6      172.2
TOTAL PROJECT
COST                            205.97              29.53     235.5         41.38         22.31    299.19




                                                          13

             Annex 2: Indonesia's NationalCommunityEmpowermentStrategy

1.      On August 16, 2006, the President o f Indonesia announced that his government would
support a national program for poverty reduction. This will be the first national program for
sustainable poverty reduction - rather than crisis management -- since the East Asian Crisis
plungednearly 40 percent o f Indonesia's population into poverty. The program consists o f two
main approaches: Conditional Cash Transfer Program and the National Program for Community
Empowerment.

2.      Approximately USS4.0 billion would be invested in a conditional cash transfer program
(CCT) to improve poor people's use o f social services. In its first year the CCT program would
target 1.7 millionpoor families, with a planto riseto 18.0millionpoor families by 2009.

3.      The second wing o f the poverty program i s called the National Program for Community
Empowerment. Called PNPM in Indonesian,(Prograrn Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat) the
PNPM covers both rural and urban parts o f Indonesia. Both rural and urban areas will be built by
scaling-up two World Bank-financed community driven development projects, the Kecamatan
Development Project and the Urban Poverty Project. By 2009, all 5,300 rural and urban sub-
districts inthe county will be covered with one o f these two programs.

4.      Indonesia's PNPM i s an evolving idea that will be plannedover the course o f 2007 before
going national, but its main outlines have been provided by the Coordinating Minister o f Social
Welfare. PNPM will be part o f a national poverty reduction framework that includes a social
safety net, improved asset security, and increased use o f core health and education services.

5.      PNPM will be developed over the 2007-2009 period. When fully developed, the program
will cover all rural and urban communities in Indonesia. The program will consist primarily of
scaling up the existing Bank-assisted KDP and UPP programs, but the scale-up would be
supported by a numbero f evaluations to identify improvements or missingelements. Other donor
programs will also be evaluated and brought into the national design.

6.      A number of strategic choices must be made as part of the national scale-up. They
include: (a) one national program or many projects united by an umbrella concept; (b)
coordination with line agency service delivery; (c) management o f the national PNPM given that
the existing poverty programs are implemented by different ministries; (d) centralized or
decentralized management; and (e) long-term financing framework.

7.      A preliminaryeconomic assessment of PNPM showed that by 2009, when the program
would cover all kecamatans at the proposed benefit level o f Rp. 3 billion per kecamatan, it can
potentially benefit nearly 14 million families, increasing their income by 11percent by providing
an average o f60 days o fwork. Some 7-9 million households would be pulledout o fpoverty.

8.      The additional income would benefit primarily workers when they needit the most. It will
raise the wages o f all unskilled workers significantly, even those that had no contact with the
program, by reducing the competition from desperate workers who drive all wages down. By



                                                 14

developing economically productive roads, irrigation and drainage works, water supply and
sanitation works, PNPM will permanently increase employment and income. Injecting
purchasing power into villages and poor urban areas will have an indirect effect in "activating"
the village economy.

9.      GO1has already indicated that it anticipates a need for start-up support to help the PNPM
program. Estimated financing needs from the World Bank, ADB, and JBIC for the 2008-2009
period are approximately US$600 million. The government plans to use 2007 to discuss with
donors the most suitable form of mediumand longer term donor assistance. The government has
asked the Decentralization Support Facility, a multi-donor trust fund managed by the World
Bank, to promote harmonized dialogue with the government, to coordinate donor engagement on
the PNPM.




                                                15

                     Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoringof UPP-PNPM

        (Indicators that are UI dined have been drawn from the original UPP 2 I iults monitoring framework)
              PDO                                 OutcomeIndicators                       Useof OutcomeInformation

Urban poor intargetedurban      1) 30 % ofpoor households in7,273 kelurahans             Year 5: determine whether the
areas benefit from improved        receive benefitsand improved services from UPP-       project needs design
services and infrastructure        PNF'M                                                 improvements; provide inputs into
identifiedanddeliveredina          -  20% ofrevolving fund recipients have increased     the preparationofnationaland
more effective and                   their income level                                  local poverty alleviation strategies
participatory manner               - infrastructurebuilt i 20% cheaper than that built
                                                           s
                                     by non community basedmethods & meets the
                                     needs of the community (inlinewith the CDPs)

                                   - the provision of grant assistance continues in
                                     in 80% (5,818) of participating kelurahans

                                     35% (2,545) of participating kelurahans
                                   - 80% satisfactionlevel of beneficiaries regarding
                                     improved services
                               2) At least 70% (5,092) of the BKMs are
                                   representative, effective, and operateina
                                   participatory manner
                                3) 30% (78) local governments provide their own
                                resourcesfor project monitering, partnership,
                                channelingprogramto supportthe CDPs, etc
                                4) CentralGovernment establishesalong term
                                financial framework for its poverty reductionprogram
    IntermediateResults                            ResultsIndicators                       Use ofResultsMonitoring

ComponentOne:                  ComponentOne:                                           Component One:
Organized community groups      a) (I)% of population participatedin series of         . Assess whether the design of BKM
                                                                                       ..
increasinglyvoice demands                communitv discussions during                    formation and CDP arrangements
                                         implementationof UPP-PNPM                       needadjustment
                                    (2) % of female and vYlnerable groups                Review whether the poverty
                                         participating                                   reflection gatheringshould be
                                b) # of communitv volunteers are recruitedDer            adjusted
                                    kelurahan                                            Determinewhether the
                                c) % of the kelurahanpouulation aware of the uroiect     socialization and electionprocesses
                                    and its obiectives                                   needto be improved
                                d) (1) % of the adult population voting in BKM
                                       elections at the neighborhoodlevel
                                    (2) % of adult uouulation voting inthe final stage
                                       of BKMelection
                                    (3)   % of women electedas BKM member
                                e)  (I)%ofkelurahanswithCommunity
                                    DevelopmentPlans (CDPs) completed andratified
                                    (2) % of CDPs implemented
                                    (3)% of kelurahanDoDulationaware of CDP
                                Q % BKM Forums formed as apercentageof
                                                                                       ..
                                    participating local governments
Component Two:                  Component Two:                                         Component Two:
BKMs deliver improved           3) (1) % ofpoor families benefiting from                 Determine if additional technical
services to the poor                infrastructure                                       assistance is requiredin specific
                                  (2) % of infrastructureworks evaluated as high         areas
                                    quality                                              Determine whether participatory
                                J) (1) % ofpoor families with access to revolving        process for formulation of CDPs
                                    fund                                                 needsto be adjusted
                                   (2) % of female revolving fund recipients
                                ;) %ofkelurahanswith revolvingfunds having
                                    repayment rates over 90%
                                i) %ofpoorfamiliesreceivinggrantassistance
                                   (1)



                                                               16

                                  (2) % of female grant recipients
                              e) % of female incommunitv ~ O U D(KSMs)
                                                                   S
                              f ) % of BKMs receiving financial assistance from
                                                                                   ...
                                   other agencies
ComponentThree:               ComponentThree:                                      ComponentThree:
Centraland Local              a) # ofPAPGcities selected                              Determine whether the processof
governmentsdeliver improved   b) % of local government staff aware of PAPGin          preparationneeds to be adjusted
servicesto the urbanpoor,          PAPGcities                                         Assess whether the processofjoint
includingthrough partnership  c) # ofPAPGselection committees formed                  preparationof proposalsneeds to
with BKMsandthe private       d) # of PAPG sub-Droiectscomdeted Der city              be improved
sector                        e) % of local government co-financing inPAPG            Assess whether the format and
                              f ) % ofDoor amongdirect beneficiariesof services       mechanism of partnership needs to
                                   provided under PAPG/Dercentpoor incity             be adjusted
                                   pomlation
                              g) % ofkelurahanpopulationaware ofPAPGin
                                   PAPG cities
                              h) Central Governmentissues apolicypaper for long
                                                                                   .
                                   term poverty reduction
ComponentFour:                ComponentFour:                                       ComponentFour:
Consultantsprovide technical  a) % of tarpetedareas receivingtechnicalSUUDO~~         Gauge whether technical assistance
assistance and implementation b) % of OCs providingtimely & accurate data             and implementationsupportneeds
support to the project             through MIS                                        to be improved or increased
                              c) % of BKMs with comdeted annual financial audits      Providetimely & accurate data to
                                                                                      inform managementdecisions




 This is the only indicatorinthis section that will be monitoredfor the additional financing.




                                                            17

y

E
c!
i
j
3:




9
i
G
i

   .  gm

      cr
      0
      s

          T
Y   8




x
5    VI
     E
VI




-x9-x
4    9m




fi
N




s
N
VI


I

T




     0
     N

      Annex 4: FinancialManagementAssessment and DisbursementArrangements


1.      In response to the GOI's request for additional financing o f US$135.5 million in
IBRDIIDA funds to scale up UPP 2, a financial management assessment of that program was
undertaken. The purpose o f the assessment i s to determine whether the financial management
system o f the existing Project Management Unit (PMU)6 has the capacity-to produce timely,
relevant and reliable financial information on the additional project activities. It i s also
intended to determine if the accounting systems for the project expenditures and underlying
internal controls are adequate to ensure that funds are used only for intended purposes thereby
allowing the Bank to monitor compliance with agreed implementation procedures and assess
progress towards meeting project objectives. This assessment i s incremental to assessments
previously conducted and considers only the increased capacity required for the additional
activities; the fiduciary experience inimplementingthe existing project and lessons learned.

2.      There are some financial management risks related to the additional financing. The first
risk is capacity o fthe community to manage the block grants, particularly with respect to how
effectively BKM use and account for the funds. This activity relies heavily on individual
consultants and facilitators, and poorly trained individuals or inadequate compliance with
operational procedures would create financial risks. The second risk is the financial
management capacity o f the PMU which i s still managing UPP 2 and UPP 3. The additional
financing may stretch the capacity o f the agency. The third risk i s a continuous delay in the
authorization o f the budget documents that could affect project disbursements. The fourth risk
would arise fiom internal control lapses at the local branches o f the commercial bank utilized
for community bank accounts.

3.      Appropriate measures have been developed to mitigate these risks, primarily as
enhancements o f the control measures already built into the existing UPP projects inthe area of
financial management. These include: enhanced audit sampling; hiring additional facilitators;
and prior review o f formal agreements with the commercial bank being used for local flow o f
funds.

4.      Overall, the financial management risk for additional financing i s assessed as being
high prior to undertaking the risk mitigation plan, and substantial, once the risk mitigation
planhas been implemented. This assessment has concluded that with the implementationo f the
recommendations proposed here, the risks will be substantially mitigated, and the proposed
financial management arrangements will satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under
OP/BP10.02 and 13.20.

ProjectDescription

5.      The UPP Program i s designed to provide improved services for the urban poor and to
strengthen community and government institutions for responsive service delivery using
community-driven development (CDD) approaches. Three operations totaling US$338.7
million have been approved to date to support the UPP Program. The program provides un-

 DG.Humansettlements inMinistryofPublicWorks`(MPW)


                                               21

earmarked block grants that are used to finance economically productive activities that have
been planned through facilitated ward (kelurahan) meetings. More than 6,400 Indonesian
kelurahans inthe poorest urban areas in 33 provinces have participated in and benefited from
the program, with the majority o f funds supporting small-scale infrastructure. Typical projects
range from kelurahan roads, drainage schemes, housing rehabilitation, and small canals to
social funds and revolving funds. The UPP has also proven to be an effective mechanism for
post-disaster recovery. Inresponseto the 2004 tsunami, the project has successfully supported
community-based housingreconstruction inAceh. The block grants are disburseddirectly from
the Special Account through a commercial bank to bank accounts collectively held by
community groups (called BJSM).

6.      UPP 2 (US$lOO million as IBRD/IDA funds) i s currently providing block grants and
technical assistance to 2,059 kelurahan in 13 Provinces. Inaddition, the operation i s providing
basic technical assistance to 2,621 kelurahan that were covered by UPP 1 to enhance their
sustainability after completion o f block grant activities by facilitating BKMcollaboration with
the local governments. UPP 3 (US$138 million as IBRD/ IDA funds) i s providing financing to
1,726 kelurahan in 15 Provinces. Additional financing i s not needed for these 1,726 kelurahan
in 2007 as there is funding available from UPP 3. The proposed additional financing will
provide "bridge funding" to continue activities in most o f the kelurahan supported by UPP 1
and UPP 2 and to scale up the program to include 4,464 new kelurahan not covered previously
by any of the UPP operations. The additional financing will only be applied to the following
project components: Community Development and Local Government Capacity Building
(22%), KelurahanBlock Grants (63%), and Implementation Support (15%). Incalendar year
2006, UPP, as a program, disbursed approximately US$lOO million; the scaled-up program
underthe new PNPMwill disburse approximately US$135.5 million over the next 18 months.

Country Issues

7.     Based on the Country Financial Management Assessment (CFAA) and other analytical
work by the Bank and other donors, there are acknowledged deficiencies in the country's
Public Financial Management (PFM) area that have been accepted by the government. These
include:

       e       Inefficiencies inthe budget formulation process.
       0       Separation o frecurrent and development budgets.
       0       Fragmented cashmanagement and government banking arrangements
       e       Unreliable accounting and reporting systems.
       e       Unclear roles and responsibilities inexternal and internal audit arrangements
       e       Capacity constraints inaudit institutions.

8.     Recent PFM reforms in Indonesia have been part o f a broader reform agenda o f
macroeconomic stability set out inthe Government White Paper o f 2003. The Government has
formulated a reform plan and a target to have a sound PFM system in place by 2008. The
Indonesia PFM reform agenda i s being led by the Government, with technical support being
providedby manydonors, including the World Bank.




                                                22

9.      In recent years there has been steady, though slow, progress in implementing these
reforms. Inparticular, the regulatory instruments needed to initiate reforms have been issued,
including the State Finance Law no. 17/2003, State Treasury Law no. 1/2004 and the Public
Accountability Law no. 15/2004, which provide a legal basis for improvements in the
country's public financial management. Other reforms in the areas o f budgeting and treasury
management are ongoing. This situation impacts the financial management arrangements for
this project to the extent that this project relies on Government financial management and
project implementation systems.

InstitutionalArrangements

10.     The project management unit (PMU) will continue to be located at the (DG Cipta
Karya) Ministry o f Public Work (MPW), which manages all UPP activities. The project
management unit i s staffed by civil servants and assisted by a team o f individual consultants
and facilitators. Project Implementation Units (PIU) at the provincial level will be under MPW
provincial offices. At the sub district level, there will be sub-PIUs (PJOK) that will administer
the block grant agreements and proposals from the BKMs. The implementation o f the block
grant program will be executed by community groups (BKMs) and will apply the community-
driven development (CDD) social control mechanisms established through the existing UPP
framework. There will be financial management units under each BKM comprised o f
community members or professional staff.

11.     The PMU will hire a large number o f additional individual consultants and facilitators
to assist the BKMs in the block grant implementation. Technical assistance will be provided
through the national management consultants (NMC) at the central level, and oversight
consultant (OC) teams at the provincial level, with offices in the participating districts. There
are 224 PJOK inUPP2; 229 PJOK inUPP 3 and additional new 381 PJOK under the PNPM.

Strengths and Weaknesses

12.     The existingproject has strengths and weakness in several areas. The project design has
strengths that derive from using a CDD mechanism to work with communities that is well
documented in manuals andhas been appliedin several CDD projects. Some o f the strengths
are as follows:

        The BKMreceives the block grant directly inits community-operated bank account
        from the Govt Treasury offices andmanage local payments themselves.
    0   The community has stronger ownership, which creates incentives for community
        control over funds.
    0   Externalmonitoring unit are hired through the PMU.
        The C D D management tools and systems used under existingongoing CDD programs
        inIndonesiasuchas UPP, KDP are provento be effective on flow o ffundsmechanism,
        reporting and project monitoring.

13.     Based on supervision missions and audit reports o f the existing projects, we note
weaknesses. Among them are:



                                                 23

     e  The capacity o fBKMto manage and implementthe block grants i s weak at some
        locations.
     e  The capacity o f local governments to supervise and assist community groups i s weak at
        some locations.
     e  The capacity o ffacilitator kelurahan to provide financialmanagement assistancecould
        beweakened iftrained facilitators cannot be selectedandretained..
     e  A continuous delay inthe authorization o fthe budgetdocuments that could affect
        project disbursements.
     e  Instances o fweak internal controls at the commercial bank could arise, resultingin
        illegitimate diversion o f community funds.

14.     The project's weaknesses create some risks to project implementation. The Bank
recommends several mechanisms to mitigate these risks. Among them are:

        To provide intensive training programto staff and individual consultants at the PIU,
        PJOK and BKMlevels.
        Establish FMcontrol at the central level for the consolidation and classification o f the
        expenditures;
        To hire additional individual financial management consultants at the national,
        provincial, district and community levels. There will be 1,295 FMconsultants for all
        levels;
        To increasethe BPKP audit samplingto at least 20% o fthe participating sub-districts
        (kecamatans), with a sample o fkelurahans selectedbasedon BPKP criteria. The
        auditor will also conduct an operational audit at the community level, including sub-
        project implementation at the community level, and for this purpose use the audit
        program that has been specifically developed for CDD operations.
        Use o f a commercial bank to channel the block grant, which has significantly enhanced
        the disbursement capacity inAceh. Formal agreements with the commercialbank will
        bereviewedand strengthenedto allow remediesto communities for internal control
        lapses at localbranches o f the bank.

Risk Assessment Summary

15.     A detailed analysis o f financial management risks arising from the country situation,
the existing project entities, additional project features and related internal controls has been
completed during this additional assessment. This analysis i s summarized below. These risks
have been rated on a scale from High,Substantial, Moderate and Low.




 A. Inherent
 Risks
 Country Level
 Budget               H         Government is    gradually reforming PFM N



                                               ,,24

execution              procedures. The Bank assists the government
ineflciencies          through GFMRAP project.
and delays
                       Poor civil service payment structures & lack of
                 H     sanction. The government has started civil        N
Civil Services         services reform. However, payment structure
                       remains     inadequate     and     needs   hrther
                       enforcement to exercise sanction.
EntityLevel
Implementing     M     Clarity of implementing entity. P M U i s under
Entity                 Ministry of Public Works (MPW) structure.
Organization           M P W has long experience managing the Bank
                       financed projects, including UPP.

                  S    The    Ministry follows       the government's
Accounting &           accounting system and uses the government
financial              accounting       software      (SAK),      though
reporting              implementation o f new government accounting
capacity               standards remains a challenge. The P M U has
constraints            adequate staff under its financial department.
Project Level
Using CDD              Project location is'nation wide and decentralized;Y, a draft o frevisions
design                 and will comprise a large number o f small         to project manual for
                       transactions. CDD mechanisms are inplace, incl.    uPP2 -Additional
                       community plan, execution and accountability       Financing, to be
                       mechanisms.                                        submitted to Bank
                                                                          before negotiations
                       There will be 7,273 kelurahan with 2,911 new      N
                       kelurahans. The project will provide TA to
                       kelurahans and local governments that join the
                       project. The existing project systems and
                       structures to supervise implementation will be
                       strengthened and extended to cover additional
                       areas o fthis project.



ControlRisk
Budget                Budget preparation i s well defined, but delay in N
                      execution may arise. Decree on budget execution
                       should be issued,right after budget documents
                       issued
Accounting            Government accounting         standards   are  not
                      followed for GO1 reporting, but for the Bank
                      reporting purposes, separate accounting and
                      reporting procedures for the project expenditures
                      will be applied, identical to existing UPP
                      projects. Risks o f getting timely aggregate
                      financial    reports    arise   from    geographic
                      distribution o f PIUs, and will be mitigated by
                      hiring additional tiained consultants.

                      Limited staff capacity, especially for new local
Staff capacity        PIU and community group. The project will
                      provide technical assistance to the local PIU and
                      community group. Existing FM consultant will



                                          ,25

                     be extended to provide FMsupport to this project
                     also.
Internal             Risks may arise from weak payment verification.
controls             Internal    controls' are   documented      in the
                     operations manual but compliance i s generally
                     weak. An independent unit will verify and certify
                     the Community Group reports.

                     Bank reconciliation i s adequate at the P M U
                     level, but not at the community level. Facilitators
Bank                 will also review and check the community books,
reconciliation       including the bank reconciliations on a monthly
                     basis.

Procurement      H   To Select and hire quality consultants will be a     N
                     challenge, especially for the field consultants
                     (facilitators),
Flow o f Funds       The community may not receive the grant in a         Y ,A signed M O U
                     timely manner, or there may be internal control      betweenP M U and
                     lapses at local branches o f the commercial bank     Commercial Bank
                     resulting in misuse o f community funds. To          before effectiveness
                     mitigate this risk, the block grant will continue to
                     be directly transferred to communities through
                     the commercial bank. But the existing MOUs
                     with these banks will be reviewed to help build
                     instronger remedies against poor service.
Financial        H   Risks arise if the project does not produce         N
Reporting            reliable and timely financial reports. At the
                     national level, P M U will prepare a separate
                     financial monitoring report assisted by financial
                     consultants in preparation o f the report. A t the
                     kelurahan level, BKM will prepare simple
                                         .
                     financial reports assisted by facilitators        in
                     preparation o f the report.


Auditing             BPKP will be assigned to conduct annual audits
External Audit       o f project financial statements under the existing
                     audit TOR for UPP 2 developed for CDD
                     projects. The Bank requires BPKP to take at least
                     20% samples o f sub-district.

                     Limited capacity o f the Inspector General and
Internal Audit       local internal auditor will enhance risks. BPKP
                     will be requested to provide training programs to
                     the internal auditor Bawasda under the project
                     activities.

                     Limited capacity o f supervisory board. The
Community            project will introduce and train Badan Pengawas
Audit                (Supervisory     Board)    and   make     them   as
                     communitv auditors.




                                         26

Accounting andReporting

16.      All financial transactions for the project will be recorded inthe government accounting
system and included in the government accountability reports. In addition, the P M U will
prepare a separate set o f project financial reports suitable for project monitoring purposes. The
specific accounting procedures for the project financial report will be included in the project
Operations Manual. The PMU and PIUs will maintain separate accounting records, on a cash
basis. BKM i s required to have simple accounting and financial reports. Facilitators will assist
BKMto prepare simple financial reports.

17.      The PMU in MPW will be responsible for preparation o f aggregated Interim Financial
Reports (IFR) and submit this to the Bank*on a quarterly basis. Special purpose financial
statements for this project will be prepared annually for audit purposes. The IFR format will
follow an agreed format under existing UPP2.

InternalControls

18.      The block grant will be executed by an implementation team under BKM at the
kelurahan level where communities will monitor and check the project progress. The
facilitators will countersign the BKM reports. The BKM cannot withdraw funds without a
countersignature from the facilitator. Inorder to obtain the approval o f the facilitator, the BKM
has to produce an acceptable fhds utilization plan or progress report.          The frequency o f
withdrawals depends in part on physical proximity to the bank from the kelurahan, but in
principle the amount o f cash kept in the kelurahan i s as small as practical. Other internal
controls procedures follow the project Operations Manual.

19.      There will be verification and reconciliation o f the project expenditures at the local as
well as national level. The PIUs prepare two reconciliation reports. The first reconciliation
report will be based on payment orders (SP2D) issued by the Treasury Office. The second
reconciliationreport will be based on payments from the main account to the UPK account. At
the community level, UPK will reconcile UPK books and its bank statements. The last
reconciliation takes place at the PMU level and will reconcile all SP2D and SA statements. The
facilitator will assist PJOK and UPK in conducting the reconciliation. The central management
consultant will assist P M U on the SA reconciliation.

ProjectTransparency

20.     The PMU has established a project web site (http://www.p2kp.org). The web site is
considered as the most active project web site o f Bank financed projects. Over 100people may
access the web on a daily basis. The public may find almost all project information, and can
use the site for the filing o f complaints. The PMU as well as the Bank use all information inthe
web site as data input from the field. The information inthe web i s faster than formal reporting
inmost o fthe cases.




                                                 27

Audit Arrangements

21.      There i s no outstanding audit report due under any UPP project. Over the last three
years, all audit reports were received before or on the due date. However, the latest audit report
o f UPP2 for fiscal 2005 has a qualified opinion due to significant differences in aggregate
financial expenditures as reported and those actually spent. Further analysis by the project
financial management team identified the main reason for such differences to be the exclusion
from project financial statements expenditures that were funded initially from government
funds and subsequently reimbursed from the special account. The project FM staff
misunderstood that such reimbursable amounts were not to be included in annual financial
statements since these were pre-financed by the government and used a different W/A
(withdrawal application). The audit also reported some internal control weaknesses at the
PMU and kelurahan level. The PMUhas taken follow up actions while the PMUrequested all
facilitators to monitor follow up actions at the kelurahan level.

22.      The PMU will be responsible for preparing a special purpose financial statement. The
audit for the financial statement will be carried out by government auditors (BPKP) acceptable
to the Bank. The annual audit report will be h i s h e d to the Bank no later than six months
after the end o f the government's fiscal year. BPKP will use existing audit terms o f reference
(TOR) for UPP 2 and take into account specific audit methodologies that are needed to audit
widely dispersed community based activities, as has been established under other on-going
CDDprojects inthe country.

23.     The TOR will basically include an assertion on the reliability o f the project financial
statements, and will also include a verification o f accounting information at the community
level on a sample basis. The annual audited financial statements will include a review and
reconciliation o f Special Account transactions and quarterly interim financial reports. The audit
reports will be made accessible to the public.

24.     Inaddition, the auditor is required to conduct an operational audit at the BKM level.
The auditor will use the audit program that has been developed for CDD projects. The audit
samplingcoverage will be determined basedon kecamatannumbers and a minimumo f 20% o f
kecamatans should be included inthe audit samples.

DisbursementArrangements

25.     UPP 2 was approved by the Board on June 11, 2002 and became effective on
November 18, 2002. As o f November 10, 2006, US$84 million has been disbursed, out o f the
loan amount o f US$lOO million. The remaining loan amount i s fully committed. Progress o f
disbursements i s considered satisfactory.

26.     Minor adjustments will be made in the project (see below) to further strengthen
disbursement arrangements. In the adjusted disbursement arrangements, execution o f budget
documents (DIPA) for block grants and facilitatorshndividual consultants will be decentralized
to the provincial Satker (Le., MPW's work unit at the province level designated for project
execution). The Province Satker will administer and prepare reports on project activities inthe



                                                28

respective provinces. These reports will be submitted to the P M U and used as the basis for
preparing the consolidated IFR (interim financial report) for the project. The submissions o f
IFRsunder UPP2have been satisfactory. The same P M U for UPP2 at the Ministryo f Public
Works (MPW) will be responsible for consolidating and preparing the IFR for this project.

27.       The same Designated Account (DA) for UPP2 in Bank Indonesia will be used for this
project. Application for the advance shall be submitted together with the reporting on use o f
DA which will consist of: (i) (ii) IFR,       forecasted project expenditures for six months and (iii)
DA reconciliationstatement

Flow of Fundsto CommunityGroups'

28.       Under UPP 2, block grants were remitted to BKM accounts by submission o f payment
orders (SPMs) to the KPPN each time funds were required to be released.                          Under the
restructured project, block grants will be channeled to BKM community group accounts
through a commercial bank (CB), which has a real-time online banking system and extensive
branches in the target areas. MPW will sign master contract agreements with the CB's
headquarters to provide banking services for channeling grant funds; two CBs have been
selected for this purpose. Each province satker will select a CB and will open a dedicated
master account at the provincial level.

29.       Inaccordance with Government procedures, the provincial satker will submit payment
requests (SPM) to the Treasury Office (KPPN), which will issue payment orders (SP2D) to
Bank Indonesia's branch office, which will arrange for remittance o f funds from the DA to the
respective provincial master account in the provincial levels. The C B will provide monthly
statements to the province satker for control and monitoring purposes to ensure that funds are
only withdrawn by eligible beneficiaries.

30.       With assistance from facilitators, eligible BKMswould sign a standard format o f grant
agreement with sub-district's subproject manager (PJOK) that is certified by the Oversight
Consultants (OC), and approved by the district project manager (PPK), When releases o f funds
under the block grants are due, the BKMwith assistance from facilitators will have to complete
a standardized form o f payment requests (SPP) which will need be approved by sub-district's
PJOK, certified by OC and approved by City level's PPK. Once approved, a standard format
of payment instruction (SPB) will be submitted to the CB branch office at the relevant city,
which will verify if the claims match the approved list o f eligible BKMs provided by the
province satker through the C B provincial office and arrange for a real-time direct debit to the
dedicated master account and credit the beneficiaries' bank account. Release o f funds to the
existing BKMs will be made in two tranches (40% and 60%), whereas funds to new BKMs
will be releases in three tranches (20%, 50% and 30%) same as UP P2 and UPP 3. The first
payment i s made upon signing of the block grant agreement, and the subsequent payments will
be made based on satisfactory progress reports as certifiedby OC (see Figure 1).


'Additional  controls have beenaddedfor revolving funds: (i) those BKMs havingat least 80% repayment
                                                            only
rates will be eligible; (ii) newkelurahans will receiverevolving funds; and (iii) assessment study will be
                          no                                                   an
carriedout of the revolving fund component to assess andimprove the currentmethodology.


                                                      29

Facilitatorsand IndividualConsultant PayrollSystem

31.     The management o f facilitators and other individual consultants (city coordinators and
assistants) will be handled by the province satkers, following the standards set by the PMU.
There will be 3,683 additional facilitators to be hired individually by the province satkers.
Their performance will be monitored and evaluated by the OCs who report to province satkers.
In order to facilitate the payment of salaries and operational costs, the province satker will
enter into a service agreement with a selected CB to provide banking services for the payroll.
The province satker will maintain an account at the CB's branch office with sufficient deposits
from which salaries and the related operational costs would be remitted to each
personnel/facilitator account on a monthly basis.

                         Allocation of the AdditionalCredit Proceeds


                            Amount o fthe Additional
                            Credit Allocated              %of
  Category                  (Expressed in                 Expenditures
                            SDREquivalent)                to be Financed
  (l)(a) Kelurahan          56,610,000                    100% o f Grant or
  Grants and Sub-loans                                    Sub-loan amount
                                                          disbursed
  (l)(b) Special            -0-                           100%o f Grant or
  Kelurahan                                               Sub-loan amount
  reconstruction Grants                                   disbursed
  (2)Poverty Alleviation    -0-                           100% o f Grant
  Partnership Grants                                      amount disbursed
  (3) Consultants'          32,940,000                    100%
  services under Parts A
  and D o fthe Project
  (4) Fee
  (5) Unallocated           -0-
  TOTAL                     89.550.000

SupervisionPlan

32.     Supervision of project financial management will be performed on a risk-based
approach at least twice a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management
system, including but not limited to sub-grant expenditures, accounting, reporting and internal
control. The financial management supervision will be conducted by a financial management
specialist and Bank consultants.




                                              30

                                             FinancialFindings
                                                  UPP2&3

          Findings                         Action Plan                             Status
1. Inadequate capacity o f       Provide FM training program to    Done,
community organization           BKMAJPK staff and provide FM High turn over o f staff. BKMAJF'K
(BKMAJPK) staff                  consultant to assist BKMAJPK      staff should be re-trained when there
                                                                   i s new staffs join in. Risk of
                                                                   inadequate new staff capacity still
                                                                   exists.
2. Financialreport complexity    Simplification o f the financial  Done
inBKM/UPKlevel                   report: cash flow for BKMand
                                 full financial report for UPK
                                 who manage the revolving find
3. Weak facilitator to supervise Provide FMtrainingprogram to      Done, due to inadequate financial
and monitor financial            facilitator and assign FM         background o fthe facilitator, risk o f
management (FM) aspect in        consultant indistrict level.      weak facilitator to supervise and
BKM/UPK                                                            assist the FM aspect still exists.
                                                                   For PNPM: there will be facilitator
                                                                   with FMbackground and specially
                                                                   assign to supervise and monitor FM
                                                                   aspect inBKMAJPK level.
4. Weak capacity on micro        Provide FMconsultant indistrict   Done, due to geographic constraint,
credit management inUPK          level to assist U P K on micro    UPKhas not adequate assisted by
level                            credit management                 the consultant.
                                                                   For PNPM: there will be additional
                                                                   facilitator with FMbackground and
                                                                   specially assign to supervise and
                                                                   monitor FM aspect inBKMKJPK
                                                                   level.
5. Inadequate supporting         Facilitator should assist         Done,
documents inBKM/UPKlevel         BKMAJPK on book keeping &         Facilitator assistance and
                                 remindthemon adequacy o f         disseminationo frequired supporting
                                 sumortinp documents               document should be keDt remindine.
6. Weak payment verification     Provide training program and      Done, due to turnover o f
and reconciliationin             establishment o f community       B K M N P K staff and facilitator,
BKM/UPKlevel                     control and involvement o f       refresh training program is needed.
                                 facilitator to review and verify  For PNPM, FM consultant will
                                 the community book                assist P M U P I U and facilitator will
                                                                   assist B W P K on bank
                                                                   reconciliation.
7. Poor compliance with project  Facilitator should ensure that    Done,
operation manual                 B K M N P K comply with the       For PNPM, There will be
                                 operationmanual                   monitoring system to ensure that
                                                                   BKM/WKcomply with the
                                                                   operationmanual.
8. Disbursement time delay       Use a commercial bank to speed    Done,
                                 up the disbursement               Aceh is a pilot and shows significant
                                                                   improvement




                                                       31

Procurement

33.    The kelurahans follow simple procurement procedures approved by the Bank's
procurement team. The procurement risk i s higher in the PMU that selects the project
consultant, including field consultant (facilitators). Besides regular supervision, there i s no
performance audit o fthe consultant to date.

Action Plan

                         Action                            Responsibility     DueDate
1. A draft revised project operation manual for the             P M U      Before
additional financing that includes some specific                           negotiation
additional features noted inthis assessment.
2. Recruitment o f additional consultants / facilitators,       PMU        First quarter
including FMconsultants                                                    after project
                                                                           effectiveness
3. Training and socialization for field consultant and          P M U      First quarter
local government                                                           after project
                                                                           effectiveness
4. A signed M O Ubetween the PMU and a Commercial               P M U      Before
Bank on banking services arrangement to channel the                        effectiveness
block grant to BKMs, including some remedies
acceptable to the Bank for internalcontrol lapses.
5. A signed M O U between the PMU and a Commercial              PMU        Before
Bank on banking services arrangement to channel the                        effectiveness
funds for facilitatodindividual consultant salaries
6. An Audit TOR acceptable to the Bank, which                   PMU        Before
includes at least 20% o fDroiect kecamatans                                negotiation




                                               32

                                   Figure1: Flow of Funds for BlockGrants



                                       ........................................
                                                           A/w 5c
                                                                -



                                                                                        BankIndonesia


                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                I
.                                                                                                               I
Frl                                                 BKM Master List 2d -


           (Satker Province)



Proposed List                                                                            BKM
                  2c                                                                Master List          I..r(l,l*



                                                 3 -- Notice                               2e
                                                             of authorized                             4c       I
                                                       PPK and OC                                               I

                                       ................             ...............
                                                                                  r                             I
                                                                                           CB Local         I
                                                                                                                I
                                 4                      Instruction to
                           +-ti.......................................
                                                        Pay 4b



                                          q-l.,
                    Proposed List



                                                                                                               I
                                                   Sub-District                                    Transfer I
                                                                                                   On-line

                                                                                                        4d I
                                                                                 Request                       I
                                                                                 for payment
                                                                                 4a                            I

                                                                      fff                                      I
                                                                                                               I
  .........................                                                                                    II
  i                              .............,
  t........................
      Facilitators                                                                                             I
                                                             11111111111111~                                   I



                                                                33

Notes for Figure 1:
l a  Memorandum o f understanding on the fund channeling mechanism
lb   Project manual from MPW to the Province Satkers and PPK

2a   After community preparations are completed, SPPB (grant agreement) between BKM
     and PJOK i s signed
2b   PJOKto submit the proposed list (grantee, address, amount) through the OCs to the PPK
2c   PPK to submit the proposed list (grantee, address, amount) to the Province Satker
2d   Province Satker issues the "approved master list" (id. No, grantee, address, amount) to
     C B at the provincial level
2e   The provincial CB to distribute the approved master list to the relevant C B Branches
     (paying bank) at local/district/city level
3    PPK to submit the names and signatures of PPK and OC to Local CB Branch

3a   Based on the MOU, Province Satker issues a request for payment (SPM) to WPN
3b   KPPN issues a payment order to Bank Indonesia to arrange payments from Designated
     Account (DA) to A/C Induk

4a   When payment is due, BKM submits a request for payment (SPP) to PJOK and if
     approved he/she will forward it to the OC
4b   Once OC verified and approved it will forward to PPK and if approved, he/she forwards
     the payment instruction (SPB) to the Local CB Branch
4c/d After verifications at the C B Branch, it arrange an on-line transfer funds crediting the
     BKMaccount anddebit the A/C Indukat the CB BranchProvince

5a   C B branch province to provide the Province Satker with reports and bank statements
     regularly
5b   The Province Satker reports its IFR to PMUJakarta, which will consolidate and reconcile
     with the DA bank statements from BI, prepare the consolidated IFRand submit it through
    the DGTreasury
5c  DGTreasury forwards the F Rand N Wto WBOJ
5d   WB replenishes the hnds to the Designated Account




                                               34

                                    Annex 5: Procurement

General
1.      As this is additional financing to the Second Urban Poverty Project (LN 4664), the
existing organizational set up and management will be used for this Project. The idea i s to
expand the existing UPP 2 to include several other villages throughout the country and to
implement using the existing mechanism and system. Procurement will consist of hiring a
number of management consultants (large value contracts), monitoring consultants, and
individual facilitators, in addition to allocation o f some 70 percent o f the project funds for
community grants (following the existing community participationprocedures).
2.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. General descriptions o f
various items under different expenditure categories are outlined below. For each contract to be
financed by the Loadcredit, specific procurement methods or consultant selection methods,
estimated costs, prior review requirementsand timeframe are agreed betweenthe Borrower and
the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
ininstitutionalcapacity.


Community Grants

3.      Community grants include the Kelurahan Grants (USS85.7 million equivalent). The
additional financing will disburse community grants in various kelurahans in all provinces.
Procurement underthe community grants will utilize community participation, usingforms and
procedures (i.e. comparison o f three prices by at least three community members, and
announce the procurement report at the community meeting) as definedinthe existing Project
Operational Manual o fUPP 2, with minor revision to include the additional villages. Based on
previous implementation under the UPP 1, 2, and 3, it is apparent that these procedures greatly
increase transparency o f the procurement process, and adherence to these procedures has
significantly improved. N o significant findings are evident from supervision missions and
audits, except the lack o f the availability o f documentation. This will be part o f enforcement
under this additional financing.

Selection of Consultants

           4.       Consultant services requiredunderthis project include the following:

               o 48 management services as follows:
               0    Two contract packages for management services providing assistance at the
                    national level to the P M U in the overall management, including project
                    supervision, coordination, monitoring and reporting (referred to as the
                    National Management ConsultantNMC, total contract amount i s between




                                                 35

                         US$ 0.9 up to US$2.4 million equivalent for 16 months up to the end o f the
                         project, subject to performance evaluation by the end o f 12months);
                     0   36 contract packages for technical assistance (TA) for managing the district
                     teams, including village facilitators. (This TA i s referred to as the Oversight
                     Consultants/OC). The contracts vary from US$0.05 million to US$1.5 million'
                     and will be for 22 months, up to December 2008. The tasks o f the OCs include:
                     supervision, coordination, monitoring and support o f kota coordinators;
                     consolidation o f reports from city coordinators into OC reporting; and sub-
                     project verification and oversight. The OC's will also play a key role in
                     involving provincial governments inthe project. This will involve: acting as the
                     conduit for information that !he provincial government may request on all
                     aspects o f the project; and being responsible for sharing information on the
                     project on a regular basis with the provincial government.
                     0   There will be one package o f an Evaluation Consultant (US$0.5 million
                     equivalent), which will carry out the major evaluation study o f the project and
                     monitoring. In addition, there will be nine evaluation studies which may be
                     assigned to a firm, NGO or individual consultants, to be identified during
                     implementation depending on the needs. Each contract for a firm /NGO and
                     individual consultants is expected to be small (less than US$lOO,OOO).

                     o A large number o f individual consultants (including city coordinators,
               assistant coordinators, and facilitators) a total o f 6,000 consultants, for a total
               amount of US$28 million equivalent), to supervise and facilitate 7,273 villages.

5.        It i s the government's policy (endorsed by the Bank country management) to reduce
poverty by escalating community based projects to become a national program, to be
implemented starting January 2007. This decision was not made, however, until September
2006. Therefore, there is an urgent needthat this program be implemented in a timely manner
in early 2007. The on-time availability of consultant firms to assist the project is highly
requiredto support this operation. Furthermore, the areas (villages/districts) that this additional
financing will cover will coincide with the existing UPP 2 & UPP 3 areas, in which
consistency o f approach and on timely assistanceto community i s predominant, and therefore,
the existing consultants may be awarded on single source basis. This would include 38
management services (i.e.               the National Management Consultants, and the Oversight
Consultants), with the understandingthat a new selection process for similar contract packages
will be carried out if the project will be expanded fbrther in200S9, as will later be developed
and defined in the new separate Loan/Credit/Grant. Each o f the above contract packages will
go through normal SSS processeswith prior review by the Bank.




* Under  the existing UPP 2 and UPP 3 arrangements, the facilitator salaries are included as part o f the OC
contracts. This cost component will be removed from the extended contracts under this additional financing
project, as facilitators will be hired directly by the Provincial Satkers, and the facilitator costs under the contract
will be reallocated for the required additional activities.
9    Ifnecessary, the selection ofnewconsultants for thenext coming project in2008 will beinitiated6-8 months
     ahead before the loannegotiation.


                                                            36

6.      Village facilitators (including city coordinators, and assistant coordinators, annual
contract range from US$3,000 up to US$8,000 equivalent) will be hired directly and their
salaries will be paid by the Provincial Satker". However, the management o f day to day
operations o f the facilitators (including their quality o f outputs) will be done by the respective
OC firms. Since the Provincial Satker has Gery limited capacity to handle a large number
transactions related to facilitator contracts, a maximum o f two OC staff will be specifically
assigned to assist the Provincial Satker in preparing the contract documents and payment
certificates for the facilitators.

7.      The thresholds for prior review and the revisedprocurement method will be determined
inthe procurement plan, taking into account inputs from the Bank's supervision missions. At
the current stage, all contracts (firms) for more than US$ 100,000 and all sole sourced contracts
are subject to prior review by the Bank. Ail consultancy contracts (firms) less than USD$
400,000 equivalent may have shortlist of all national firms.

Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

8.      Procurement activities will be carried out by the Ministry o f Public Works through the
Directorate General o f Human Settlement (DG-CK). The existing staff, organization structure,
and system that are runningthe UPP 2 will be used to runthis proposed Project. Dueto urgent
implementationand the need for maintaining'the existing capacity, and natural continuation o f
services for existing management consultants within the same areas/villages/districts, single
sourcing the existingmanagement consultants may be followed.

9.      There is no major risk related to procurement under the community grants with the
current project design. Bank supervision missions and audits only found deficiency on record
keeping, as community members normally work based on trusts. The major risks for the
project remain corruption and efficiency o f the project management inadministering contracts.
For this purpose, the following actions have beenagreed and costed into the project design:

(a) The Project Operational Manual will be revisedto includethe additional villages.

(b) The existingpractices ofproviding access for people to raise any complaints and disclosure
   o f contract information on the P2KP website (www.p2kp.orq) will continue and
    strengthened.
(c) Samples for independent ex post review will cover at least 2% by value o f procurement
   under community grants and village facilitator contracts. The independent ex post review
   will be conducted by the internal state auditor (BPKP). BPKP has experience in dealing
   with CDD type projects, and it has offices throughout the country. A special addendum to
   the current TOR o f BPKP will also be made to include end use checks and to spot check
   the integrityofinformationand expenses ofthe large value consultancy contracts.

10.     However, the size o f contracts/loan amount as well as the short implementation period
makes the overall project risk for procurement high.

lo The Provincial Satker is part of the provincial government structure; however,it is established by a decree by
   MPW andreportsdirectly to the PMU.


                                                      37

ProcurementPlan

11.     The Borrower procurement plan was agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Team on December 30, 2006. It will be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will.be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutionalcapacity.

Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

12.     Inadditionto the previouslyreviewed supervision to be carried out from Bankoffices,
the capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency includes recommended annual
supervision missions to carry out post review of procurement actions. The ex post procurement
review will rely on BPKP's audit. BPKP will carry this out for the community grants and
individual facilitators' contracts,




                                                38

                              Annex 6: Anti-corruption Action Plan

1.      The objective o f this Anti-corruption Action Plan for UPP 2 additional financing is to
identify corruption risks and mitigation measures beyond the standard control systems
employed by the Bank. While more detailed, program-specific control systems are outlined in
Annex 4: Financial Management & Disbursement Arrangements and Annex 5: Procurement
Arrangements, this Action Plan (a) maps the potential risks o f corruption; and (b) presents
program activities to address these risks inthe form o f an Action Plan.

2.      This action plan also builds upon the many good governance features already being
implemented, including the UPP website. The project follows a learning approach and
implementation experiences will be incorporated continually into implementation processes.
The Anti-corruption Action Plan should therefore be seen as a starting point and not an all-
inclusive list o f mitigation measures.

CorruptionMapping

3.      The matrix included inthis action planidentifies some potential risks o f corruption and
specifies some appropriate mitigation measures that have been agreed to by the Ministry o f
Public Works (MPW) (see table below: Corruption Mapping Matrix). The mapping exercise i s
repeated duringthe lifetime o f the project to incorporate innovations and lessons learned.

The Action Plan

4.      The anti-corruption strategy has been developed for two separate entities: one at the
central level (with MPW as the executing agency) and one at the community level (focused on
project beneficiaries as well as implementing units o f the sub-projects). Community level
participation and empowerment are crucial to the success o f the project. Together, these factors
will encourage greater accountability andbetter governance.

5.      This project empowers the community to manage the sub-projects and be responsible
for the technical quality o f deliveries and outputs at the kelurahan level. The design o f the
project incorporates careful socialization and transparent management techniques to enable
necessary participation and empowerment. Active participation from members o f the
community i s required in planning and developing sub-projects. In addition, the program
provides funds channeled directly to the community, i.e. to the BKM account. Once the
beneficiaries fulfill the drawdown conditions, the funds are remitted from the special account
within a few days. Simple, standard formats'are used for recording and reporting the use o f
funds. This simplification reduces the need for special skills whilst making the system more
transparent and accountable. Through active participation there i s a greater likelihood for
communities to demand services o f the urban local governments and ensure transparent
accounting o fresources earmarked for effective management and livelihood improvement.

6.     Some o f the most important aspects o f the anti-corruption action plan can be
summarized into the five key elements that follow. Underpinning each o f these elements i s the
consultative process that ensures participation'and empowerment.


                                                39

A) Enhanced Disclosure Provisions and Transparency. The program will involve the
Bank'snew disclosure provisions, further simplifyingdisclosed materials and makingthem
readily available through public information centers. Salient information will be made
available to communities by a range o f means, including public meetings and notice
boards. Specific disclosure measures will include, but not be limited to:
      Public disclosure o f annual procurement plans and schedules (and their updates),
      biddingdocuments and requests for proposals.

      Disclosure to all bidders o f the summary o f the evaluation and comparison o f bids,
      proposals, offers, and quotations, after the successful bidder is notified.

      Disclosure o f audit reports.
B) Civil Society Oversight.The programrecognizes that greater oversight by civil society
i s likely to reduce the risk o f corruption and misuse o f power. The program involves a high
degree o f formal participation by community groups, such as beneficiaries, the private
sector, and traditionalladat and religious leaders, through mechanisms such as the
monitoring o f the projectdend results, memberships o f the tender committee, and the
evaluation o f the quality o f delivery procured services/products. Existing NGOs and other
civil society organizations will be involved in a variety o f ways, inter alia: a) through
participation inthe regional workshops; b) as key resource persons for the development o f
Community Development Plans (CDPs) where possible; c) as evaluators on an ad-hoc
basis; and d) as training providers inparticular skill areas.

C) MitigatingCollusion,Fraud & Nepotism. Opportunities for collusion and fraud exist
in any project. However, since the central theme o f this project is improved and more
responsive governance, many o f the possible risks are mitigated through project design.
Collusion, fraud and nepotism will be reduced through transparent and well-advertised
procurement activities. Additional auditing and procurement procedures are proposed,
such as oversight by technical assistance (TA) and capacity building, with TA procurement
and financial management specialists mapped to each region.              At the central level, a
committee will be formed to regularly evaluate the performance o f the consultants who are
hired under the project. This committee will circulate results to relevant technical parties.
Cases o f collusion, fraud and nepotism will be reported directly to the attorney general
office, as mandated by Indonesian law. Inthe instance o f intra-community collusion, fraud
and nepotism, cases will be reported and deliberated at the community meeting (Rembug
Warga) prior to their submission to the attorney general office. Experience in other C D D
projects indicates that many risks can be mitigated by the threat and use o f community-
based sanctions (such as those used under UPP 3).

D) Complaints Handling Mechanism. Complaint handling procedures, as currently
defined in the Keppres 80/2003, will be strictly followed by assigning authorized officials
to be responsible for maintaining a database of complaints and follow-up actions. This
program i s designed to encourage local complaint resolution through formal channels as
well as public pressure.      In some cases. local elites might misuse power and program
activities. For these cases, an alternative system has been established through a feedback



                                              40

    mechanism at the national-level. A special unit designated for handling o f complaints will
    be made available inthe NMC and OCs. The complaint-handling unit will investigate and
    facilitate the resolution o f complaints and problems. The database o f complaints, follow-
    up actions, and applied sanctions will be publicized to increase participants' involvement
    and likelihood to lodge protests. This mechanism also increases the social cost o f misuse o f
    funds. Complaints will be acteduponina professional and timely fashion, and without risk
    o f reprisal to `whistleblowers' inthe publiq. Wider access for community input i s provided
    through the establishment o f an address to mail complaints. This address will be posted to
    the kelurahan's signboards.

    E) Sanctions & Remedies Clear sanctions and remedies are important final steps in the
    effort to fight corruption. As already demonstrated inUPP 1 and 2, this program has a low
    tolerance for corruption. Communities are encouraged to impose reasonable sanctions on
    citizens who abuse the power that has been entrusted to them. There i s an increasing
    wealth o f anecdotal evidence suggesting that such sanctions can be more easily and
    effectively applied than protracted legal proceedings, especially in smaller cases o f
    Corruption. The project does not endorse vigilantism or extreme community sanctions, but
    in many cases the communities can reach amicable resolutions without resorting to the
    slow and over-burdened legal system (see box for example). That said, formal sanctions
    may also be applied.          For example, any official (government, non-government, etc.),
    community members, or private sector entity participating inthe project can be prosecuted
    if sufficient evidence is available. In all procurement contracts, evidence of corruption,
    collusion or nepotism will result in termination o f the relevant contract, with additional
    penalties potentially imposed (such as fines, blacklisting, etc.) inaccordance with Bank and
    Government regulations. Drawdown o f funds from the project special account to BKMs
    will be suspended in cases where significant misuse o f funds is suspected. At a larger
    scale, entire kota(s) may be excluded from participation in the subsequent phase if misuse
    o f funds i s widespread. Information regarding successful cases, where lessons are learned
    and funds are retrieved, will be widely disseminated.

    Box 1: Typical example of communityaction against corruption
    In one recent case, the community decided to hold a motorcycle, owned by the local treasurer, as collateral
    untilmissingfunds (Rp. 3 million, or $375) were accounted for andreturned. The treasurer was given a week
    to return the funds. This was far faster than entering into a legal battle that might well cost far more than the
    missing amount and take months to resolve.



CorruptionMappingMatrix

7.       Limiting the occurrence o f corruption in this project starts with identifying potential
risk areas - this is called corruption mapping. This corruption incentive mapping and
identification o f opportunities for corruption will be repeated at least every six months as the
project progresses and lessons are learned.




                                                        41

                                           Opportunitx                                MitigationAction
     Corruption        Levelof            for Corruption
   MappingArea          Risk

PROCUREMENT
Capacityof the Project MEDIUM    Non-independentjudgment of          Independentprofessionalsincludedas part of the
Manager and            (Central) the consultant evaluation           consultants'proposal evaluationteam.
Tender/Evaluation                process.The decisions tend to
Committee                        bias towards consultantsas          Capacitybuildingfor all actors involved in
                                 "instructed" by the higher level   procurement, includingcertificationof staff in
                                 officials or other parties.         accordancewith Keppres 8012003.

                                                                    Developmentofprojectmanagementmanualto
                                                                     streamline all proceduresand sanction/complaint
                                                                    handlingmechanisms.

Proposalevaluation     MEDIUM    Delay in evaluationprocess that     The procurement plan, with detailedtimeline, will be
                                 would benefitexclusive              bindingin the legal agreement, andwill set as the basis
                                 consultants                         for any procurement actions.

                                 Proposals are rejecteddue to        The Bank would declare misprocurementfor any
                                 reasons unrelated to the capacity   unjustifiedextension of validity of proposals.
                                 of consultants in carryingout of
                                 the contracts/services             QCBS procedures

                                 Significantlyhightechnical
                                 scores allocatedto the              The estimatedbudget for each contractpackagewill be
                                 "preferred" consultants, suchthat  basedon actual experience determinedthrough the
                                 no other consultants can           extensive survey of similarpackages that are currently
                                 effectivelybeat their proposals     underway inUPP 1 and 2.
                                 regardlessof the prices, which
                                 couldresultto significantlyhigh
                                 prices

                                 False informationaboutthe
                                 informationprovidedby the
                                 consultants

Award of Contract      MEDIUM    The committeemay call the           The TOR will bedesignedto be quite rigid.
                                 prospectivewinner and negotiate
                                 the contract amount                 Mandatorydisclosureof contractawards.

                                 Collusion andnepotismin
                                 awardingthe contract     -
Qualityof delivered    MEDIUM The delivered services are of         Involvement of civil society oversight and supervisory
services                         lower qualitythanthe ones           consultants (for example: NMC in the case of OC, and
                                 specifiedinthe TOR, andthe         EC in the case of NMC) in the inspection of the
                                 officials maytake kickback         deliveredservices.
                                 through the difference
                                                                    Enhancedcomplaint handlingmechanism.
                                 Significant changes ofkey staff
                                 o f consultants at the early stage hvolvementof communitygroups in monitoringthe
                                 of the assignment                  quality of the consultants'deliverables.

                                 Intentionallylow qualit; of        Enforcerewardpunishment systemas defined in
                                 supervisionof contracts, and       Keppres 8012003.
                                 kickbackfiom the consultants




                                                          42

                                               Opportunitg                             MitigationAction
      Corruption            Level of
                             Risk            for Corruption
   MappingArea
                            MEDIUM Risk ofkickback, and budget        Mandatoryreviewby the Bank ofprocurement
Procurement Planning,                markup                           planninganddisclosureofprocurement plan inpublic
includingsub-projects                                                 domain, includingdisclosingthe contractamount.


Overall Procurement         MEDIUM Risk ofkickback, collusive         Enhanced disclosure, complaint handling, and
                                     practicesto "award" the contract sanctions as defined inKeppres 8012003.
                                     to "preferred" consultants, and  Enhancedcapacity for the officials involvedin
                                     lower quality of services        procurement decision, includinghiring of consultants.

                                                                      Enhancedcontrol system(internal and external)
                                                                      includinginvolvementofprofessionalmembersof
                                                                      civil societyinthe procurementdecisionactions.

                                                                      Developmentof ProjectManuals.

                                                                      Tighten Bank supervision.

PROJECT             - ` .4a
                          `
MANAGEMENT
The final list of           MEDIUM Risk of insufficientcapacityof     The criteriaand performance indicatorsof Project
CPMU, PMUandPIU                      CPMU, PMUand PIU staff           Manager, Treasurer, planningstaff, procurementstaff,
staff with their (a)                                                  financial staff and monev. Staffof CPMU, PMUand
experiencesin                                                         PIU agreed by the Bankhavebeen incorporatedin the
handlingdonor                                                         PMMandwill beusedas the basisofthe annual
financing project and                                                 performancereview of the relevant staff.
(b) historyofproject
managementand or                                                      Requirementof POM as a guidelinefor project
treasury trainingtaken                                                implementation.

                                                                      Requirementof Government ProjectManagement,
                                                                      Treasury and POMtrainingfor CPMU, PMUand PIU
                                                                      staff.

                                                                      Annual Trainingagreed by the Bank on CPMU, PMU
                                                                      andPIUstaff.

Audit Report                MEDIUM Riskof unavailabilityof            The implementingagencywill (andthe Bank can)
Publication                          informationon the progressand    make final audit reportspublicly available, alongwith
                                     resultsofproject implementation  formal government response,promptlyafter receipt.
                                     (includingmisuse, collusionand
                                     nepotism, ifany).
Local Accountability        MEDIUM   Lack of local experiencemay      The project design includesoversightand supervision
Mechanisms                           result in communitiesmissing     to minimizerisks.
                                     cases of abuse.
                                                                      BKMs will meet regularlyto make collective decisions
                                                                      on strategic issues, andto review the UPK's accounts
                                                                      regardingthe use of funds. The BKM will also hold
                                                                      annualmeetingswith the general communityto
                                                                      account for its activities duringthe year.

                                                                      BKM finances will be auditedeach year by local
                                                                      accountants. Audit resultswill be reportedto the
                                                                      communityat the end-of-yearBKM accountability
                                                                      meeting. Ideally,each BKM shouldbevisitedat least
                                                                      twice per annumby the NMC.

                                                                      Inorder to enhance the quality of consultants'



                                                             43

                                          Opportunity                               Mitigation Action
     Corruption        Level of         for Corruption
   MappingArea          Risk

                                                                 supervisionunder the project, facilitators are required
                                                                 to regularly check the BKM and UPK books. They
                                                                 will also needto sign and file a "representation
                                                                 statement" regularly, confirming that they have
                                                                 checkedthe books and found them satisfactory. The
                                                                 OCs at higher level would randomly check the
                                                                 facilitators' statementsand will also be requiredto
                                                                 sign and file similar representation statements. A
                                                                 mechanism for checkingand applying sanctions will
                                                                 bedeveloped for those filing false statements
                                                                 (sanctions may includejob separation).


Limited dissemination   LOW     Informationis kept limited to    Socializationwill be carried out through meetings,
of informationrelated           certain circulation or group of  workshops and focus group discussions at the
to the Program                  peopleonly suchthat non-         kelurahan, kecamatan,kota and provinciallevels. It
                                qualifiedproposalscould be       will also include acampaign throughnewspaper spots
                                expected                         andradio programs. The socialization strategy is
                                                                 geared towards making communitiesaware of the
                                                                 project's goals, and its rules andregulations. These
                                                                 are aimedto ensure that stakeholdersknow what their
                                                                 respective roles and responsibilitiesare, and how to
                                                                 hold each other accountable for their actions.
Selection of BKM        LOW     Non-transparent process of BKM   The selection processof BKMmemberswill be
members                         membersselection resulting in    conducted throughatransparent and fair election
                                low integrity                    process, with significant participation from the
                                                                 members of the community.
Channelingof funds    MEDIUM    Kickbacks for government         UPP-PNPM funds go directly to communities, Le. to
                                officials                        the BKM account. &e        the beneficiariesfulfill the
                                                                 drawdown conditions, following arequest from the
                                                                 PJOK (after verificationby the Oversight
                                                                 Consultants), the funds are remitted from the Special
                                                                 Account within afew days.

                                                                 The procedures, size and criteriafor defininggrants,
                                                                 eligibility criteria for beneficiaries,and conditions for
                                                                 drawdown are all simplified and definedupfront to
                                                                 ensureeasy understanding for stakeholders. For the
                                                                 Kelurahan Grants, conditions for drawdown of funds
                                                                 to BKMare linked to performancerather than inputs,
                                                                 with the first drawdown of 20% based on satisfactory
                                                                 completion of the BKM's Community Development
                                                                 Plan; the second 50% based on indicatorsof
                                                                 satisfactoryutilization of funds and financial
                                                                 management, and the third 30% basedon indicatorsof
                                                                BKMsustainability. Since communitiesknowhow
                                                                 much they shouldbereceiving, it should beharder for
                                                                 officials to engage inrent seekingbehavior.

[mplementationof the  MEDIUM Misuseoffunds by the BKMand        KSMSare requiredto prepareand submit reportson
sub-project                     KSM                              progressandtheir use of project funds to the BKMs.
investments
                                                                 All financial information is madepublic and displayed
                                                                 inthe kelurahans. Minutesofmeetings, BKMs'
                                                                 monthly financial status, and names and amounts for
                                                                 funded proposals are posted on signboards that are
                                                                 displayedaround the kelurahan.Discretion of actors is
                                                                 limited by settingrules that all financial transactions



                                                        .44

                           Opportunity                      Mitigation Action
Corruption    Level of
               Risk       for Corruption
Mapping Area
                                           require at leastthree signatures, two from the elected
                                           BKMmembersandone fromtheproject's OC. For
                                           purchasesabove Rp.15 million each, the project
                                           requires the BKMto conducta limitedbid whereby
                                           quotationsmust bereadout inpublic. For smaller
                                           purchases,local shoppingmust be carriedout by two
                                           personsseekingquotations from local suppliers.

                                           BKM finances will be auditedeach year by local
                                           accountants. Audit resultswill bereportedto the
                                           community at the end-of-yearBKMaccountability
                                           meeting.




                                      45

               Annex 7: TechnicalandOperationalIssues and Actions

                      .  .    .;                   Recommendations '.
PNPMfinancing       Submit to the Bank a formal requestfor financing.
strategy            Providepolicy direction delineatingthe Government'svision for the PNPM.
Capacityof MPW      Hireadditionalcontract managers (PPK) under the Project ManagementUnit
                                PMU)
                    Establisha budgetingunit (satker) ineach province
                    Placement of additionalgovernment staff within the PMU
                    Increase the number ofproject managementconsultants
Project             Completethe addendumoutlining modificationsof POM from UPP 2 for the
Operational                     PNPM
Manual              Print versions of the amended POM ready for distribution
Strategy for        Extendexisting UPP conhltants' contracts (boththe NMC and the OCs) to cover
Mobilizing          2007 PNPM work
Facilitatorsand     Conduct a new selectionprocess for the (ECs)
Consultants
CapacityBuilding    Completerevisionsto the training modules
                    Preparethe community socializationkits
LocalGovernment     Issue a letter onUPP requirements to all local governments
Procurement         Justificationfor Single Source Selection for managementservices consultants,
                     consistent with paragraph3.10 ofthe Bank Consultant Guidelines(including the
                     TOR, detailedamount, and the assessment of the proposedconsultant firms'
                     capacityand performance)
Financial            Revise the POM for the additional financing
Management and       Recruitadditional consultants, including FM consultants
Disbursement         Training and socializationfor field consultants and local government
                     DraftMOUbetweenthe PMU and CommercialBank on bankingservices
                     arrangement to channel the block grant to BKMs
                     Draft MOUbetweenthe PMUand a CommercialBankonbankingservices
                     arrangementto channel the hnds for facilitators/ individual consultants salaries
                     Draft DG Treasury's circular letter on disbursementmechanism
                     DG-CK's letter to the prospectivebanks (where BKMs may open their
                     accounts) requestingthem to alert their brancheswith regardto project
                     governance e.g. BKMbank accounts mustbe under the name of the BKV and
                     cannot be individual accounts; the requirementof havingthe BKMaccounts
                     signedby three persons.
RevolvingFunds       Conductin-depthanalysis onthe status of revolving funds
Monitoring           Improve capacityofthe team of MIS, website, and complaintsmanagement
                     working for the UPP/PhTM at the national level
                     Improve training modules, applications,SOPS(standard operatingprocedures)
                            ofMIS, complaintsmanagement, as well as website for consultants,
                            facilitators, and local government
                     DevelopSOP for data verification procedure and utilization at all levels
                                (facilitator team, city coordinator, OC, and NMC as well as BKMand
                                Local Government)
                     Ensure that the MIS and complaintsmanagementapplicationsaddress the
                     additionaldata and includeperformance indicators for the PhTM
                     Developguidelines for MIS audit to cover a minimum of 30/0during each
                   project cycle to ensure data accuracy, validity, and timely reporting
                     Developguidelines for iimely and systematic randomchecks and increase
                     percentage of kelurahans to be checkedby the h N C
                     Improve the PMU's capacityto manage the project MIS, complainthandling,



                                                46

                         and website
Impact Evaluation        Conduct the final phase o f data collection for impact evaluation
                         Complete the midterm impact evaluation
                         Establisha research and development unit, hire independent ECs and mobilize
                         NGOs andor individualconsultants to conduct research on the effectiveness o f
                         the additional financing
Disaster                 Deliver the training module on community-baseddisaster management during a
Management at the        training o f trainers (TOT)
Community Level          Roll out training program for UPP facilitators inareas covered by the additional
                         financing and scale up to existing UPP 2 and UPP 3 areas
                         Review open menu list for block grants and ensure disaster management
                         investments are eligible for inclusion inthe CDP
                         Incorporate community based disaster management into the P O M
Mobilization of   Extend UPP consultant contracts
consultants
RevolvingFunds    In-deDth analvsis on the status o frevolving funds
Training                 Strengthen training specialist with staff and form a training unit at the N M C
                         Revise training modules for facilitator training to include; women participation,
                   participatory monitoring and evaluation, web based informationmgmnt, complaint
                   handling, disaster mitigation.

                     --  Develop & produce:
                         training kit
                         refresher training modules for existing NMC and OC staff

                     --  Mobilization of:
                         training specialists at OC level
                         new facilitators intwo stages
                         Expertgroup meeting among OC training specialists to discuss modified
                     training modules for facilitator

                     ----Conduct training for:
                         existing trainers (refresher training - 100prs)
                         new N M C & OC staff
                         new facilitators
                         local government
Socialization            NationalLaunching o f the PNPM
                         Firsttalk show prior to launching o fthe PNPM followed by others socialization
                         activities through electronic, printedmedia and other activities

                     -- at
                         Conduct orientation workshops
                         at the central level
                            the provincial and kotdkab level-kecamatan level
                         Draft MOUfor collaboration betweenUPP and KDP for socialization at
                         national level using printed, electronic media (TV, Radio, others), and others
                         activities
                         Draft M O Uwith National TV stations
                         Broadcast inPSA, talk-show, and ad clips on PNMP inelectronic media:
                     --provincialkotdkabupaten
                         at national level (collaboration withKDP)
                                                     level
                         Produce & disseminate socializationkits & all printed media, including
                         guidelines & VCDs for all stakeholders
                         Hyperlink UPP website with other CDDprojects.
                         Mobilize socialization specialists at the NMC and OC levels
                         Conduct a group meeting for experts with all OC socialization specialists
                         Coach all facilitators on socialization activities (advanced facilitation skills, use
                     o f various medias at the community level, development o f community media) at
                     oc


                                                   47

                                          Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                          Indonesia: SecondUrbanPovertyProject

                                                                                                                    ~~

                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                      expectedand actual
                                                               OriginalAmount in US$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID  FY  Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel Undisb       Orig.      Frm Rev'd
PO79906    2007 ID-STRATEGIC ROADS INFRA                   208.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00 208.00          0.00        0.00
PO83742    2007 ID-Farmer Empower.Agric.Tech.&Info           32.80     60.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   92.34         0.00        0.00
PO89479    2006 ID-Early Childhood Educationand Dev           0.00     67.50      0.00      0.00   0.00   69.88         0.00        0.00
PO85375    2006 ID-WSSLIC III(co-TTL=Claudia Rokx)            0.00    137.50      0.00      0.00   0.00  138.32         2.00        0.00
PO77175    2006 ID-Domestic Gas Market Development           80.00  .   0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   73.32         6.65        0.00
                Proj.
PO76174    2005 ID-Initiatives for Local Govern. Reform      14.50     15.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   38.03        12.33        0.00
PO78070    2005 Support for Poorand Disadvantaged            69.00     35.OO      0.00      0.00   0.00  101.58        11.36        0.00
                Areas
PO84583    2005 ID-WP3                                       67.30     71.40      0.00      0.00   0.00   94.51       -18.34        0.00
PO71296    2005 ID-USDRP                                     45.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   42.76         0.26        0.00
PO85133    2005 Govt Fin1Mgt & RevenueAdmin Project          55.00      5.oo      0.00      0.00   0.00   55.06        17.14        0.00
PO85374    2005 ID-HIGHEREDUCATION                           50.00     30.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   75.63        14.48        0.00
PO92019    2005 KecamatanDevelopmentProject 3B               80.00     80.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   88.85        32.70        0.00
PO84860    2004 ID-PCF-Indocement Cement                      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   10.73        0.00         0.00
PO74290    2004 ID-E. IND REG TRANSPT 2                    200.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   1.00 169.16         94.83        0.00
PO64728    2004 ID-LAND MANAGEMENT &POLICY                   32.80     32.80      0.00      0.00   0.16   44.43         6.28        0.00
                DEVT PROJECT
PO71316    2004 ID- Coral ReefRehab and Mgmt ProgII 33.20              23.00      0.00      0.00   0.17   44.35         8.41        0.00
PO71318    2004 ID- Coral ReefRehaband ManagementI1           0.00      0.00      0.00      7.50   0.00    6.89         2.22        0.00
PO59931    2003 ID-Water Resources & 1rr.SectorMgt           45.00     25.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   64.51        55.22        8.77
                Prog
PO63913    2003 ID-Java-Bali Pwr Sector& Strength          141.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00 115.51         96.75         1.01
PO73772    2003 ID-HealthWorkforce & Services (PHP 3)        31.10     74.50      0.00      0.00   0.00   79.87        53.26        0.00
PO76271    2003 ID-PPITA                                     17.10      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.52        4.52        -0.01
PO79156    2003 IDThird KecamatanDevelopmentProject        204.30      45.50      0.00      0.00   0.00   13.46        -0.78        0.00
PO73970    2002 ID-GLOBAL DEV LEARNING (LIL)                  2.66      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    1.30         1.30        0.00
PO72852    2002 ID-UPP2                                      29.50     70.50      0.00      0.00   0.00   23.33         1.45        0.00
PO73025    2001 ID-SECONDKECAMATAN                         208.90     111.30      0.00      0.00   0.00   16.85        2.18         0.00
                DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
PO49539    2001 ID-PROVTNCIALHEALTH I1                       63.20     40.00      0.00      0.00  32.00    6.54        32.27        0.00
PO59477    2000 ID-WSSLIC I1(co-TTL=Claudia Rob)              0.00     77.40      0.00      0.00   0.00   26.08        19.89        0.00
PO49545    2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                        0.00     38.00      0.00      0.00   3.17    8.86         9.53        9.53
                                                    Total: 1,710.36  1,039.40     0.00      7.50  36.50 1,714.67 465.91            19.30




                                                                    48

                                          INDONESIA
                                     STATEMENT OF FC's
                                   Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                     InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                            Committed                      Disbursed
                                           IFC                           IFC
FY Approval Company              Loan     Equity  Quasi  Partic. Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic

2006        BankDanamon          155.00     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        BonaVistaSchool      1.oo       0.00   0.00   0.00     1.oo   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        BuanaBank            5.00       0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        Centralpertiwi       45.00      0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        MedanNP School       1.75       0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002        P.T. Gawi            11.05      0.00   0.00   3.49     4.90   0.00     0.00   3.49
1989        PT Agro Muko         0.00       2.20   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.20     0.00   0.00
1997        PT Alumindo          2.73       0.00   0.00   0.00     2.73   0.00     0.00   0.00
1989        PT Astra             0.00       0.20   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.20     0.00   0.00
1994        PT Astra             0.00       0.19   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.19     0.00   0.00
2003        PT Astra             0.00       0.12   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.12     0.00   0.00
            PT Astra Otopart     0.00       0.70   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.70     0.00   0.00
2005        PT Astra Otopart     24.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    24.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000        PT BankNISP          0.00       2.85   2.86   0.00     0.00   2.85     2.83   0.00
2002        PT BankNISP          0.00       2.04   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.04     0.00   0.00
2004        PT Bank NISP         35.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    35.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997        PT Berlian           0.00       3.3s   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1993        PT Bina Danatama     0.05       0.00   0.00   0.00     0.05   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996        PT Bina Danatama     0.00       0.00   2.58   4.81     0.00   0.00     2.58   4.81
2004        PT Ecogreen          30.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    30.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        PT Ecogreen          25.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    20.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
            PT Grahawita         0.00       0.00   3.75   0.00     0.00   0.00     3.75   0.00
1991        PT Indo-Rama         0.00       3.82   0.00   0.00     0.00   3.82     0.00   0.00
1995        PT Indo-Rama         0.00       1.57   0.00   0.00     0.00   1.57     0.00   0.00
1999        PT Indo-Rama         0.00       0.81   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.81     0.00   0.00
2001        PT Indo-Rama         20.00      0.00   0.00   0.00     0.33   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        PT Indo-Rama         48.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    41.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
I992        PT KIA Keramik       0.23       0.00   0.00   2.00     0.23   0.00     0.00   2.00
1996        PT KIA Keramik       1.65       0.00   0.00  53.49     1.65   0.00     0.00  53.49
1995        PT KIA Serpih        4.50       0.00   0.00  49.50     4.50   0.00     0.00  49.50
1997        PT Kalimantan        9.38       0.00   0.00   0.00     9.38   0.00     0.00   0.00
            PT Karunia( U S )    16.45      0.00   0.00   3.56    16.45   0.00     0.00   3.56
2006        PT Karunia(KAS)      20.00      0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
            PT Makro             0.00       2.34   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.34     0.00   0.00
2000        PT Makro             0.00       1.21   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.71     0.00   0.00
2006        PT Mako              0.00       0.66   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.66     0.00   0.00
1998        PT Megaplast         0.00       2.50   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.50     0.00   0.00




                                                49

1993    PT Nusantara                  0.00           0.00        10.16    7.90     0.00    0.00      10.16   7.90
2004    PT Prakars (PAS)              15.36          0.00         0.00    3.20    15.36    0.00       0.00   3.20
1997    PT Sayap                      0.83           0.00         0.00    0.00     0.83    0.00       0.00   0.00
2001    PT Sigma                      0.00           1.03         0.00    0.00     0.00    1.03       0.00   0.00
2006    PT TAS                        7.00           0.00         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
1995    PT Viscose                    7.81           0.00         0.00    0.00     7.81    0.00       0.00   0.00
2004    PT Viscose                    8.31           0.00         0.00    0.00     8.31    0.00       0.00   0.00
1997    PT Wings                      0.72           0.00         0.00    0.00     0.72    0.00       0.00   0.00
2001    Sunson                        11.62          0.00         0.00    7.35    11.62    0.00       0.00   7.35
2005    WOM                           0.00          15.82         0.00    0.00     0.00   15.74       0.00   0.00
2006    WOM                           20.00          0.00         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
2004    Wilmar                        33.33          0.00         0.00    0.00    33.33    0.00       0.00   0.00

                    Total portfolio:   560.77       41.41        19.35   135.30  269.20   37.48      19.32  135.30




                                                                    ApprovalsPendingCommitment
        FY Approval      Company                                Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic.
        2005             BankNISP SELF                        0.03        0.00       0.00     0.00
        2006             BankNISP Swap                        0.00        0.00       0.00     0.00
        2006             Orix Indonesia                       0.08        0.00       0.00     0.00
                                            ~~~~~      ~~    ~

                               Total pending commitment:         0.11     0.00       0.00     0.00




                                                         50

                                               Annex 9: Country at a Glance
                                     INDONESIA: Second Urban PovertyProject
                                                                 East    Lower-                                                               I
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia & rnlddle-
                                                    Indonesia  Pacific   Income           3evelopment diamond'
                                                                                                                                              I
 2005
 Population,mid-year(mllllons)                           220.6     1,885    2,475
 GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                                                                       Lifeexpectancy
                                                         1280      1,627     1,918
 GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                         282.3    3,067     4,747
Average annual growth, 1998.05                                                                                T
 Population (%)                                            1.3       0.g       10
 Laborforce (sld                                           1.9       13        14                                                       Gross
                                                                                          El                                           primary
 M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1999.05)                                 capita                                    enrollment
 Poverty (%of populationbelownatlonalPOverfyline)          27
 Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                      48        41        50
                                                                                                                                              II
 Life expectancyat birth(pars)                             67        70        70
 infantmortality(per lOOOllveblrfhs)                       30        29        33
 Chiidmalnutrition (%ofchlldrenunder5)                     28         25        P             Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)          77        79        82
 Literacy(%ofpopulation age #+J                            90        91        89
Gross primaryenroliment (%of school-age population)        ll7     ,116        l l 4       -----Indonesia
   Male                                                    118       18        115         __ Lower-middle-incomewouD
   Female                                                  115       114       10

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1985     1995     2004      2005
GDP (US$ billions)                               87.3    202.1    254.3     287.2
Gross capital formation/GDP                      28.0     3t9      23.1      23.4
Exports of goods and ServicesiGDP                22.2    26.3      31.3      37.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                       29.7    30.6      25.8      32.5
Gross national savings1GDP                       24.6     28.1     22.8      29.8
Current account balancelGDP                      -2.2     -3.2       12       0.9
InterestpaymentslGDP                              2.3     2.4      '16
TotaldebtlGDP                                    42.0     615      55.3
Totaldebt servicelexports                        28.6    29.9      22.1
Present valueof debt1GDP                                           53.6
Present valueof debtlexports                                       117.0
                                                                                                         Indebtedness
                                    1985.95 1995-05     2004     2005 2005-09
(averageannualgroMh)
GDP                                      7.7      2.2      5.1      5.6       6.3           -Indonesia
GDP percapita                            5.9      0.8     3.6       4.2       5.2
Exportsof goods andservices              9.3      2.5     8.5      11.5       w.0


STRUCTURE Of the ECONOMY
                                               1985     1995     2004      2005       I.*:
(%ofGDP)                                                                                Growth of capital and GDP (YO)

Agriculture                                      23.2     l7,l     16.6       14.0       POT


Industry                                         35.8     41.8     44.3     40.7         20
  Manufacturing                                  18.0     24.1     28.7
Services                                        40.9      411      414      45.3
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure            59.1     61.6     64.6     63.9
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure        112      7.8       8.3       7.5
imports of goods and services                   20.4     27.6      27.3     32.6                    -GCF            -GDP                 -
                                            1985-95 1995-05      2004      2005
(averageannualgroMh)                                                                 /Growtho f exports and Imports (Oh)                      1
Agriculture                                      3.4      2.5        4.1      2.8
industry                                         9.7       2.1      3.9       6.0
  Manufacturing                                  112      3.0       6.2
Services                                         7.9       2.1      7.0       6.7
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure            6.5      3.2       4.3       2.7
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure        4.6      3.2        1.9      4.1
Gross capital formation                          110      -3.1     30.6      w.5
imports of goods andservices                     8.5       0.1     24.9       15.1               -Exports         - 0 - l n l I O r i S



Note:2005 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database.
'Thediamonds showfour keyindicatorsinthe country(inbold)comparedw?h its income-groupaverage. If dataaremissing,thediamondwili
  be incomplete.
                                                                    51

                                                                                                                         Indonesia

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                1985       1995    2004     2005
Domestlc prkes                                                                         Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                          125                                               I
Consumerprices                                   4.7        9.4      6.2     10.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                             4.3        9.7      6.3     13.7
Government finance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                   19.8       15.6    17.6     17.9               W      01     02      03       04
Currentbudgetbalance                             -2.3       7.8    .                  1
                                                                     -1.o
                                                                      7.4     5.0
Overaiisurpiusldeficit                           -1.0        1.9              -1.o               -'--GDPdeflator      -CPI


TRADE
                                                1985       1995     2004    2005
(US$ mllions)
Total exports(fob)                            18,527     45,418   71,585   88,845
 Fuel                                                    10,465   15,803  20,195
 Estatecrop                                         ....  2,916    2.845    1,141
 Manufactures                                       ..   18,312   22,063  27,011
Total imports(cif)                            10,259     40,629   45.425  62,195
  Food                                              ....
                                                    ..    3,022    3,786    3,863
  Fueland energy                                          3,007   11,797   14,521
 Capital goods                                           16,290   12,175   16,536
Exportpriceindex(2000=100)                                   24      101      102               99   W     01    02    03

Importprice index (2000=100)                                 26      109      113                    Expcrts         Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                           ....     95       93       90

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                1985       1995    2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                         Current account balanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services                  19,371     52,923   69,763  108,239
Importsof goodsand services                   17,840     54,461   79,116  93,521       7
Resourcebalance                                1,531     -1,538   10,667   14,718
Net income                                    -3,542     -5,874   -8,704  -13,058
Netcurrenttransfers                               86        981    1,139    1,031
Currentaccountbalance                         -1,923     -6,431    3,103    2.691
Financingitems (net)                           2,433      6,004   -3,079   11,320
Changesin net reserves                          -510     -1,573      -24  -14,011   I       98   W     01     02    03     04     05

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)           5,680     14,787   36,194  47,088
Conversionrate (DEC. local/US$)               1,110.6    2,248.6 6,938.9  9.504.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                I985       1995    2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 2004 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed           36,715 124,396     140,649
  IBRD                                         3,590     12,503    8.943    8,132                           A 8,943
  IDA                                            844        756      996    1,001              r. 745nn             B 996

Total debt service                             5,823     16,416   20,464
  IBRD                                           364      1,875    1.938    1,871
  IDA                                             12         26       35       36

Compositionof net resoulceflows
  Officialgrants                                 137        250      290
  Officialcreditors                              980      1,129   -2,667
  Privatecreditors                               154      2,303     -947
  Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)          310      4,346    1,023
  Portfolioequity (net inflows)                    0      1,493    2,129
World Bank program
  Commitments                                  1,068      1,312    * 773               A IBRD                            E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                  777      1,045      659      652      B IDA
                                                                                         -.        D Other mltilateral
                                                                                                     .                   F Private
                                                                                                                              ~
  Principalrepayments                            133        975    1,390    1,417      C IMF
                                                                                           ~                             G- Short-tern
  Netflows                                       644         69     -731    -765
  interestpayments                               262        926     584       489
  Nettransfers                                   382       -657   -1,314   -1.254

Note: This tablewas produced from the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.                                                        8/13/06




                                                                    52

                                                                                                                                                                              120

                      MYANMAR                                             CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                                      INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P A C I F I C
                                                                                               VIETNAM                                                                                                                                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR
            Andaman                                                                                                                                                                 PHILIPPINES                                               SECOND URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O C E A N
                   Sea                                       Gulf of                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT TARGET PROVINCES
                                                            Thailand                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS

                                      THAILAND                                                                                                                                  Sulu                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                Sea                                                                                  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              Banda Aceh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        L      A          Y
                            1                                                  A                                      S                BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                 I                                                                                                                                           0     200    400    600 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Talaud
                                              Medan                    M                                                                                                             Celebes
                                                                                             Natuna                                                                                                                  Is.
                                                                                             Besar                                         A                       Tarakan                                                                                                   0    100  200   300  400 Miles
                             Pematangsiantar                                                                                                                                             Sea
                                                                                         Anambas                                                                                                                                  Morotai
                 Simeulue                                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                                                             19
                                                 2
                                                                                SINGAPORE                                                                23                                  Manado
                             Nias
                                                                  Pekanbaru        Tanjungpinang
                                                                                                                                                                                       25                    Ternate              Halmahera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       135
          0                                                       3                          Pontianak                                                                         26          Gorontalo                                            Waigeo
                                                                                    Lingga                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                      20         K A L I M A N T A N             Samarinda                                                                                  Manokwari         Biak
                                         Mentawai
                                             Padang                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                               Palu                                                                    Sorong
                                             Siberut         4           5     Jambi                                                                           Balikpapan                       Peleng                        Obi
                                                                                          Bangka                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Misool                 Yapen
                                                              S U M A T E R A             Pangkalpinang                    Palangkaraya                                      SULAWESI                 Sula Is.                                             32                               Jayapura
                                                                                                                                                               Mamuju
                                                  Is.                                        9                                                                                                                                    Ceram                     Fakfak
                                                                    6              Palembang         Belitung                                          22               27                                                                 Amahai
                                                                                   7                                             Bandjarmasin                                 28    29     Kendari             Buru                                                           33
                                                          Bengkulu                                                                                                    Parepare                                     Ambon
               I N D I A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Timika
                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                 J    a    v    a     S    e    a               Makassar                      Muna                                                            Kai
                O C E A N                                    Enggano          Bandar      11                                                                                                Baubau                       B   a   n     d   a                  Is.
                                                                             Lampung                                                                                                                                                          31
                                                                                              JAKARTA                                                                                                                         S   e   a
                                                                                  Serang                                                        I   N       D         O         N        E      S         I       A                                               Aru                                        GUINEA
                                                                                        Bogor 12Bandung
                                                                                                    Cirebon                                                                                                                                                       Is.
                                                                                                             Semarang                  Madura                                                                                                                                                           APUAP
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.          10
                                                                                                  Cilacap  13              JAWA                                                                               Wetar
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                           Surakarta                       Surabaya  16                                                                                    Babar        Tanimbar
           on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                     Yogyakarta                Malang     15                Lombok Sumbawa                             Alor                 Moa                               Is.                                                     NEW
           judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                      Bali                 Raba     Flores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Merauke
           acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                Denpasar Mataram                       Ende
                                                                                                                                                              17                18                             TIMOR-LESTE
              PROVINCES:                                                                                                                                                WaingapuSumba                 Timor                                                Arafura Sea
              1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                            12 JAWA BARAT                       23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                                     Kupang
              2 SUMATERA UTARA                                      13 JAWA TENGAH                      24 SULAWESI UTARA
              3 RIAU                                                14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA                  25 GORONTALO
              4 SUMATERA BARAT                                      15 JAWA TIMUR                       26 SULAWESI TENGAH
              5 JAMBI                                               16 BALI                             27 SULAWESI BARAT                                           INDONESIA
              6 BENGKULU                                            17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT              28 SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                                                                                                           Gulf of
              7 SUMATERA SELATAN                                    18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR              29 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                                                                                       Carpentaria                           IBRD
APRIL     15 8   LAMPUNG                                           19 RIAU KEPULAUAN                   30 MALUKU UTARA
              9 BANGKA-BELITUNG                                     20 KALIMANTAN BARAT                 31 MALUKU                                                                                                                                                                                                            31828R
     2007   10 BANTEN                                               21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                32 IRIAN JAYA BARAT
            11 D.K.I. JAKARTA                                       22 KALIMANTAN SELATAN               33 PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)                                                                                                                A U S T R A L I A
                                                                                  105                                                                                        120

