Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3658 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Poverty Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 20, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3658 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
Page  2
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is making a loan to the Borrower in the amount of twenty nine million five 
hundred thousand Dollars ($29,500,000) (the Loan); and
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in 
respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan 
Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
 “BAPPEDA” means the Provincial, Kabupaten and Kota Development Planning 
Agency established and operating within a Province, Kabupaten and Kota, respectively;
(b)
“BKM” means 
Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat
, a Kelurahan level organization 
with elected members, legally empowered by registering as an association to act on behalf of the 
Kelurahan community to take actions aimed at reducing poverty in the Project Kelurahan;
(c)
“BKM Forum” means a forum of BKM representatives at the Kecamatan and 
Kota level for the exchange of experience and collective actions relating to poverty alleviation; 
(d)
“Camat” means the head of a Kecamatan;
(e)
“Community Development Plan” means the three-year investment plan prepared 
by the BKM, in accordance with the procedures and criteria set out in the Project Manual, for 
poverty alleviation activities in the Project Kelurahan;
(f)
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  Part A 
of  the  Project, has or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, 
title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any 
other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
Page  3
(g)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31;
(k)
 “Grantee” and “Grantees” mean a person or persons, respectively, responsible 
for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Parts B.1, B.3 and C of the Project;
(l)
“Highly Vulnerable Groups” means groups of peoples, including widows, the 
elderly and the disabled,  having special poverty alleviation needs and to be addressed in the 
Community Development Plan; 
(m)
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a 
distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the 
development process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(n)
“Isolated Vulnerable People Development Plan” means a development plan 
prepared by a Project Province pursuant to the provisions of the Framework for the Treatment of 
Isolated Vulnerable People set out in the Project Manual, and acceptable to the Association, to 
mitigate any social or cultural impact of the Project on Isolated Vulnerable People, and 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Kelurahan” and “Desa” mean an urban section of a Kecamatan;
(p)
 “Kelurahan-borrower” and “Kelurahan-borrowers” mean a person and persons, 
respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the Project; 
(q)
“Kelurahan Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees for a 
Sub-project under Part B.1 and B.3 of the Project;
(r)
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan, acceptable to the Association, prepared and implemented by a BKM or 
a Project Kabupaten or Project Kota, pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework and paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy 
Framework set out in the Borrower’s letter to the Association of even date with this Agreement 
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to  Displaced 
Persons;
(t)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Page  4
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement;
(u)
“Lurah” means the head of a Kelurahan;
(v)
“National Management Consultants” means the team of consultants within the 
Project Management Unit at the central level to assist in Project implementation and monitoring;
(w)
“Oversight Consultants” means the team of consultants and facilitators at the 
provincial and district level to assist Project Kotas, Project Kabupatens and Project Kelurahans 
with Project implementation and monitoring;
(x)
“PJOK” means a Project manager at the Kecamatan level;
 
(y)
“PJOK PAPG” means a Project manager at the Kota and Kabupaten level;
(z)
“Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Loan to a Grantee or Grantees for a Sub-project under Part C of the Project;
(aa)
“Project Kabupaten” means a regional autonomous district within a province of 
the Borrower, participating in the Project;
(bb)
 “Project Kecamatan” means an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten and a 
Kota, participating in the Project; 
(cc)
“Project Kelurahan” means a Kelurahan in the urban areas of the Project 
Provinces, participating in the Project;
(dd)
“Project Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division within a 
province of the Borrower, participating in the Project;
(ee)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure;
(ff)
“Project Manual” means the Project Manual to assist the Borrower, including 
central government ministries, the PMU, Project Provinces, Project Kotas,  Project Kabupatens, 
Project Kecamatans and Project Kelurahans, and BKMs in the implementation of the Project 
through the description of, among others, procurement procedures and standard documentation as 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, reporting requirements as set forth in Article 4 of this 
Agreement, the Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework as set forth in the supplemental letter of 
even date with this Agreement, the Framework for the Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People, 
environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be 
carried out under a Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects as set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Project Manual may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association;
Page  5
(gg)
“Project Provinces” mean the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, Jawa Barat, Jawa 
Tengah, Jawa Timur, Nusa Tenggara Barat,  Kalimantan Barat, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan 
Selatan, Sulawesi Utara, Gorontalo, Sulawesi Tengah, Sulawesi Selatan, and Sulawesi Tenggara;
(hh)
“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(ii)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(jj)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made to a Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers 
for a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the Project out of funds made available by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan and out of its own funds;
(kk)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project, social services 
project, income-generating investment project or social welfare project carried out under Parts B 
and C of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant or a Sub-loan;
(ll)
“Sub-project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into among the relevant (i) Grantee or Grantees, BKM, and PJOK for purposes of implementing 
the activities under a Sub-project under Parts B.1, B.3 and C of the Project; and (ii) 
Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers, BKM and PJOK for purposes of implementing the 
activities under a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the Project; and
            (mm) 
“UPK” means 
Unit Pengelola Keuangan
, the financial management unit 
responsible for the management of funds for the BKM.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to fifty five million seven hundred thirteen thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,713,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement : (i) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Grant or a Sub-loan made 
under Parts B and C of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and D of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
Page  6
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-annually 
on February 15 and August 15, in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and 
August 15, commencing August 15, 2012 and ending February 15, 2037 Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 15, 2022 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet 
due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
Page  7
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and 
financial practices, and sound environmental and social standards, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
Page  8
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) 
of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of FMRs, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(ii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
FMRs submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
Page  9
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Project Management Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
that the Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been issued;
(c)
that the Borrower has prepared materials required to carry out poverty 
awareness, acceptable to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and
(d)
that the Borrower has prepared training materials, acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Jakarta, 
Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  11
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
dollars
)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)  Kelurahan Grants 
and Sub-loans 
40,461,000
-0-
100% of Grant 
or
Sub-loan 
amount
disbursed
(2)  Poverty Alleviation
      Partnership Grants
-0-
17,200,000
100% of Grant
amount 
disbursed
(3)  Consultants’ services
      under Parts A and D
      of the Project
15,252,000
6,200,000
100%
(4)  Fee
- - -
295,000
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04 of the 
Loan 
Agreement
(5)  Unallocated
-0-
5,805,000
TOTAL
___________
55,713,000
__________
29,500,000
==========
=========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) a 
Grant or a Sub-loan under Categories (1) and (2) unless a Sub-project Implementation Agreement 
has been entered into in accordance with the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Bank 
Indonesia or in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate 
Page  12
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Except as the Association may otherwise 
specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For 
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time 
as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has received 
evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the 
Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be supported by a 
FMR.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the FMR accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $16,400,000.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any FMR does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of FMRs.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Page  13
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower: (i) establish or support 
representative, responsive and accountable community organizations that are able to provide 
services to the urban poor and increase the voice of the poor in local decision making; (ii) make 
local government more responsive to the needs of the poor through increased cooperation with 
community organizations; and (iii) improve services for the urban poor (financial services, social 
services and infrastructure).
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: 
Community Development and Local Government Capacity Building
1.
Carrying out of poverty awareness-raising activities in Project Kelurahans, including 
national level public campaigns, Kelurahan level workshops, and training of community 
volunteers, to encourage communities (i) to discuss the nature of poverty in the Project 
Kelurahan and methods to address poverty, and (ii) to carry out community self-surveys. 
2.
Establishment of BKMs and strengthening of existing BKMs.
3. 
Preparation of a Community Development Plan by the BKM in each Project Kelurahan, 
on the basis of the community self-survey and provision of technical assistance.
4.
Carrying out of: (a) poverty awareness-raising training for Project Kelurahan cadres and 
other relevant stakeholders; (b) leadership training for BKM and Kelurahan cadres; (c) Project 
cycle training for community groups, BKM members, UPK, PJOK, and Kelurahan cadres; and 
(d) training in specific skills required for Project implementation for relevant community groups, 
BKM members, UPK, PJOK, Kelurahan cadres and facilitators.
Page  14
5.
Provision of technical assistance to BKMs for the establishment of BKM Forums and 
provision of technical assistance and training to BKM Forums.
6.
Carrying out of capacity building activities for BAPPEDA and the coordinating teams 
within the BAPPEDA, including awareness raising in poverty alleviation and training in 
participatory planning and budgeting
.
Part B
: 
Kelurahan Grants and Sub-loans
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment and social services Sub-projects in Project 
Kelurahans, through the provision of Kelurahan Grants to Grantees. 
2.
Carrying out of income-generating investment Sub-projects in Project Kelurahans, 
through the provision of Sub-loans to Kelurahan-borrowers.
3.
Carrying out of social welfare Sub-projects in Project Kelurahans through the provision 
of Kelurahan Grants to Highly Vulnerable Groups.
Part C
: 
Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grants
Carrying out of infrastructure investment and social services Sub-projects benefiting 
more than one Project Kelurahan, through the provision of Poverty Alleviation Partnership 
Grants to Grantees. 
Part D
:
Strengthening Project Implementation Agencies
1.
Strengthening the Project Management Unit’s capacity in Project implementation and 
monitoring through the provision of technical assistance by the National Management 
Consultants.
2.
Strengthening the Project Provinces’ BAPPEDA, Project Kotas, Project Kecamatans and 
Project Kelurahans’ capacity in Project implementation and monitoring through the provision of 
technical assistance by the Oversight Consultants.
3.
Carrying out evaluations of the impact of the Project on poverty in Project Kelurahans, 
including provision of technical assistance to the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Page  15
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with  the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts B and C of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more and each contract for goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(a)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures and small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
Page  16
(b)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures and 
small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(c)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Project evaluation under Part D of the Project and services required by 
communities under Sub-projects under Parts B and C of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services by the National Management Consultants and the Oversight Consultants under 
Part D of the Project requiring continuation of existing services, and services required by 
communities under Sub-projects under Parts B and C of the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
 3.
Individual Consultants
Page  17
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Project Management Unit in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, 
responsible for the implementation of the Project and the monitoring of the Project, headed by a 
Project Manager, and said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other 
resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary to accomplish its objectives.   
2.
The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the 
Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, which shall include the description of: (a) 
implementation arrangements, (b) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (c) reporting requirements, financial 
management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, (d) the 
Page  18
Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, (e) the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework referred to in Section 1.02 (u) of this 
Agreement, (f) the environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design  including  
environmental  impact  mitigation, (g) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a 
Sub-project, and (h) the criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and terms and conditions of 
Grants and Sub-loans set forth in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to participation in Project activities, a  Project Kota 
or Project Kabupaten has:
(a)
agreed to carry out activities under the Project in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association, including the Project Manual;
(b)
established a Project office for purposes of Project coordination and 
disbursement of funds;
(c)
taken all steps required to make available counterpart funds as required; and 
(d)
established a list of Project Kelurahans in accordance with the criteria set out in 
the Project Manual.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to participation in Project activities under Part C of 
the Project, a Project Kota or Project Kabupaten has:
(a)
complied with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule;
(b)
agreed to carry out activities under Part C of the Project in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association, including the Project Manual;
(c)
established an independent Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant Selection 
Committee consisting of BKM Forum members, community representatives (including 
non-governmental organizations if such organizations wish to participate) and local government 
staff;
(d)
taken all steps required to fund the operational costs of the PJOK-PAPG; and
(e)
taken all steps required to promote the development of joint proposals by local 
government agencies and community organizations including the provision of required funds.
5.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall (a) prepare and make available 
materials for poverty awareness-raising, acceptable to the Association, for the first year of 
Project implementation; and (b) thereafter, prepare and make available socialization materials, 
acceptable to the Association, until completion of the Project, in a timely manner.  
6.
In carrying out Part A.3 and A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall (a) prepare and make 
available training materials therefore, acceptable to the Association, for the first year of Project 
implementation; and (b) thereafter, prepare and make available training materials, acceptable to 
the Association, until completion of the Project, in a timely manner.  
7.
The Borrower shall ensure, at all times, that public information, aimed at disclosing to 
Page  19
inhabitants of Project Kecamatans and Project Kelurahans all administrative, financial, 
environmental, social, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, 
preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, including the Project Manual, is available free 
of charge at the offices of the respective Camat and Lurah. 
8.
The Borrower shall ensure that Sub-projects are selected for purposes of Parts B and C 
of the Project in accordance with the criteria and the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Schedule.
9.
The Borrower shall ensure that, for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, a revolving fund 
is established and maintained by the respective BKM in the Project Kelurahans, in accordance 
with procedures agreed with the Association and set forth in the Project Manual, for repayment 
of Sub-loans and further on-lending of the repaid funds.
10.
In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of residents 
of Kelurahans and to avoid the displacement of said residents; 
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents is 
unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the relevant BKM or Dinas shall, before 
the carrying out of the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make 
available to such residents, compensation in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more residents are adversely Displaced by a 
Sub-project: 
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such plan to the Association 
for approval; and 
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all Displaced 
Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with the provisions 
of said plan.
11.
In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
avoid, and, if not possible, minimize cultural, social and economic adverse 
effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused or likely to be caused by the Project; and
(b)
through a process of informed consultation and participation, involve concerned 
Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of Sub-projects so as to ensure that 
the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People under the Project are in harmony with 
their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights.
12.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall select Project Kotas and Project 
Kabupatens in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association and shall select:
(a)
by November 30, 2002, four Project Kotas or Project Kabupaten that are 
Page  20
participating in the Urban Poverty Project (Credit 3210-IND), for piloting Poverty Alleviation 
Partnership Grants;
(b)
by September 30, 2003, thirteen Project Kotas or Project Kabupatens; and
(c)
by September 30, 2004, an additional thirteen Project Kotas or Project 
Kabupatens.
13.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out an evaluation of the 
performance of the selected Project Kotas and Project Kabupatens in the implementation of the 
Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant program, and furnish such evaluation to the Association by 
October 31 of each year, commencing October 31, 2003, and until completion of the Project. 
14.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 15, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
Annex to Schedule 4
Selection Criteria for Sub-Projects
A.
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part B of the Project
1.
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes, (c) relate to 
the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products (including pesticides, 
ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials containing asbestos, arms and 
drugs); (d) relate to activities producing liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions at harmful 
levels, (e) relate to activities using, producing, storing or transporting hazardous materials and 
wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to activities in protected areas; (h) relate to fisheries 
activities that are not in accordance with standards set by the Borrower’s Fishery Service 
Agency; or (i) include the financing of government salaries.
2.
The estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount of Kelurahan 
Grants and Sub-loans approved in the relevant Project Kelurahan does not exceed in the 
Page  21
aggregate:
(a)
Rp. 150,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with less than 3,000 inhabitants;
(b)
Rp. 250,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 3,000 or more inhabitants but less 
than 10,000 inhabitants; and
(c)
Rp. 450,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 10,000 or more inhabitants.
3.
Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project
(a)
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project shall be a public 
infrastructure investment project or a social service project which is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it.
(b)
The estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall be not more than 
Rp.30,000,000.
(c)
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project in the education sector 
shall be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota education master plan, if such plan exists.
(d)
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project in the health sector shall 
be compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota health master plan, if such plan exists.
(e)
A Sub-project Implementation Agreement shall be entered into between the 
Grantee and BKM, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
4.
Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project
(a)
Each proposed Sub-project shall be a poverty alleviation and income-generating 
investment project which is technically, financially, socially and environmentally viable, and 
economically justified. 
(b)
Sub-loans shall be made on terms and conditions agreed with the Association 
and set forth in the Project Manual, including the following: the amount of the Sub-loan shall be 
not more than Rp. 500,000 for first-time Kelurahan borrowers and Rp.2,000,000 for other 
Kelurahan borrowers.
5.
Sub-projects under Part B.3 of the Project
(a)
Each Sub-project proposed under Part B.3 of the Project shall be a social welfare 
project or activity which is technically justified.
(b)
The estimated cost of all proposed Sub-projects shall be not more than:
(i)
Rp. 15,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with less than 3,000 inhabitants;
(ii)
Rp. 25,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 3,000 or more inhabitants but 
less than 10,000 inhabitants; and
Page  22
(iii)
Rp. 45,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 10,000 or more inhabitants.
(c)
A Sub-project Implementation Agreement shall be entered into between the 
Grantee and BKM, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
B.
Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part C of the Project
1.
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes, (c) relate to 
the manufacture or use of environmentally harmful products (including pesticides, 
ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials containing asbestos, arms and 
drugs); (d) relate to activities producing liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions at harmful 
levels; (e) relate to activities using, producing, storing or transporting hazardous materials and 
wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to activities in protected areas; (h) relate to fisheries 
activities that are not in accordance with standards set by the Borrower’s Fishery Service 
Agency; or (i) include the financing of government salaries.
2.
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project shall be:
(a)
a public infrastructure investment project or a social service project which is 
technically, financially, socially and environmentally viable, and economically justified by the 
number of people benefiting from it;
(b)
a Sub-project proposed by Kelurahan organizations in partnership with local 
government agencies; and
(c)
funded at least 50% by DINAS development budget, BKM and private sponsors.
3.
The Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant per Sub-project shall be Rp.30,000,000 or 
more, but not more than Rp.200,000,000, provided, however that the total amount of such grant 
and all other Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grants approved for the relevant Project Kabupaten 
or Project Kota shall not exceed:
(a)
Rp. 4,500,000,000 in Project Kabupatens or Project Kotas with less than 15 
BKMs;
(b)
Rp. 6,000,000,000 in Project Kabupatens or Project Kotas with between 15 and 
25 BKMs; and 
(c)
Rp. 7,500,000,000 in Project Kabupatens or Project Kotas with more than 25 
BKMs.
4.
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project in the education sector shall be 
compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota education master plan, if such plan exists.
5.
Each Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project in the health sector shall be 
compatible with the relevant Kabupaten/Kota health master plan, if such plan exists.
6.
A Sub-project Implementation Agreement shall be entered into between the Grantee and 
PJOK PAPG, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
Page  23
Schedule 5
Performance Indicators
MID TERM 
REVIEW
End of
Project
Source of
Data
Phase I sites
Phase II 
sites
I.
SOCIALIZATION
Number of Kelurahans participating
1210
1017
2227MIS
Percent of Kelurahan population who participated in socialization 
meetings
10%
10%
10%MIS
Percent of poor Kelurahan population that attended at least one 
socialization meeting
25%
25%
25%Surveys
Number of socialization meetings per Kelurahan
24
24
24MIS
*
Percent of Kelurahan population aware of the Project and its 
objectives
30%
15%
70%Surveys
II.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION
Number of coordinating committees formed at city level
53
26
79MIS
Number of BKMs formed
1210
1017
2227MIS
Percent of women BKM members
20
20%
20%MIS
Percent of Kelurahan population that voted in the final stage of BKM 
election
2%
2%
2%MIS
*
Percent of participating Kelurahans with Community Development 
Plan completed and ratified
95%
95%
95%MIS
Percent of Kelurahan population who attended community meeting or 
focus group discussions as part of Community Development Plan 
preparation 
5%
5%
5%MIS
Percent of Kelurahan population aware of Community Development 
Plan
50%
50%
50%Surveys
Number of community cadres per Kelurahan
3
3
3MIS
Number of BKM forums established
53
26
79MIS
Number of community members (BKM, KSM, UPK, community 
cadre) trained per Kelurahan
20
20
20MIS
*
Percent of BKM/UPK with audit reports
80%
50%
80%MIS
Percent of BKM/UPK with unqualified audit reports
75%
75%
75%MIS
Percent of Kelurahan Grants disbursed
80%
20%
100%MIS
III.
SERVICE PROVISION UNDER KELURAHAN GRANTS
Number of credit proposals submitted per Kelurahan
20
10
40MIS
Outstanding loans as a percent of amount allocated to credit
80%
40%
90%MIS
Repayment rate
75%
75%
90%MIS
Percent increase in credit to households/micro enterprises at market 
interest rates
20%
10%
20%Surveys
Page  24
MID TERM 
REVIEW
End of
Project
Source of
Data
Phase I sites
Phase II 
sites
*
Percent of households whose income increased after having 
received a credit under the Urban Poverty Project
40%
30%
50%Surveys
Percent of poor (PS, S1)in credit groups/percent of poor in Kelurahan
1.3
1.3
1.3MIS
Number of other service proposals submitted per Kelurahan
5
5
10MIS
Percent of accepted proposals for other services completed
70%
50%
90%MIS
*
Percent of poor among direct beneficiaries of other services provided / 
percent poor in Kelurahan population
1.6
1.6
1.6
Surveys
Percent of women in KSMs
30%
30%
30%MIS
IV.
SERVICES PROVIDED UNDER PAPG
PAPG cities selected
17
13
30MIS
PAPG Selection Committees formed
17
13
30MIS
*
Percent of local government co-financing in PAPG
25%
25%
25%MIS
Number of PAPG sub-projects completed per city
25
10
40MIS
Percent of Kelurahan population aware of PAPG in PAPG 
participating cities
20%
10%
30%Surveys
Percent of local government staff aware of PAPG in PAPG 
participating cities
20%
10%
30%Surveys
*
Percent of poor among direct beneficiaries of services provided 
under PAPG/ percent poor in city population
1.6
1.6
1.6Surveys
* Key indicators to be monitored on a yearly basis.
