                                                                                            39503


                            Integrated SafeguardsData Sheet (ISRC3)
                                            Appraisal Stage
Section I -Basic Information

A. Basic Project Data
A.1.Project Statistics
Countrv: Indonesia                                     I Proiect ID:
Project:AdditionalFinancing For the SecondUrban          TTL: George Soraya
Poverty Project (UPP-2)
Total project cost (by component):US$140 million

(a) Community Planning and Local Government Capacity Building: (US$3 1.1 million)


(b) Kelurahan Grants: (US$85.5 million)


(c) Implementation Technical Assistance: (US$20.4 million)


(d) Unallocated :US$3 million

                                                       I
Appraisal Date: December 2006-January2007                Loadcredit amount(Sm):US$140 million
                                                        IBRD
Other financingamountsby source:                            ($m.)
ManagingUnit: EASIN                                      Sector:EASUR
Lending Instruments: Sector Investment Loan            I
Is this project processed under OP 8.50(Emergencyrecovery?             Yes? - [ I       No?   [XI
Environmental Category: B                              I Safeguard Classification:Sf
A.2. Project Objectives

The objectives of the UPP-2 are: (i) to empower urban communities tc11address poverty through
strengthening community organizations; (ii) to improve the capacity o f local government
agencies to work with community organizations for poverty alleviation; and (iii) to improve the
welfare of the urban poor.

These objectives will be achieved through: (i) building community capacity for the formation and
institutionalization of democratically elected kelurahan level organizations that are accountable to
communities; (ii) provision of grants to communities directly and transparently through these
kelurahan organizations to finance poverty alleviation activities; (iii) provision of a Poverty
Alleviation Fund at the local government level for cross-kelurahan activities, assessed through
joint proposals from these kelurahan organizations and local governmt:nt agencies; and, (iv)
strengthening the capacities of local governments to work with the coinmunity organizations.

The UPP-2 additional financing will scale up the UPP-2 to support the GOI's newly created
national poverty reduction program (PNPM). Changes to the existing project include:
(a) geographic expansion to new areas; (b) adoption of a more rigorocis anti-corruption action
plan; (c) strengthened financial management, procurement, and disbursement arrangements; and,
(d) improved training program for consultants and facilitators, including modules on community-
based disaster management. These revisions are consistent with the project's objectives and will
improve the effectiveness of project implementation.

A.3. Project Description

The PNPM will cover 7,273 kelurahans located in 33 provinces of Inclonesia. Of this total, 1,726
kelurahans will be included through the ongoing UPP-3 project, and tihe remaining 5,547
kelurahans will be financed by the UPP-2 additional financing. The UPP-2 PNPM additional
financing is comprised of three components:

Component 1:Community Planning and Local Government Capacity Building: This
component funds the cost of facilitators to carry out social intermediation activities, training,
workshops, meetings and focus group discussions,and production of :socializationmaterials and
publications. Outputs under this component include communitydevelopment plans (CDP),
formation of community boards of trustees (BKMs), and local government capacity building.

Component 2: Kelurahan Grants: Sub-projectsincluded in the CDPs are supported by block
grants for kelurahans. These sub-projects cover an open menu of poverty alleviation activities
with a short negative list. Typical activities are: specific investments pre-identified by
communities (bridges, roads, school repair, health facility repair, etc); microcredit loans for
community groups, which form the basis of a revolving fund; and grant assistance to the poorest
or most vulnerable individuals (e.g., scholarships,home improvement!;, health care, etc.).

Component 3: Implementation Technical Assistance: The Project Management Unit (PMU)
has hired consultants and facilitators to assist in project implementation.Technical assistance is
being provided through national management consultants (NMC) at the central level, and
oversight consultant (OC) teams at the provincial level, with offices in the participating districts.

The PAP-G component of UPP-2 is not included as part of the PNPM because it focuses on
larger infrastructure (PAP-G= Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant: This component
encourages partnerships between local governmentand communities. Local governments may
access matching grants for city level poverty reduction activities and finance poverty alleviation
sub-projectsthat are too big to be financed by the block grants, or that:require local government
involvement(e.g., networked infrastructureor operations and maintenance) and that cover more
than one ward).

The project will be implemented from January 2007 - December 2008#.

A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristicsrelevant to tlie safeguard analysis:
The PNPM will cover 7,273 kelurahans located in in 249 kotaslkabupatens in 33 provinces of
Indonesia. This includes UPP-1 and UPP-2 that cover 2,636 kelurahalis;2,911 new kelurahans
which will be financed under UPP-2 additional financing and 1,726k.elurahans which will be
financed under the ongoing UPP-3 project.

B. CheckEnvironmental Category A [ 1, B [XI, C [ 1, FI [ ]


Comments:As a highly decentralized project, the UPP-2 additional financing will support a large
number of small sub-project investments in urban areas. Type, scale and approach of
implementingactivities at the community level financed by the UPP-:! additional financing
remain the same as those financed under UPP-2. It is expected to probride micro-loans for income
generating activities (the ceiling for individual sub-projectsor micro-loans per group is Rp.30
million or US$3,550), and finance small scale infrastructureand other services, through the
kelurahan grants (range from US$16,700-38,900 for the existing UPP kelurahans and between
US$22,200-55,600 for new kelurahans). The low ceiling for individual activities, combined with
the types of activities expected to be financed (kelurahan roadbridge improvements,tertiary
drainage, water supply to individual households, and garbage collection through handcarts)
indicatethat none of these investments is expected to have any large scale, significant or
irreversible impacts. Environmental impacts would come mostly from poor site management
during the project construction activity.

Given that the Project is using a community-basedapproach and the h igh participation of the
Project beneficiaries, and the potential scale of environmental impact:: can be localized and
measures to mitigate the impacts are manageable,the Project remains considered as a Bank
Environmental Category B. Annex 16of the UPP-2 PAD provides the Environmental
Guidelines. This will be used for sub-project screening financed by the UPP-2 additional
financing.

C.Safeguard Policies Triggered (in UPP-2 and in UPP-2 additionalfinan!:ing)

                                                                      Yes                       No
Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP4.01)                               [XI                        [ 1
Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                         [ 1                       1x1
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             [ 1                       [ XI
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 OPN 11.03-)
                                  -                                    [XI                      [ 1
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                 [XI                       [ 1
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                          [XI                       [ 1
---
Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                  [ I                       [X I
Safety of Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                           [ 1                       [ x 1
Projects in Disputed Areas (OPIBPIGP 7.60)-                           [ 1                       [ XI
Proiects on International Waterways (OPIBPIGP7.50)                    [ 1                      [ x 1




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejinal determination oftheparties'
claims on the disputed areas

Section I1-Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
D.1 . Safeguards policies under the project will be addressed in the following manner:

     Sub-projects will be checked against GOI's screening Criteria to ensure that no project would
     necessitate a full environmental assessment. Those that require ANDAL, will be eliminated from
     consideration for financing. Most sub-projects are expected to be small-scale, site specific and have a
     localized impact that can be managed locally by the community. Environmental Guidelines (Annex 16
     of UPP-2 PAD) will be used to address minor environmental issues that may arise.
     Sub-projects are not expected to require involuntary resettlement or acquisition of significant amounts
     of land. In the event they do, however, a Land Acquisition and Resettlenl-entPolicy Framework
     (Annex 17of UPP-2 PAD) has been developed in accordance with OP4.12 to ensure application of the
     appropriate safeguard policies.
     The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that communities would be able to identify if
     any proposed sub-project will have an impact on the indigenous or isola,!edvulnerablepeople and to
     ensure that these activities will benefit them and not create significant negative impacts on them. Sub-
     project proposals will require the identification of any such activities ancl require the group proposing
     the sub-project to specify adequate mitigation measures (see Annex 18 of UPP-2 PAD).
     The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that communities would be able to identify if
     any proposed sub-project will have an impact on cultural property and tcl ensure that these activities do
     not adversely affect cultural property. Sub-project proposals will require the identification of any such
     activities and require the group proposing the sub-project to specify adequate mitigation measures
     (Annex 11of UPP-2 PAD, sample of sub-project proposal form will be used to identify this). To date,
     there is no report on the involvement or impacts to the IVP in the Projecl:. It is very unlikely that IVP
     will be involved or affected by the Project, since the Project covers urbar~areas.
All sub-project proposals will be screened by the BKM and facilitators for an.:yenvironmental, land
acquisition/resettlement and IVP impacts. Sub-projects that involve significant negative impacts will not
be financed under this Project. Sub-projects adversely affecting the cultural 1:lroperty will not be eligible
for financing under the project.

D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the
project area.

None is anticipated; sub-projects are relatively small-scale, site specific and decentralized to serve a
particular community.

D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)
Communities and BKMs will choose how they want to use the funds under the kelurahan grants based on
the Community Development Plans (CDP) that they will develop. BKMs will evaluate proposals for sub-
projects from community groups based on the CDP. It is not possible to determine prior to when the
safeguards policies will be triggered. The Project will upscale and expand thc: on-going UPP-2 project
components, except the PAP-G. The BKM, with the assistance of the faciliteitors,will screen the sub-
projects. Sub-projects that will have significant negative impacts in terms of -thethree safeguard areas
(environment, land acquisition/resettlement, and IVP) will not be financed. Therefore, the Project will only
finance sub-projects that may create insignificant and site-specific impacts, which can easily be managed
by the community. Observations in the ongoing UPP-1 and UPP-2 projects slnow that most of the
infrastructure sub-projects have improved the environmental conditions and access to basic services to the
communities.

D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. ~l'ovidean assessment of
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Kelurahan facilitators and other project staff (DMCs) will be trained in the understanding and application
of the guidelines and assist in the preparation of sub-project proposals. BKMs will be trained in how to

The project finances small scale investments in bridges, public toilets, footpaths, local roads, drainage,
water supply, etc. Given the relatively small amount of funding available for infrastructure from the
Project, most of the sub-projects focus on the improvement or repair of existii~ginfrastructure. Land is only
required in very few cases and usuallv the land owners (beneficiaries of the sub-projects) voluntarily give
their land (hibah) through consultations and musyawarah. People who volunfiuily give their land to the
project are direct beneficiaries of the services provided. During the review of'the proposals, BKMs ensure
that the proposal is in the Community Development Plan (CDP) and land, if .?ceded by the sub-project, is
available. BKMs and facilitators also ensure that there has been a ''musyawarah" or "rembug warga"
(community meetings/consultations) among the KSM (community group who proposes the sub-project)
members on the land needed, if it is private land; community land may also tile provided if available.
Furthermore, the BKM and the facilitators ensure that there is an agreement ilhat the land owner(s) is
voluntarily donating the land for the sub-project. Field verification is also done by the BKM and facilitators
on this agreement. Once this process is complete, if there are no outstanding issues or complaints, the BKM
and facilitators approve the sub-project.

An example of land acquisition incidence in UPP-2 is presented below. Maki~saris the largest city in
eastern Indonesia, with a population of 1.2 million.

                                                  UPP-2in Kota Makasar
                                              Incidence of Land Acquisition
                                        Access to land for subprojects                             IndigenousPeoples
 sub-projects      # sub-             # sub-              # sub-projects       # sub-projects      # sub-
                                      projects with       with




1.   UPP-2 in Makasar comprises 26 villages, the data above covers 24 villages
2.  The size of land acquisition of each sub-project ranges from 6 m2 to 200 m2;land owners of each sub-project range from 1-5.
    The largest size of land acquisition of 200 m2 is for the widening of the local road of 100111length and acquired 1 m on each
    side expansion. Total land owners are five.


An experienced environmental consultant and social specialist will be required to summarize progress,
monitor and measure the impact of the project on the environment, and for land acquisitionlresettlement


The Borrower is familiar with and has the capacity to implement the environmental guidelines, land
acquisition and resettlement frameworks as well as the IVP framework, as they have managed the
implementation of UPP over the last 7 years. An environmental specialist and a social expert will be
recruited as part of the NMC to assist the PMU. The environmental specialisi:and the social expert will
provide necessary training on environmental guidelines, land acquisition and resettlement, as well as IVP
policy frameworks and cultural property identification to the DMCs and will ensure that the Project will




D.5. IdentifLthe key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultati
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the BKM and the community. The Oversight Consultants/DMCs will be trained
on the safeguards and will carry out similar training for the facilitators and BICMs, as well as raising
awareness in all participating communities and KSMs. The UPP-2 Safeguar1:l Policy Frameworks will be
made available to the public through the Bank's Project Information Center i i ~Jakarta and will also be
published in the project manuals and be made available, by the Oversight Cotlsultants/DMCs, to the

 community organizationsldinases preparing proposals. In addition, it will
 website (www.p2kp.orq). This ISDS will be submitted to the Bank's PIC.
n



P
 F. Disclosure Requirements               Date
 Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                                 ............
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                            0211912002
 Date of submission to InfoShop                             0211912002
 For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the E.4 to the Executive Directors
                                                             ...I...I...   or Not Applicable
 Resettlement Action Plan/FrameworWPolicyProcess:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                                  ............
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                               0211912002
 Date of submission to InfoShop                               0211912002
 Indigenous Peoples Development PladFramework:
 Date of receipt by the Bank
 Date of "in-country" disclosure
 Date of submission to Infoshop
                                                                                                                   ---
 Pest Management Plan:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable
 Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable
 Dam Safety ManagementPlan:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable
 Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable
 If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explair;why. Not triggered for this
 Project, only for UPP-02
IThe  UPP-2 safeguard policy frameworks have been adopted and operationalized in the Project Manual. It               I
 has been socialized in 130 local governments, and in over 2,000 villages, in the last four years. In various




 OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats:
               -                                                                                - No
                                                                                                Yes
 Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical
                                                                                                                  X
 natural habitats?
 If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other
 (non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
 acceptable to the Bank?
 OP 4.09 Pest Management:
           -
 Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? NA
 Is a separate PMP required?
 If yes, are PMP requirements included in project design?

IDraft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) CulturalProperty:
                                -
  Does the EA include adequate measures?
  Does the crediuloan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse
  impacts on physical cultural resources? The project will identify sites having
  archeological, paleontological, historical, religious, or unique natural values as
  defined under the OPN and determine if project activities will have adverse affects      x*)
1 on them. Subprojects adversely affectingthe cultural property will not be eligible
  for financing under the project.
  *) Using a sample form of sub-project proposal of Annex 11of UPP-2 PAD)
  OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples:
           -                                                                               - No
                                                                                           Yes
 Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consulti~tion
                                                                                           X
 with the Indigenous People?
 If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?        X
 If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and
 amroved bv the Regional Social Develoument Unit?
 OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement:
               -                                                                          - No
                                                                                           Yes
 Has a resettlement action plan, policy kamework or policy process been prepared?          X
 If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan 1
                                                                                           X
 policy framework 1policy process?
 OP/BP 4.36 -Forests:                                                                     &s     No
 Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraint:;been
 carried out? The project will not finance activities that would involve significant
                                                                                                 X
 conversion or degradation of critical forest areas or related critical natural habitats
Ias defined under the policy. No action is required under this policy.
IDoes the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these
 constraints?
 Does the project fmance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include prc!lvisions
 for certification system?
 OP/BP 4.37-Safety of Dams:                                                               - No
                                                                                           Yes
 Have dam safety plans been prepared? The project will not finance construction or
 rehabilitation of any large dams as defined under this policy. No action is required
 under this policy.
 Have the TORSas well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (:POE)
Ibeen reviewed and approved by the Bank?
 Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangement:;been
 made for public awareness and training?
 OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways:
           -                                                                              Yes   -No
IHave the other riparians been notified of the project? There are no known project
Icomponents involving imtemational waterways as defmed under the policy. No                      X
 action is required under this policy.
 If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then
 has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared
 and sent?
 What are the reasons for the exception?
      Please explain:
 Has the RVP approved such an exception?
I


 OP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas:
           -                                                                                    No
 Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of
 the project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for
 dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to
 the RVP?
 Does the PADIMOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP? T'lhe
 project is not located in any known disputed areas as defined under the policy. No
 action is required under this policy.

BP 17.50 PublicDisclosqre: .
          -                                                                         - No
                                                                                    Yes
Have relevantsafeb-rd   policies docbentsbeen sentto the WorldBank's-               X
InfaShop?
Have relevant documentsbeendisclosed in-countryina public place &I a form and
language that areunderstandable and access$le toproject-affectedgroupsanti1local    X

                                                                                    -
                                                                                    Yes
All Safeguard Policies:-
Have satisfactorycalendar,budgetandclear institutionalresponsibilitiesbee11 .
preparedf?r the~nrplemen~tio~of   thede&d      measures?        .:                  Y     .
                                                                           ,

                                                                                    I&

                                                            ,  .
Have safeguardmeasurescosgbeen includedinproject cost? . ..'                       .x
Will the safeguardmeasures costsbe fundedas part of project implementatioil?        X        . .
Does the Monitoring andEvaluationsystemofthe projectinclude the monitoringof     .   ,.
safeguardimpactsandmemes? .                                                         4          .
Have satisfactosyimplementationarrapgementsbeen agreedwiththeborrowt:r and .           .
                                                                                    I..   '




~igned.andsubmitted6y:. .           ..                                                 Date
TaskTeamLeader:      .              GeorgeSoraya                                  .    -/*
                                                                                   '

ProjectSafeguardssPkialist1: fiVivianti Rambe.                                         a / ( b (m?
ProjectSafeguardsSpecialist2:       sonoSadoko
Project Safe.guardsSpecialist3:     DayuDharmagatni
Approved by:.               .    .

RegionalSafeguardsCoordinator:      Glenn hlorgsn
Comments:
SectorManager:               /&J.eshav~ar&t
Comments:

