                                                                                                          97585
Indonesia: Second Urban Poverty Project
                                                                                                  April 5, 2011




 Empowering local communities to define their investment priorities


Overview
With the Second Urban Poverty Program (UPP2) in Indonesia, the World Bank and the
government took a successful pilot project in urban poverty reduction and provided it with the
resources to take its approach nationwide. The first Urban Poverty Program saw urban poor
communities in a few select areas decide what they needed most, and then made these
changes happen themselves. Under UPP2, this model of development has now spread across
7,300 kelurahans (urban wards) in all 33 Indonesian provinces. Among other things,
communities under this program are now getting treatment in new health clinics, sending their
children to renovated schools, driving on smoother roads, using cleaner water, and buying their
goods from various new small businesses. This broader phase of the program has also helped
better connect the communities and their local governments, making local development a
collaborative and transparent effort.



Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA (IN BAHASA)
For tens of thousands of Indonesia’s urban poor,
their situation went from bad to worse following
the Asian financial crisis of 1997. High inflation
was compounded by lower or lost income,
triggering a spike in urban poverty numbers. At
the time, urban poor neighborhoods were in
desperate need of income and in many cases
were denied access to such basic human needs
as clean water, education, health services and
electricity. Indonesia’s transition government
needed a rapid response and, amid cries for
cleaner government, needed to figure out how to
put funds straight into the hands of the urban
poor in the most transparent way possible.
                                                      MORE

Approach                                                Sekilas Tentang P2KP

This program expands the reach and, more
importantly, builds on the lessons learned from
the first Urban Poverty Program, which in itself was a very
successful initiative that helped improve basic infrastructure
                                                                    More Results
and services in urban poor neighborhoods using block
grants and the minds and hands of the local community. The

                                                                   140,000
first phase did not involve local governments so they felt no
sense of ownership of the projects funded by UPP grants.
Under UPP2, a bridge was built between communities and
their local governments, allowing the two sides to sit together     residents of kelurahans (urban
                                                                    wards) have received skills
and collaborate on local development. In addition the               training
Government, the Bank and community committed to embark
on a learning mode, and the program modified and improved
based on from continues learning.
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION

                                                                     Second Urban Poverty Project
Results
                                                                     Country Website
Financing from the International Development Association
(IDA), totaling US$335 million, enabled the Indonesian               Country Brief
government to improve the welfare of millions in the                 Country Partnership Strategy
country’s poorest urban areas through an approach that
empowers local communities to decide for themselves what             Data and Statistics
public goods or services they need most. UPP infrastructure          Website: PNPM Mandiri
is 66% cheaper than the average cost of contractors and              Perkotaan (P2PK)
results in maintenance as the community has a vested
interest through its 35% community contribution. In addition,
the quality of infrastructure built has been rated as adequate.
By the time of the project’s completion in 2010, the UPP2
had helped:/p>

       build over 7,000,000 meters of village roads/footpaths

       build nearly 2,000,000 meters of drainage

       build over 54,000 clean water and sanitation units

       repair over 20,000 homes

       bring electricity to nearly 10,000 homes

       build over 1,600 new health clinics

       rehabilitate nearly 80 schools

       provide aid to nearly 600,000 widows, elderly persons and students

       provide skills training for over 140,000 community members

       establish over 7,000 community Boards of Trustees through election processes that
       involved more than 8 million voters

Voices


     From this training, housewives like me could hopefully start
   their own small businesses one day. This program helps
   housewives become active contributors to the household.  
                       — Nasikun, a housewife from Jagir, Surabaya,
                    who received training on how to make a variety of
                                    easy-to-cook and affordable cakes



Bank Contribution
Over the span of a decade, the Indonesian government has used US$335 million in IDA soft
loans to offer block grants to communities in over 7,300 of the country’s poorest urban wards.
Partners
UPP2 benefitted from close cooperation and partnership between the Indonesian government
and the Bank, which was considered a preferred partner for this second phase program as the
result of:

      years of experience in supporting governments in managing community-driven
      development projects

      the ability to provide timely technical expertise

      the capacity to facilitate project supervision, results monitoring and evaluation, quality
      control and beneficiary targeting

Local governments in the selected provinces were consulted regarding the features of the
program, and the project operated only in municipalities/regencies (kota/kabupaten) where the
local governments chose to participate. Local government decisions have become more
participatory and responsive. Partnership between local governments and community
organizations aim, through a "learning by doing" process, to change attitudes and behaviors on
both sides.

Toward the Future
In August 2006, the President of Indonesia launched a national program for poverty reduction.
A pillar of this program is the National Community Empowerment Program, or Program
Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (PNPM). UPP2 was selected as the PNPM delivery
vehicle for urban areas. The Government has committed to continuing PNPM until 2015 and
several Bank-supported projects will continue to support the program.
