RESTRICTED
Repoit No.  PA-103
Thb report is for cfficial u only by te Bak Grup and specificalay authorized orpnizations
or prson It wmy not bo pubilitd, quoted or cited without Bak Group authoriation. The
Dank Group dos not accp r Wty fr the awcrcgy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE SEMRY RICE PROJECT
CAMER OON
December 29, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise stated all figures are quoted in
US dollars (US$). The project cost estimate is shown in
both US$ and CFA Francs (CFAF) of 1971.
Currency Unit: CFA Franc - CFAF.
US$1           -    CFAF 278
CFAF           -    US$0.0036
CFAF 1,000,000 -    US$3,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)           -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 miles
1 meter (m)     3-    39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (m')       -    35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter             -    0.039 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation - Development Agency of
the Republic of France
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique - Agency
of the Republic of France.
SEMRY     -    Societe d' Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture
de Yagoua - Autonomous Government owned Corporation
IRAT      -    Istitut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales -
Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



CAMEROON
SENRY RICE PROJECT
ATTACHME14T TO APPRAISAL REPORT PA-1 03
Amendment to Project Costs and Financing
1.        The Appraisal Report PA-103 does not take into account the recent
exchange rate changes. As a result of these changes, the foreign exchange
costs of the project are likely to increase by the equivalent of US$200,000,
raising the total to US$4.341 million. The cost table in paragraph 4.21
of the Appraisal Report requires the following amendments:
(i) the foreign exchange component of the price contingency
should be increased from US$457,000 to US$657,000, and
(ii) the total project costs should be increased from US$7.396
to US$7.596 million.
2.        A corresponding adjustment to the financing plan is shown below.
It replaces the financing table in paragraph 4.22 of the Appraisal Report:
Foreign
Local Costs      Exchange Costs        Total Costs
US$              US$                   US$
Million   %      Million     %         Million   %
IDA                 0.5       15      3.2        74        3.7       49
FAC                 0.2        6      1.1        26        1.3       17
CCCE                1.1      33        -                   1.1       14
Government          1.5      46        -                   1.5       20
Total          3.3     100       4.3      100         7.6      100
3.        In the above table the amount of the IDA Credit was increased by
US$200,000, raising the total from US$3.5 million to US$3.7 million.
This increase raises IDA's share of the foreign exchange financing from
71% to 74%, while it raises IDA's contribution to total project cost from
47% to 49%. The estimated disbursements of the Credit shown in Annex 8,
table 2 require to be increased by about 3% per quarter.
4.        The cost increase amounts to approximately 3.2%  of the overall
project costs. Its effect on the project's rate of return will not be
significant. The possibility of future cost increases was examined by
a sensitivity analysis (Annex 20, page 2 of the Appraisal Report). It was
shown that a cost increase in the order of 10% would reduce the rate of
return from 11% to 10.2%.
January 7, 1972






CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  .................................                                  i-
I.     INTRODUCTION  ............................................1
II.      BACKGROUND  ..............................................                                       1
General   ............................................1
Agricultural  Sector  ................................                                   2
TII.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  ........................................                                      3
rGeneral  ............................................                                   3
Climate  ............................................                                    3
Topography,  Drainage  and  Soils  .....................                                 3
Irrigation  Facilities  and  Other  Services  ....                         .......       4
Research  and  Experiments  ...........................                                  4
Farm  Size  and  Farming  Systems  ......................                                5
Transportation  .....................................                                    5
IV.      THE  PROJECT  .............................................                                       5
Project  Description  ................................                                   5
Project  W4orks  ......................................                                  6
Logone  Water  Agreement  .............................                                  7
W4ater  Supply,  Demand  and  Quality  ...................                               7
Engineering  Design  and  Construction  Schedule                           .......       8
Ecology  and  Health  .................................                                  8
Cost Estimates .....................................                                     9
Financino  ..........................................                                   10
SEMRY Financing Arrangements ........................    11
Procurement  ........................................                                   11
Disbursements   ......................................                                  12
Accounts  and  Audits  ................................                                 12
V.     ORGANIZATION .dND MANAGEMENT  .............................                                      12
Implementation  of  Project  Works  ....................                                12
Consultants'  Services  ..............................                                  13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. A. Otten, J. Marinet and A. Meimaris (IDA) and assisted by Messrs.
T. H. Boumendil (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program) and A. L. Gram (environmental
consultant).



-2-
Page No.
SEMRY Organization and Staffing Requirements ......   13
Toukou Research Station ...........................   14
Agricultural Inputs and Credits ...................   14
Operation and Maintenance ......     ..................   15
Recovery of Costs ........     ........................   15
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND OPERATING RETUTRNS ....    16
Production   .......................................   16
Prices   ...........................................   16
Farmers' Benefits .................................   17
Government Revenues ..............................    18
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................   1S
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................   19
ANNEXES
1. Climatic Data
2. Soils
3. Civil Works
4. Water Supply and Demand
5. Construction Schedule
6. Evaluation of Schistosomiasis Problem
7. Cost Estimates
8. Estimated Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
9. List of Equipment
10.  Organization Chart
11.  Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
12.  SEMRY Personnel Development
13.  Research Station Program
14.  Operation and Maintenance Costs
15.  Cropped Area, Yields and Production
16.  Marketing and Price Structure
17.  SEMRY Financial Estimates
18.  Farm Budgets
19.  Farm Labor Requirements
20.  Internal Economic Return
MAPS
1.  Location Map
2.  Project Map



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for expanding irrigated rice
production in Yagoua district, along the Logone River in northern Cameroon.
The project would consist of:
(a) reinforcement of the existing Logone dike and improvement
of a parallel road;
(b) construction of a new irrigation network to serve about
3,000 ha and rehabilitation of an existing 1,300 ha system;
(c)  construction of a rice mill and storage facilities to handle
project production; and
(d) procurement of equipment for on-farm development works and
farm machinery.
About 2,800 families alxeady farming in the area at a subsistence level would
each receive an irrigated plot of about 1.5 ha to cultivate rice and would
continue to farm lands with subsistence crops outside the project boundary.
Production from the project would serve to reduce the national rice deficit
and stimulate exports to nearby countries.
ii.       Rice consumption at 2.9 kg per capita is still low in Cameroon,
but it is increasing rapidly, especially with the growth of the urban
population. About 60% of total consumption is imported now and imports
are increasing as local production is virtually stagnant. At the same time,
some rice produced in the north is exported to Chad, Nigeria and the Central
African Republic due to its location near these markets. Most of the
domestically produced rice comes from the north, where expansion is limited
by inadequate irrigation facilities. Little is grown in the south as other
cash crops give a more favourable return to the farmer.
Mi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$7.4 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$4.1 million or 56% of the total. French
bilateral aid through its development agency, FAC, would finance US$1.3
million of which US$1.1 million would be for foreign exchange costs. The
IDA credit of US$3.5 million would finance remaining foreign exchange costs
(US$3.0 million) and 15% of total local currency expenditures (US$0.5 million).
"Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique" (CCCE) would finance US$1.1
million of local currency expenditures. Remaining local costs of US$1.5
million would be covered by the Federal Government of Cameroon through
budget appropriations.



- ii -
iv.       Project financing would be made available by Government to the
project authority "Societe d' Expansion et de Modernization de la Riziculture
de Yagoua" (SEMRY) on the following terms: (a) a grant of US$2.2 million;
(b) an equity contribution amounting to US$1.4 million and (c) a loan
amounting to US$3.8 million at 3.5% interest to be repaid over 35 years
with 5 years grace period.
v.        Contracts for civil works, procurement of equipment and the rice
mill totalling about US$4.6 million would be tendered through international
competitive bidding. On-farm works of US$0.4 million would be carried out
on force-account. Construction would be completed in three years and all
project activities in five years.
vi.       Overall responsibility for the proJect would rest with SEMRY,
an autonomous Government owned Corporation under the supervision of the
Federal Ministry of Planning, which is already established in the project
area and has operated satisfactorily the existing irrigation scheme and rice
mill for 12 years. SEMRY's responsibility would include implementation of all
project works, performance of operation and maintenance, provision of support-
Lng services to farmers, and purchase, processing and marketing of all rice
produced in the project area. Since SEMRY has no experience in engineering,
:Lt would receive technical assistance from Government. In addition, an
experienced consulting firm would be engaged to prepare tender documents and
supervise construction of works. A senior official of the Federal Ministry
of Planning has been appointed by decree as Government Commissioner to SEMRY
and, in that capacity, would provide overall policy guidance and supervise
project implementation.
vii.      The major benefit of the project would be the additional production
cif 10,500 tons of rice annually which would cover nearly one-quarter of future
domestic requirements as well as permit expanded exports. At full development
of the project, in 1980, farmers' net cash incomes are expected to reach about
US$240 per family or nearly four times the present level. The internal
economic return from investment in the project would be 11%.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.5 million
equivalent. The borrower would be the Federal Government of Cameroon.



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Federal Republic of Cameroon has requested
an IDA credit of US$3.5 million. The credit would assist in financing the
construction of a 4,300 ha irrigation system for rice production in Yagoua
district, along the Logone River in northern Cameroon.
1.02      The first project financed by the Bank Group in Cameroon's agricul-
tural sector is the CAMDEV plantation project (490-CM) consisting of the
development of about 17,000 ha of oil palm, rubber, tea and pepper. This
project, financed with an IDA credit of US$11 million and a Bank loan of US$7
million, started in 1967 and will be completed in 1975. It is progressing
satisfactorily with the IDA credit entirely disbursed. The second agricul-
tural project, the SOPAME oil palm plantation (593-CM), was financed through
a Bank loan of US$7.9 to develop about 9,000 ha of oil palm. It started in
1969 and is also progressing satisfactorily.
1.03      The proposed irrigation project would be the third Bank Group
operation in the agricultural sector in Cameroon. Gravity irrigation has
been used in the project area for 12 years, having been introduced before
independence and continued afterwards with French bilateral assistance. The
experience has demonstrated that farmers are responsive to the use of irri-
gation and capable of growing rice for which markets exist both in Cameroon
and in neighboring countries. The project was identified by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program in 1967 and prepared to feasibility stage by a consortium
of three consulting firms, financed by the "Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation"
(FAC), the development aid agency of the French Government. The three year
delay in preparation to feasibility stage is due in part to the time required
for hydrological measurements and because a reconnaissance study was initially
carried out before the feasibility study was commissioned. This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission during January/February 1971,
composed of Messrs. A. Otten, J. Marinet and A. Meimaris, who prepared this
report with the assistance of Messrs. M. Altaf Hussain and D. Lomax. The
mission was assisted in Cameroon by Mr. H. Boumendil from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program. Mr. A. L. Gram, an environmental consultant, visited
the project areas in June 1971 to review the schistosomiasis problem.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Federal Republic of Camer2on lies on the west coast of Central
Africa and covers an area of 475,000 km . The country stretches over 1,500
km ranging from equatorial rain forests in the south to high-altitude plateau
lands in the center and savannah areas in the north. The Republic is a



Federation between French speaking East Cameroon with four-fifths of the
population, and English speaking West Cameroon. Its population, currently
estimated at 5.8 million, is unevenly distributeJ with the highest concen-
trations being in four areas: around Yaounde, the capital; around Douala,
the major port; the coastal areas of the southwest; and, to a lesser extent,
around Garoua in the north. Given the inadequate communications and transport
facilities and the various ethnic origins and cultures of the inhabitants,
regional differences in economic development are significant. In order to
foster regional integration, the government has given high prioritv in its
public investment planning to the transport sector.
2.02      Economic growth in the country has been fairly satisfactory in
recent years; Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has grown at 5.3% per year ov r
the 1965/66-1969/70 period, well above the annual population growth of 2-Ze,
Per capita income was US$145 in 1969/70. Economic growth in this periocd was
largely due to high prices for Cameroon's main export commodities (cotfee,
cocoa).  With the expected price decline for these commodities on the worid
market, future growth will be less rapid.
Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture is the mainstay of the Cameroon economy, proviiing
a livelihood for about 80% of the population and producing over 80% of
Cameroon's exports. Because of the diverse climate, a large variety of crops
are grown. Although plantation agriculture (cocoa, banana, coffee, sugar cane,
tea, rubber, palm oil) is slowly gaining in importance, the bulk of agricul-
tural production remains in the hands of small farmers who produce both cash
and subsistence crops on farms ranging in size from 1 to 4 ha. More than 60%
of total agricultural output is in the subsistence sector, and the average
farmers' cash income per family is estimated at IJS$94 per annum. Average
farmers' family cash income in the project area at present is substantially
lower: around US$67 per annum.
2.04      Rice consumption in Cameroon is low in comparison with other
African countries: about 17,000 tons per year or 2.9 kg per capita. Urban
centers in the south are the main markets for rice. Urban population is
increasing by 7% per year, and so is rice consumption, thereby following the
trend in evidence in other African countries.  Some 7,000 tons of rice are
produced domestically, of which about 70% is grown in Yagoua district in
Northern Cameroon. From this area 1,000 tons of rice are exported each year
to nearby markets in the Central African Republic, Northern Nigeria and
Chad. Cameroon imports far exceed exports however, as around 11,000 tons of
rice are imported annually in the south to satisfy urban consumption. The
proposed project would cover nearly one quarter of future domestic require-
ments and also permit expanded future exports of rice (para 6.02 and 6.03).
2.05      The political organization of Cameroon entails a fairly complex
administrative structure involving a Federal Government and two State Govern-
ments: one for East Cameroon and one for West Cameroon. Although the Federal
Government is gaining importance, responsibility for the formulation of



-3-
agricultural policy still rests with the State Governments, which are in-
sufficiently equipped for the task. There is no federal ministry of
agriculture and projects in the agricultural sector involving external aid
are handled by the federal Ministry of Planning. For want of suitable
institutions, Government's involvement with the agricultural sector is
limited to a few specific operations such as a cocoa rehabilitation scheme,
development of plantations and a cotton production program.
2.06      Although the Government guarantees producer prices for rice and
other main export crops through marketing boards, the bulk of production is
sold through private channels. Cooperative marketing has remained localized
having gained no importance as yet in the country as a whole. Credit to
individual farmers is mostly given by private traders and not available
through government-owned credit institutions except for closely supervised
credit schemes ("Operations de productivite").
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is in northern Cameroon along the west bank of the
Logone River, which, at that point, forms the border with Chad (see Map 1).
The river is a major tributary of the Chari River which feeds into Lake Chad.
Because the plains south and southeast of this lake are flooded for more than
five months each year, two dikes were built on opposite banks of the Logone
to provide protection for part of the area. One starts at Yagoua in Cameroon
and the other at Bongor in Chad; each is about 49 km long. Intake regulators
permit gravity irrigation during high water stages. The site of the proposed
project is behind the existing embankment on the Cameroon side of the river
(see Map 2).
Climate
3.02      Rainfall averages 850 mm annually in Yagoua and decreases slightly
towards the north. There is a single rainy season that lasts from June to
October, but its irregular starting time and the intermittent rainfall pattern
at the beginning of the rice growing period from July to August have an
adverse effect on crop yields.
3.03      The average annual temperature is 27C, with small seasonal
variations. During December and January, however, daily temperatures vary
widely with nights getting as cold as 10°C. This prolongs the growing period
for dry-season crops. Additional data on rainfall, temperature and relative
humidity are given in Annex 1.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.04      The project area is located on a flat plain, sloping slightly from
south to north (less than 0.2%) with a cross slope from the Logone River to



the Guerleo channel. The Guerleo is a natural bypass channel that diverts
part of the flood waters of the river toward depressions in the plain and
serves as a natural drain. Although the flows in the Guerleo do not flood
the presently cultivated areas, they severely restrict drainage during high
water stages.
3.05      Soils with a very fine texture and over 50% clay content pre-
dominate in the project area as shown by soil investigations completed in
1969. Such soils are suitable for rice growing but they require good
surface drainage to prevent them from becoming alkaline. Although aboul
3% of soils in the area were found to contain alkali and were therefore
excluded from the project, they would become usable later with good surface
drainage following irrigation. Also excluded from the project were soils
with a lower clay content, and those with a surface layer of loam over clay.
Most of these soils are planted to sorghum and millet, which would continue
to be grown as subsistence crops. Additional data are given in Annex 2.
Irrigation Facilities and Other Services
3.06      After completion of the river dike in 1957 (para. 3.01), the
Cameroon Coverntnent established a project authority (SEMRY) to develop lands
for rice cropping. This authority constructed primary and secondary earth
canals from the intake regulators to irrigated field blocks that ranged
in size from 30 to 200 ha. Aftet the canal system was established and
land clearing completed, the blocks were turned over to farmers for wet
season rice cultivation exclusively. Besides operating and maintaining
the works, SEMRY provides the farmers with mechanical cultivation, seeds
and extension services. It also purchases, stores and processes, in its
6,000 ton rice mill, all the paddy produced in the area. To date, the
irrigated blocks cover about 4,200 ha, 1,300 ha of which are located in
the proposed project area. In the absence of pumping facilities, water is
supplied by gravity at high stages only, and irrigation is therefore
irregular. Under these conditions, the use of modern inputs is limited
and the yields are low.
Research and Experiments
3.07      The Toukou Research Station is located in the area now irrigated
and is operated by twb r-earch specialists on rice, provided by the
"Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales" (IRAT), a French research
institute operating undet contract with the Cameroon Government. The
station has concentrated on experiments with new varieties and on dry-season
cropping and operates a pump that lifts water out of the Logone River to
irrigate some 80 ha. Part of these lands were allocated to farmers for rice
cultivation during the cutrent (1971) dry season and results have been
satisfactory with avetage paddy yields exceeding 4.0 tons per ha.  During
the last three years, dry-season cropping was also carried out successfully
on the Chad side of the river at Bongor under similar soil and climatic
conditions over 200 ha, with paddy yields exceeding 3.0 tons per ha.



Farm Size and Farming Systems
3.08      The average farm family consists of seven persons, including four
adult workers, and it cultivates 3.0 ha. About 0.8 ha of this area is
used for rice; 1 ha is grown with transplanted sorghum, and the remaining
1.2 ha carry subsistence crops, mainly millet and rainfed sorghum. While
wet season rice is cropped continuously on irrigated fields, the areas
planted with sorghum and millet are cropped under shifting cultivation.
Yields are low averaging about 1.2 tons/ha for paddy and 1.0 tons/ha for
food crops.
3.09      Many farmers own cattle that they herd communally, and some have
started to use draft oxen on dry-farmed lands. On heavy rice soils, however,
SEMRY introduced mechanical cultivation successfully beginning in 1957 and
this practice would continue under the project. Fishing is an important
dry-season activity, but the Logone River is at present over-exploited and
the catch is declining.
Transportation
3.10      The road system is adequate to meet project transportation require-
ments.  An all-weather road connects Yagoua with the main north-south trunk
road from Fort Foureau to Yaounde, parts of which are being improved under a
Bank project (Loan 663/Credit 180-CM). A ferryboat crosses the Logone River
between Yagoua and Bongor. From Bongor roads run to northern and southern
Chad.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The proposed project would provide a controlled water supply for
the Irrigation of 4,300 ha. Project works are described in detail in Annex 3,
and would consist of:
(a)  reinforcement of the 49 km Logone dike and
improvement of a parallel road;
(b)  construction of the Guerleo intake control
structure;
(c)  construction of four pumping stations;
(d)  rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage
networks to serve 1,300 ha;
(e)  construction of new irrigation and drainage
networks to serve 3,000 ha;



- 6 -
(f) on-farm development works on 3,000 ha; and
(g) construction of a rice mill and storage facilities.
The project would also finance the purchase of farm machinery, and expansion
of the management and extension services offered by SENRY (para. 3.06). A
consulting firm would be engaged to assist in the design, construction and
supervision of civil works and on-farm development works.
Project Works
4.02      Dike and Road.  The 49 km Logone dike would be reinforced and
rebuilt to its original height of 1.5 m to 2 m above ground level. The
existing earth road on the inland side of the dike would be widenedl to 8 m.
4.03      Guerleo Intake Control Structure.  An intake control structure
would be constructed at the head of the Guerleo bypass channel to retain
most of the flood waters in the main river channel so that the Guerleo
channel itself could be used as a drain for the project area.
4.04    , Pumping Stations.  Four pumping stations, with a total capacity
of 8.0 m /sec and a lift of 3.5 m would be built to provide irrigation
water from the Logone River for the entire project. Each station would be
equipped with four to five horizontal centrifugal pumps powered by diesel
engines ranging from 35 to 70 hp. One pump on each station would be on
standby.
4.05      Irrigation and Drainage Networks.  Based on soils and topography,
the project was divided into four separate irrigation blocks. These would
include 1,300 ha where existing networks would be rehabilitated (see para
3.06), and 3,000 ha where the networks would be newly constructed. Primary
and secondary open earth canals, drains and farm roads would be constructed
as well as control and water measuring structures, turnouts and culverts.
Because of the low permeability of the soils, canal lining would not be
necessary. An existing natural drain would be enlarged and extended to a
total length of 32 km to drain surplus waters from the project area to the
Guerleo channel by gravity.
4.06      On-farm Development Works.  On-farm development works have been
completed on 1,300 ha of the existing irrigation system. On tlhe 3,000 ha
of newly irrigated lands on-farm development works would be required in-
cluding land clearing and light leveling on 3,000 ha, construction of ter-
tiary canals and drains at intervals of 400 m, field dikes and farm roads
along the drains.
4.07      Rice Mill and Storage Facilities.  A rice mill with a capacity of
10,000 tons of paddy (4 tons/hour) would be built in Yagoua. This mill,
along with the existing SEIfRY mill of 6,000 tons, wculd be able to meet the
estimated milling requirements of the project at full development.



4.08      Taking into account the existing storage capacity of 1,600 tons,
an additional 6,900 tons capacity would be needed to meet the estimated
yearly peak storage requirement of 8,500 tons. Therefore, two buildings,
with a capacity of 3,000 tons each, for bulk storage of paddy, would be
constructed adjoining the rice mill and three smaller storage buildings
(300 tons each) would be erected at the paddy collection centers in the
project area.
Logone Water Agreement
4.09      In August 1970 Cameroon and Chad signed a water agreement on
the Logone River concerning the rise in flood water levels and permissible
dry-season use, resulting from projects completed or under consideration in
each country. For the SPERY project, the agreement (a) limits the permissible
rise of flood water levels in the Logone River (as a result of closing the
Guerleo by-pass channel) to 15 cm for floods of 100 year frequency and (b)
limits pumping from the Logone River to 5 m3/sec in the January-April period
and to 10 m3/sec during December and May.
4.10      The SEMRY project, as designed, complies in all points with the
articles of the Logone water agreement, including the change in flooding
conditions it would bring about on the Chad side of the river. Although
the agreement is valid for only ten years, the Government of Cameroon has
agreed not to carry out any works on the Logone River which might have an
adverse affect on agricultural development in the project area, whereas the
Government of Chad has signed a letter of understanding that for a period of
fortv years from the date of the agreement it would not take any measures
.1hat would interfere with the successful carrying out of the project, unless
it has obtained the prior consent of the Cameroon Government.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.11      The project would derive its entire water supply from the Logone
River, by gravity during high water and by pumping during low water. Reli-
able flow measurements for the Logone River, available for 22 years, show
that the high water sta e runs from mid-August to October, with an average
maximum flow of 2,000 m3/sec and peak floods of 2,600 m3/sec. Thereafter,
the flow gradually subsides to reach its low stages in March-April with a
minimum discharge of 43 m3/sec.
4.12      All water requirements for dry-season rice would be supplied by
pumping from December to April. Pre-irrigation for the wet-season crop
would start in April and continue through July to supplement rainfall de-
ficiencies. As soon as sufficiently high water stages are reached (mid-
August), pumping would be discontinued and irrigation provided by gravity
until harvest time (October). Details are given in Annex 4.
4.13      Available water supply and quality are adequate for irrigation
purposes. Anticipated project water demand would, at all times, remain
substantially below the limits set in the Logone Water Agreement; maximum
dry-season requirements would be in April at a start of 3.9 m3/sec, with



- 8 -
peak irrigation requirements occurring in June with 7.0 m /sec (see para
4.09).
Engineering Design and Construction Schedule
4.14      Detailed designs have been prepared for the dike, road, Guerleo
structure, conveyance canals and nain drain on the basis of inforinarion ob-
tained in field surveys. For the irrigation networks only preliminary
designs have been completed but they are adequate for appraisal. Designs
for the final layout of the distribution system stili have to be made and
would be carried out by consultants.
4.15      The main civil works would start during the 1972/73 dry season and
be completed in the first two dry-season periods. No construction is planned
during the rainy season. On-farm development works would be implemented in
step with civil engineering works over three years. The rice mill and stor-
age buildings would be constructed during the first and second years of the
project to be ready for operation from the third year on. All construction
would be completed by June 1975. To start construction on schedule, consul-
tants would be engaged from February 1972 onwards (see para 5.02). A detailed
construction schedule appears in Annex 5.
Ecology and Health
4.16      The project would not alter the ecological situation.  Bush
clearing would not be required, and the use of pesticides would be limited
by SE,RY to the minimum quantities needed for an adequate pest control
program.
4.17      Schistosomiasis (bilharzia) is the most damaging endemic disease
problem along the Logone river and its tributaries because of its high
prevalence (up to 90%) and its degenerative effects on the human system.
Malaria is also endemic but land leveling and draina-e envisaged under the
project would reduce existing swamps, thereby decreasing breeding grounds.
Mr. A.L. Gram, environmental consultant, visited the project area in June to
review the schistosomiasis problem. His findings are summarized in Annex 6.
According to his report certain features of the project - flood protection -
are expected to have beneficial effects by reducing the transmission of the
disease, while others (paddy fields, main drain with continuous flow) may
have an adverse effect. Mass control measures, however, are not considered
practicable because of the uncertainty of success and their prohibitive cost.
It was agreed during negotiations, that Government would cause its health
services to study closely the development of schistosomiasis in the project
area and adjacent areas and in particular make periodic checks on the
snail population in relation to the number of cases and strains of the disease
contracted in the said areas and shall take such measures, as necessary in
consultation with the IDA, to combat this disease.



-9-
Cost Estimates
4.18      Overall project costs net of import duties are estimated at
US$7.4 million. Estimates for civil works are based on detailed construction
quantities and recent unit prices obtained in neighboring countries under
similar conditions. Cost estimates for the irrigation and drainage networks
were prepared on the basis of unit area costs obtained from detailed layouts
on typical topographical areas of the project. On-farm development costs were
estimated from costs currently experienced in the project area on similar
works. Equipment purchases for on-farm development, rice milling and
mechanical cultivation by SEMRY have been valued at current CIF prices. Since
SEMRY personnel would be engaged primarily in implementing the project over
the next five years, the cost of all SEMRY staff requirements over that period
are included under management and extension services.
4.19      The estimated foreign exchange component of the project is US$4.1
million or 56% of total project costs. This amount was arrived at on the
assumption that all equipment would be imported and that civil work contracts
would be awarded to foreign contractors.  Overall contingencies of 18% have
been allowed: a physical contingency of 15% on all construction items and
on-farm development works was included, and price contingencies ranging
from 4% to 8% per annum to cover increases on construction contracts, salaries
of SEMRY personnel and equipment costs.
4.20      Indirect taxes on materials and services used in the project have
been included in the cost estimates. These have not been listed separately,
it range between 12% and 18% of construction and on-farm development works,
3mounting to CFAF 111 million or about 5% of total project cost.
4.21      A summary of the cost estimates is given below; a detailed break-
down of cost items is presented in Annex 7.
--CFAF (million)---  --US$ (thousands)-- % Foreign
Items                     Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Civil WJorks                  332     304    636  1,193  1,095  2,288        48
On-farm Development            40      176    216    144    633    777       81
Rice Mill and Storage
Facilities                   53      79    132    191    284    475        60
Farm Equipment                  5       99    104      18    356    374      95
Management and Extension
Services                    298     128    426  1,072    460  1,532        30
Consultants                    40      188    228    144    676    820       82
Contingencies:
Physical                   65      50    115    234    180    414        43
Price                      72     127    199    259    457    716        64
Total              905   1,151  2,056  3,255  4,141  7,396         56



- 10 -
Financing
4.22      Project financing would be provided from the following sources:
Foreign   Total
Local Foreign Total Exchange Cost
---US$ (millions)…- -- --------
IDA Credit                   0.5      3.0      3.5      71       47
FAC Contribution             0.2      1.1      1.3      29       18
CCCE Contribution             1.1      -       1.1      -        15
Government Contribution       1.5      -       1.5      -        20
TOTA]                   3.3      4.1      7.4     100      100
4.23      The IDA Credit of CFAF 973 million (US$3.5 million) would finance
about 47% of project cost.  It would cover the estimatedl foreign exchange
costs (US$3.0 million) of civil works, on-farm development, rice mill and
equipment. It would also cover US$0.5 million of local costs on civil works
contracts and on-farm development works.
4.24      The French Government, through FAC, has financed technical
assistance to SEMRY in the past and would continue to do so and expand
it under the project. The FAC grant of CFAF 370 million (US$1.3 million),
or 18% of project costs, would cover consultants' services (US$0.9 million),
and four foreign experts for SEMRY over a four-year period (US$0.4 million).
The Government has obtained assurances from FAC that these funds would be
forthcoming.
4.25      The CCCE contribution of CFAF 303 million (US$1.1 million), or
15% of project cost, would be made as a loan to Government at 3.5% interest,
repayable over 15 years.  Repayment would start immediately on two thirds
of the loan, whereas on the remainder, a five-year grace period would be
applicable. The loan would cover all local personnel expenditures for
extension and research over the first five years of the project. The
Government has obtained assurances from CCCE that these funds would be
forthcoming.
4.26      The Government contribution of CFAF 410 million (US$1.5 million)
or 20% of project costs, would cover remaining local currency expenditures
including all indirect taxes (see para. 4.20).
4.27      Annual expenditures on the project are summarized below.  A break-
down of project expenditures and a quarterly disbursement schedule are given
in Annex 8.



- 1 1 -
Fiscal Years (June-July)
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  Total
-----------------US$ (millions)-------------------
IDA Credit                     1.1       1.6      0.7      0.1       -        3.5
FAC Contribution               0.4       0.5      0.3      0.1        -       1.3
CCCE Contribution              0.7       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      1.1
Government Contribution        0.5       0.8       -       0.1       0.1      1.5
Total Expenditures           2.7       3.0      1.1      0.4       0.2      7.4
SEMRY Financing Arrangements
4.28      The monies invested in the project would be made available to
SEMRY as described below:
Source                    Grant      Equity      Loan       Total
------------US$ Million-----
IDA Credit                 '0.5                   3.0.       3.5
FAC Contribution            1.3                    -         1.3
CCCE Contribution           0.4         0.7        -         1.1
Government Contribution    -            0.7       0.8        1.5
2.2        1.4        3.8        7.4
4.29      From the IDA credit of US$3.5 million, US$3.0 million would be
relent to SEMY at 3.5% interest per annum, repayable over 35 years
including five year grace period.  The remainder of the credit, US$0.5
million, would be passed on as a grant to SEMRY as it would finance the
construction of civil works benefitting areas other than the SENRY project
area. The ratification of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
for relending to SEMRY is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
Procurement
4.30      All equipment with an estimated CIF cost of US$1.3 million (Listed
in Annex 9) and civil works contracts for the construction of the irrigation
system including dike and road (US$2.8 million) and for construction of the
rice mill and storage facilities (US$0.3 million) would be tendered on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts for the construction
of houses, a training center and a repair shop, the total value of which
would not exceed US$155,000 spread over three years, would be tendered local-
ly since the amount involved would not attract international competition.
Procedures for local bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient local
competition. SEMRY, with the assistance of a consulting firm, would be
responsible for the preparation of all contract documents, evaluation of bids
and award of contracts.



- 12 -
4.31      On-farm development works of US$0.4 million would be carried out
by SEMRY on force account with equipment procured under the credit. Experience
has shown that SEMRY can efficiently and satisfactorily carry out such
works and has a permanent staff and some machinery already at its disposal
to use in the project. Part of the newly bought construction equipment
would be used afterwards for maintenance of the irrigation system.
Disbursements
4.32      The proposed IDA credit of USt3.5 million would be disbursed in
three years against the CIF cost of imported equipment (US$1.3 million) and
against a percentage of the cost of all civil works contracts and on-fanr
development works (US$3.7 million). The disbursement percentage is currently
estimated to be 58%. If necessary, this percentage would be adjusted durJng
the term of the project to conform to changes that may develop in the
planning or costs of the project. Savings in any category under the alloca-
tion of proceeds would be made available for overruns in any other category,
Any unused balance of the credit would be cancelled. All disbursements
would be made against statements of payments to contractors or suppliers
certified by consultants and for force-account work carried out by SEMIRY
against the project's audited accounts.
Accounts and Audits
4.33      SEMRY is subject to annual audits by the Office of the Accountant
General. Present auditing procedures are inadequate. Furthermore, SENRY's
accounting system is unsatisfactory and needs to be reorganized. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that SEMRY would (a) complete the
reorganization of its accounting system on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA no later than July 1, 1972; (b) employ independent auditors acceptable
to IDA, which would audit its accounts; and (c) would send the audited
accounts together with auditors' comments to IDA within four months after
the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would rest
with SEMRY which has about 12 years experience in operating a gravity
irrigation system and a rice mill, in carrying out on-farm development works
and in mechanical cultivation with its own equipment. With the assistance
of consultants it would be able to implement the construction of the rice
mill and storage facilities, workshop, houses and utility buildings, and the
procurement of equipment. However, SEMRY does not have on its staff an
engineer who could direct the constultants in stipervisfng civtl works. Asniur--
ances have been obtained that Government wotld mike ;avallanble to S:MItY thle
services of a qualified and experienced engineer (of genle rural) wlho wouldi
be responsible for periodic inspections of the progress of construction of
the project. Technical supervision of all civil work contracts and the



- 13 -
on-farm development works carried out by SEMRY on force account would be
done by the consultants. An organization chart, outlining responsibility
for the implementation of works, is given in Annex 10.
Consultants' Services
5.02      An experienced consulting firm would be engaged by SEMRY on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The employment of such consultants is
a condition of effectiveness of the credit. The consultants would (a)
prepare all topographical surveys, detail designs and tender documents for
civil works contracts, on-farm works and equipment purchases including bid
analysis; (b) supervise on-site the execution of all civil works contracts
and on-farm works; and (c) certify applications for payments and expedite
contractual matters. An outline of the consultants' terms of reference
is presented in Annex 11.
SEMRY Organization and Staffing Requirements
5.03      SEMRY was originally created as a section of the "Secteur
Experimental de Modernisation du Nord" (SEMNORD), a regional organization
covering agricultural development activities in Northern Cameroon. In
February 1971, however, the Government decreed that SEMRY be detached from
SEMNORD and established as an autonomous Government owned corporation under
the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Planning. The decree established
SEMRY as the single landowner of irrigated rice fields bordering the Logone
River (6,100 ha), including all buildings and installations, and guaranteed
the continued right of usufruct to farmers who follow sound farming practices
and deliver their paddy to the authority. It also provides SEMRY with the
necessary power to operate and maintain all hydraulic and road works in the
project area, carry out mechanical cultivation for farmers, supply farmers
with inputs, purchase the paddy produced in the area through cash payments
to farmers and process it in its rice mill. Assurances have been obtained
from Government that any changes in the decree establishing SEMRY would
be enacted only after consultation with IDA.
5.04      SEMRY has currently a total share capital of CFAF 245 million,
divided in 49,000 shares of CFAF 5,000 each, corresponding to the assessed
value of lands and installations. With project implementation, SEMRY's
share capital would increase from CFAF 245 million to CFAF 645 million.
It is a condition of effectiveness of the credit that SEMRY's charter
would be amended to this effect and that an amount of not less than CFAF
100 million would have been paid in.
5.05      SEMRY's sole shareholder is the Government of Cameroon; SEMRY is,
however, authorized to transfer shares to farmers, at the rate of one share
for 1/2 ha of cultivated land, if they meet their obligations for five
consecutive years.  Its application is not retroactive.  This arrangement
would serve as an incentive for better land management and encourage farmers
to take a more direct interest in SEMRY's operations.



- 14 -
5.06      SEMRY is administered by a board of 12 members, of which ten are
appointed by the Government and two elected by the farmers.  Its managing
director is currently a foreign expert appointed by the board with the
approval of the Minister of Planning. A senior official of the Minister
of Planning has been appointed, as Government commissioner to SEMRY, to
provide oirerall policy guidance and with veto power on any decisions of
the board.
5.07      SEMRY, with a total staff of 2`hU  consists of four technical depart--
ments: on-farm development and land preparation, the repairshop, the rice
mill and extension. These are headed by foreign experts. All departments
perform their functions adequately, but local management personnel is not
available. Under the project, SEMRY would create new departments to deal
with operation and maintenance, and accounting services, and employ a
farmers' training officer. The total staff including permanent and temporary
employees would reach 400, this being justified by the intensity of the
operation and the extent of services provided to farmers. In-service training
wiould continue to be provided to all local personnel.
5.08      Government, as well as SEMRY, is anxious to replace foreign experts
t7ith nationals, but due to the scarcity of local qualified and experienced
personnel this cannot be done in the immediate future without endangering thie
Vdality of work. Assurances have been obtained that (a) positions presently
occu'pied by foreign experts would continue to be so; (b) three more foreign
experts would be employed, one to be in charge of finance and administration,
one to direct operation and maintenance, and one to be in charge of farmer's
training; (c) within three years after project commencement, Government
would appoint Cameroonian assistants to work with all foreign experts and
be ttained by them; and (d) the Government would replace the foreign
experts With local personnel when justified by their performance and in
agreement with IDA. A schedule of the present and projected personnel
development is drawn in Annex 12. Assurances have also been obtained that
SEMRY 0o6ld conduct its operations under competent management acceptable to
IDA, assisted by an adequate number of experienced staff, and would provide,
for v period of not less than ten years, technical services to farmers at a
level satisfactory to IDA.
TQpk4 u.esseatoh .Station
5.09      The Research station would continue to conduct research for wet and
dry seas6n rice crops on variety, fertilizer, farm equipment, pesticides and
i'rkigation. It would also dndertake seed multiplication. These activities
would be carried out under the direction of foreign experts for about two
years 4fter which local staff, which should by then have been adequately
traint'd, will take over.  Details are given in Annex 13.
Agrtcuftuitg Inpu.ts and Credits
5.10      SEMRY operates a supervised credit program in the area.  Services
and inputs are given to farmers in kidd and their cost recovered through
sales of rice.  With the project, however, annu-I credit requirements for



- 15 -
such inputs and paddy purchased would grow from about CFAF 45 million to
about CFAF 80 million, and SEMRY would have to borrow funds to meet these
needs. At present, SEMRY borrows from Cameroon banking institutions to
finance its operation and it is expected that these banks would be able to
cover a major part of the increased credit requirements. Assurances
however, have been obtained that any unmet short term credit requirements
of SPRY would be covered by Government. It is expected that by the end
of the construction period SEMRY would be able to finance these credit
requirements through its own internally generated funds.
Operation and Maintenance
5.11      SEMRY would be in charge of operation and maintenance of all proj-
ect facilities and adequate staff, equipment and workshop facilities for
such work would be provided under the project. Cost for such services, at
full development, is estimated at CFAF 41.4 million per annum, or CFAF 7,200
(US$26) per cropped ha. This includes operation of the pumps, amortization
of equipment and all personnel costs related to Operation and Maintenance.
Details are given in Annex 14. Assurances have been obtained from Covernment
that SEMRY would adequately maintain its equipment and fixed assets.
Recovery of Costs
5.12      Monies invested in the project would be recovered (a) from net
surpluses generated in SEMRY's operations througlh the difference between
the sale price of rice and cash payments for paddy to farmers (para 6.08) -
tihese surpluses amount to CFAF 1,933 million over the life of the project -
and (b) from sales tax revenues on incremental rice production (para 6.09),
amounting to CFAF 869 million over the same period.
5.13      Direct investments in the project subject to recovery are estimated
at CFAF 1,431 million (US$5.2 million). This amount excludes the proportion
of civil works Investments benefitting areas other than the project area
(CFAF 152 million), foreign personnel and consultant expenditures which
are paid for by the FAC grant (CFAF 370 million), and the cost of extension
services and research personnel (CFAF 103 million). With total recoveries
amounting to CFAF 2,802 million (para 5.12), all direct investments in the
project would be recovered at 2% interest.
5.14      In order to measure the subsidy element, the full project cost
including operation and maintenance expenditures, as well as all project
revenues including 0 and M charges were discounted by 9% over 40 years.
The calculation shows that the present worth of the Government subsidy to
project beneficiaries amounts to CFAF 1,053 million; the revenues cover
about 50% of the costs.
5.15      The recovery rate of capital costs as proposed is considered
reasonable because, despite the expected substantial increase in farmers'
income (para 6.08), the projected income per capita, assuming a family of
seven persons and the present level of subsistence production, would reach
about US$60 by 1980, well below present GDP income per capita of US$145.



- 16 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND OPERATING RETURNS
Production
6.01      Under the project paddy yields are expected to increase from the
present level of 1.2 ton/ha to 3 ton/ha in the sixth year of cropping both for
wet and dry-season crops. Yields of that order have been obtained or ex-
ceeded on project lands which have comparable facilities of irrigation and
drainage (para 3.07). About 1,500 ha would be double cropped; this con-
servative assumption was made because the dry-season crop is new in the
project area. Full development in terms of both yields and cropped area is
expected in the 10th year after commencement of the project. Total paddy
production would reach about 17,000 tons. Details on crop area, yields and
production are given in Annex 15.
6.02      Population growth in Cameroon urban centers, where most of the
demand for rice is concentrated, is around 7% per year. Given this population
growth rate and the expected increase in per capita income, the demand for
rice in the country would reach about 38,000 tons per annum by 1980 or
21,000 tons above the present level. The projected increase in production
from the project would only equal about one-quarter of the future domestic
requirements and should therefore find a ready market, especially since there
is no major rice project planned elsewhere in Cameroon for the near future.
6.03      In addition to the domestic market, there are small export markets
in Chad, Central African Republic and Northern Nigeria, where about 1,200
tons of SEMRY rice were sold in 1969 and some 800 tons in 1970. Demand
for rice in these countries is also increasing and their domestic production
is not expected to rise correspondingly. SEMRY's favorable location with
respect to these markets entails lower transportation costs and, hence, a
higher incentive for private traders to export. It has therefore been
assumed that at full development 80% of incremental production would be sold
on the domestic market, whereas 20% woul(d be exported.  Deman.d projectiOns
are discussed in Anniex 16.
Prices
6.04      SEMRY currently sells its rice to private traders at an ex-mill
price of CFAF 47,000 (US$169) per ton for standard rice (20-25% brokens) and
CFAF 35,000 (US$126) per ton for broken rice. The financial estimates of
SEMRY and farmers' benefits computation assume that the present level of
prices would continue under the project.
b.(05     Thie Camerooni rice market is protected bv duties and taxes on
imlported rice amounting to 43% of the CIF value Douala, which enable SE?RY
to compete with imported rice on the Yaounde market at the present price
levels. If duties andi taxes are excluded, however, and if expected world
market prices for rice are taken into account (JS$.1()r/ton an(d US$80/toxn tor



- 17 -
standard and broken rice respectively in 1980), SEMRY's ex-mill prices would
decline to CFAF 35,800/ton and CFAF 37,170/ton respectively. The latter
has been used in evaluating the project's return to the economy (para 7.02).
Details of the present price structure and future price projections are shown
in Annex 16.
Farmers' Benefits
6.06      Farmers are required to deliver all the paddy to SEMRY at the
price of CFAF 16 per kg. A deduction is made for the cost of seeds and
mechanical cultivation and the average net cash payment to farmers currently
amounts to CFAF 11.3 per kg. No private traders in paddy are allowed in
the area and no difficulty is experienced in recovery of costs.
6.07      Under the project, SEMRY would allocate paddy lands among 2,800
families, including 1,600 already engaged in rice growing. Each family
would get about 1.5 ha of irrigated paddy lands, of which 0.5 ha would
be double cropped, compared to 0.8 ha of paddy lands, presently single
cropped.  In addition, each family would continue to farm about 2.2 ha
outside the project area for subsistence cropping.
6.08      With the project, the net cash payment to farmers would be reduced
from CFAF 11.3 to CFAF 10.0 per kg. of paddy.  This would enable SEMRY to retover
all field operating costs including annual operation and maintenance of
the irrigation network, as well as the cost of handling, milling and overheads,
with no change in the current ex-mill price of rice (para 6.04). It would
also leave a sufficient margin to SEMRY to repay Government loans, as
illustrated in SEMRY's financial analysis, presented in Annex 17. Incentive
for paddy growing would be maintained since the net income of farmers would
substantially increase from larger cropped area and higher yields. Farm
budgets are presented in Annex 18 and summarized below:
/1
Without Project      With Project-
Paddy area, ha                        0.80/2              2.07
Paddy yields, ton/ha                  1.30 -              3.00
Total Production of Paddy, tons       1.04                6.21
Cash Payments to Farmers, CFAF    11,900                60,960
or US$        43                 219
Cash income from 2.2 ha outside the
project area (sorghum, etc.) US$    24                    24
Total farm family cash income, US$    67                   243
/1   Assuming eacH farmer would get on average 1.54 ha of rice land
of which 0.53 ha would be double cropped (4,300 and 1,500 ha:
2,800 families).
/2   Paddy yields assumed to increase without project from 1.2 to
1.3 ton/ha.



- 18 -
Government Revenues
6.09      The Government imposes on traders a 5% sales tax on all SEMRY
rice sales. The tax is calculated on the basis of SEMRY's ex-mill prices.
Incremental production under the project would result in increased proceeds
from the sales tax, reaching CFAF 24.0 million per annum at full development.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The major benefit of the project would be the additional production
of 10,500 tons of rice annually whicih would cover nearly one-quarter of future
domestic requirements as well as permit expanded exports.  The project woulld
also benefit other areas because of increased flood protection; it would
quadruple thie cash income of 2,800 families presently farminig at a subsistence
level in the project area; and would provide during the dry-season additional
employment opportunities estimated at 17,000 man-days to about 1,000 farm
families not involved in the project but living in the vicinity of the project
area. This is especially important since fishing, the only alternative dry-
season activity, is declining.
7.02      Cameroon's domestic rice market is protected by high import levies
and indirect taxes, some of which follow agreements with EEC member countries
and complicate the analysis of project benefits. To overcome this distortion
ex-mill prices used for rice in the economic analysis were derived from world
market price projections made by the Economics Department of the Bank for 1980.
It was also assumed that 80% of SEMRY's rice production would be sold domestic-
ally, whereas 20% would be exported to neighboring countries.
7.03      The internal economic return, with project life assumed as 40 years,
would be 11%. This includes all costs, except for adjustments in taxes and
subsidies. Hired labor has been costed at current rates of CFAF 150 per
man-day, with family labor costed at zero in view of the absence of othier
employment opportunities. Analysis of farm labor indicates that hired labor
would be needed only about six man-days per farm annually. Details of farm
labor analysis are given in Annex 19.
7.04      The net present worth of foreign exchange earnings, at a discount
rate of 9%, is US$4.6 million; and thie internal foreign exclhange rate is
CFAF 229 to the US$, which is appreciably better than the official exchange
rate of CFAF 278 (Annex 20).
7.05      In order to measure the sensitivity of the project to possible
changes, several alternative assumptions were introduced under which the
area double cropped would take eight years to develop instead of five years,
cost of project works would increase by 10%; current expenditures would in-
crease by 10% and a shadow price of 50% of actual wage rates applied to family
Labor.  On the other hand, the assumption that double cropping would develop
in eight years on 2,500 ha instead of on 1,500 ha under the impact of SEMRY's
extension services, and prices of rice increase by 10% were also tested and(
results show that the rate of return would vary between 9.0% and 13.6Z.



- 19 -
Calculations of the economic analysis are shown in Annex 20.
7.06      In summary, the project is a sound one because rice can be produced
in Cameroon at economic costs comparable to those prevailing internationally;
it fits well into Cameroon's strategy for encouraging import substitution
and expanded exports; and it will provide considerable employment for small
farmers in an area where other opportunities are declining.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      A letter of understanding was signed by the Government of Chad,
stating that it would not take any measures that would interfere with the
successful carrying out of the project for a period of forty years after
the date of signing the Logone water agreement, unless it has obtained the
prior consent of the Cameroon Government (para 4.10).
8.02      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) no works would be carried out on the Logone River that
might adversely affect agricultural development in the
project area (para 4.10);
(b) in addition to presently occupied foreign personnel, SEMRY
would appoint three more foreign experts to management
positions (para 5.08);
(c) within 3 years after project commencement the Government
would appoint Cameroonian assistants to work with all foreign
experts and be trained by them (para 5.08).
8.(3      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement of the FAC grant (para 4.24);
(b) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement of the CCCE loan (para 4.25);
(c) the ratification of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory
to IDA for relending to SEMRY (para 4.29);
(d) the employment of consultants by SEMRY on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para 5.02); and
(e)  the amendment of SEMRY's charter so as to increase the amount of
its authorized capital to CFAF 645 million, of which not less
than CFAF 100 million would have been paid in (para 5.04).



- 20 -
8.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$3.5 million equivalent.
December 29, 1971



CAMEROON
SEMIRY RICE PROJECT
Climatic Data
1/                    2/11
Average;-           2Average-    Average Evapo-i/
Months    Temperature   Rainfall- 1Humidity   transpiration
Go          mmI        %              m
January         26.6            0        27            164
February        28.9             0       24             177
March           32.3             4       23             219
April           32.6            19       31             212
May             29.8            59       50             207
June            28.0           117       61             163
July            25.8          181        72             138
August          25.5           272       78             128
September       26.4           131       72             135
October         28.7            31       55             179
November        28.3             0       33             177
December        25.9             0       30             161
Average annual  28.2            -         -              -
Total annual      -            814        -           2,060
1/  Yagoua, 30 years, MSL 324 me.
2/  Maroua.



ANNEX 2
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Soils
Salinity Hazard
1.        SEMRY soils are free of excess salts, witlh only the "lHarde"
soil series showing a maximum content of 0.3' of soluble sodilm.  This
corresponds to a much lower conductivity of satturation extract thanTI the
4 millimhos per cm that is accepted as an upper limit for non-saline soils.
Analyses of waters from wells in the project area and from the Logone River
also show low soluble salt content (conductivity In nillimhos per cmr, 100
to 250) and sodium-adsorption ratio (SAR) values (0.0 to 1.5), as preseinted
in Annex 4.  Salinity hazard from irrigation or groundwater is therefore
practically nonexistent.
Alkali Hazard
2.        According to U.S. standards, there are no alkali soils in the
project area, and the "Harde" series, which have a percentage of exchange-
able sodium of 12% with high pH values and a compact or dispersed struc-
ture, have been excluded. Soils with high values of exchangeable sodium
percentages have been found but they never exceed 10n and are present
mostly in the deep soil layers. In view of the low soluble salt content
of the soil solution, the alkali hazard following irrigation is considered
negligible, particularly since good drainage would be provided in the
project.
Abandoned Rice Fields
3.        Some rice fields of the project area are returned to fallow after
being cultivated for a few years so an unfavorable soil evolution cotuld be
suspected.  To check this point, abandoned rice fields and those belonging
to the same irrigability class that are presently cultivated have been
compared. However, neither field examinations nor sample analyses could
yield any pedological differences except that the abandoned fields have
a poorer structure in the surface layer and a tendency to clay dispersion.
The main reasons for abandonment appear to be the development of weeds
after some years under rice cultivation, soil surface compaction due to
cattle overgrazing, irrigation difficulties due to lack of land leveling,
and the fact that only a small percentage of arable lands is in use so
that farmers are able to engage in itinerant cultivation, which is a com-
mon practice in this part of the country.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAME ROON
SEMRY RICF PROJECT
Civil Works
Dike and Road
1.        Proposed works would include the reinforcement of the existing
49 km long dike on the Cameroon side of the Logone, restoring it to its
original height of 1.5 to 2 m above natural ground and providing a crest
width of 3 m and slopes of 2 to 1 on both sides. The free-board allowance
would be 0.60 m for the 10-year flood level and 0.45 m for the hundred-year
flood. Proposed construction quantities for all civil works are presented
in Table 1.
2.        The existing road on the inland side of the dike would be raised
an average of 0.40 m to protect it against high water infiltration and
widened to 8 m. It would secure access to the irrigation blocks and con-
nect Yagoua to the northern part of the plain (Pouss). Between Yagoua and
Maroua, the road would leave the dike and run along a direct course to the
SEMRY installations. A bridge over the Guerleo channel and appropriate
structures for crossing the main conveyance canals would also be built.
Guerleo Intake Control Structure
3.        Located on the Logone dike, the Guerleo structure is intended to
reduce the passage of the Logone flosd waters into the Guerleo channel from
a present peak of 150 m3/sec to 33 m /sec. A weir with fixed opening, a
design discharge of 2.5 m3/sec per linear meter and a free crest of 12 m was
adopted. With a sill elevation at 321.40 m (0.40 m over natural ground),
the maximum discharge, irrespective of flood magnitude, is expected to be
between 27 m3/sec and 33 m3/sec.
4.        Hydraulic calculations, supported by measurements of the Guerleo
levels during actual floods, have shown that the increased drainage capa-
city of the Guerleo channel, secured after the reduction of inflows, would
permit it to be used at all times as the gravity outlet for the main drains
of the project.
Main Drain
5.        An open channel main drain, 32 km long, would be used as main
gravity collector of all primary drains of the project area. Part would
be newly excavated and part would be existing natural channels that had
been deepened and regulated. At appropriate locations, three concrete
livestock crossings, 10 m wide, and seven concrete bridges, 6 m wide,
would be constructed to permit communication with the eastern drv farming
and grazing area.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Pumping Stations
6.        All irrigation requirements during low water stages would be
provided by pumping, while gravity irrigation would be possible from August
15 to the end of October. A study by the consultant to compare costs of
the proposed system with those of an all-gravity water supply alternative
showed that the latter was more costly because of the low slopes involved
for the main conveyance canal (less than 0.15%) and the need of additional
flood protection.
7.        Four pumping stations would be constrLcted (see Map 2), one to
be located at the head of each of four irrigation blocks (para 9). This
plan was adopted after comparative studies of other alternatives proved
them to be more costly. Equipment requirements would be as follows:
Pumping        Net Area      Pumping,1      Capacity of       HP of
Station          (ha)          Sets -    Each Pump (m3/h)   fnine
1              600           4               1,300           35
2            1,200           4               2,500           70
3            1,300           5               2,500           70
4            1,200           4               2,500            70
Total: 4,300
/1   One set at each station would be kept as stand-by.
8.        Pumps would be diesel-driven and of the horizontal centrifugal
type. Total capacity (excluding the stand-by sets), corresponding to a
maximum dynamic head of 3.5 m, would be 8.0 m3/sec, which would provide
sufficient margin over the peak demand anticipated during June of 7.0
m3/sec (Annex 4, para 5) to permit a 21-hour-per-day operation. On an
average, pumps would operate about 2,000 hours a year. All would be in-
stalled in permanent buildings.
Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation and Drainage Networks (1,300 ha)
9.        Based on soil and topography considerations and in order to make
better use of existing networks, the project area would be divided into
four independent irrigation blocks (see Map 2), as follows:
Existing              New
Block        Networks          Construction          Total
-----------------Area in ha--------------
1           600                   -                  600
2           -                   1,200              1,200
3           220                 1,080              1,300
4            480                  720              1,200
Total:   1,300                 3,000             4,300



ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       The existing networks, constructed by SEMRY over the last decade,
consist of conveyance earth canals that supply gravity irrigation to blocks
ranging in size from 30 to 200 ha through intake regulators located in the
Logone dike. In order to integrate these networks with the proposed new
system and connect them to the pump stations, new open-earth primary and
secondary irrigation and drainage canals would be built where necessary.
W4orks would include constnrction of control structures, turnouts, culverts
and farm roads. The existing tertiary system would be maintained with
minor adjustments. On-farm works would not be carried out since present
land leveling is adequate.
Construiction of New Irrigation and Drainage Networks (3,000 ha)
11.       Project works would include the construction of open-earth pri-
mary and( secondary canals and drains, along with necessary water control
structures, turnouts, culverts and farm roads.  Design capacity of the canal
svstem is 2 liters/sec/ha and that of the drainage system 1.5 liters/sec/ha.
For operational purposes, a water measuring module (Neyrpic or equivalent)
would be installed at the head of each primary and secondary canal. Spillways
would be provided at the primary canal crossings of the main drain and at the
ends of all secondary canals; gated pipe outlets would be used for all ter-
tiaries. Sinhon spillways would be placed downstream of all pumping sta-
tions. Design water levels in the canals would permit them to maintain a
minimum of 15 cm of water over the rice field surface.
On-farm Development Works (3,000 ha)
12.       On-farm works would be carried out by SEMRY on force account in
two stages. In the first stage, the land would be cleared, plowed and
roughly planed. Following this, the main networks and farm roads would be
construlcted. In the second stage the tertiary canals along the prevalent
slopes would be constructed at 400 m intervals and irrigating on both sides
with tertiary drains in the intervals. Finally, field dikes perpendicular
to the tertiaries would be constructed at intervals of 100-150 m depending
on the slope and a final planing would be carried out where necessary.
The first stage of on-farm works is scheduled in years 1 and 2 immediately
preceding the construction of main networks. The second stage would be
carried out mostly in years 2 and 3.
Farm Roads
13.       All farm roads would be constructed along the drains by using
material from their excavation. They would be raised 0.4 m above ground
level. The widths proposed are 6 m for roads along primary and secondary
drains, and 4 m along tertiary drains.
December 29, 1971






ANNEX 3
Table 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Construction Quantities for Civil Works
Dike (49 km)                  Fill                          121,000 m3
Road (45 km)                  Excavation                      6,000 m3
Fill                         173,000 m3
Guerl6o Structure             Excavation                        640 m3
Concrete                          510 m3
Main drain (32 km)            Excavation                    350,000 m3
Livestock crossings                 3
Bridges                             7
Pumping stations (N° 4)       Excavation                     11,400 m3
Concrete                        1,450 a3
Gates                              25
Pumping sets 70 hp                 13
Pumping sets 35 hp                  4
Conveyance canals             Excavation                     51,400 m3
from pumping stations       Fill                           15,000 m,3
to irrigation blocks (7.5 km)
Rehabilitation (1,300 ha)
Canals I, II   (21 kn)        Excavation                     20,800  3
Fill                           60,000 m3
Drains II (9 km)              Excavation                     27,600 m3
Farm roads (31 km)            Fill                           74,000 m3
Structures       Units                                           50
New networks (3,000 ha)
Canals I, II (48 km)          Excavation                    129,000 m3
Fill                          286,o000 m3
Drains (79 km) I, II          Excavation                    170,000 m3
Farm roads (116 km)           Fill                          278,000 m3
Structures       Units                                        1,,943
On-farm works (3,000 ha)
Tertiaries (87 km)            Excavation and fill           250,000 m,3
Field drains (90 km) and      Excavation and fill           180,000 m3
Farm roads (215 km)
Field dikes (215 km)          Excavation and fill           215,000 m3






ANNEX 4
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The project would derive its water supply entirely from the
Logone river. The Logone is a major tributary of the Chari river, which it
joins at Fort Lamy, 180 km downstream of the project. Reliable records are
available for the Logone discharges since 1948 (22 years).  Observations
of river levels at Bongor, 18 km upstream of the project, and Katoa, at the
center of the project, are available for 22 and 12 years respectively, and
were usedi to determine the operating levels of the pumping stations and
the sill of the Guerleo structure.
2.        The regime of the Logone river in its lower reaches is character-
ized by high discharges during the rainy season, with maximum flows usually
occurring in September-October and gradually reducing to a seasonal low-
flow period in March-April. Because of considerable channel storage in
the wide major bed of the river (3-15 km) and outflow in bypass channels
upstream of the project, the annual variation in high water levels does not
exceed 15 cm at Katoa and 50 cm at Bongor. Flooding is, however, very
irregular and gravity irrigation at the project site is possible during
an average of 75 days only. The long-term maximum discharge averages about
2,000 m3/sec with a 100-years frequency peak flood of 2,600 m3/sec. The
main seasonal low-flows vary only slightly between Lai and Pouss with a
minimtm of 43 m3/sec for a ten-year dry period.
3.        The peak discharge of the Guerleo bypass corresponding to the
100-vears frequency flood of the Logone was estimated at 150 m3/sec. It
occurs a few days after the Logone flood in October and delays considerably
the drainage of project rice fields. The control structure proposed under
the project would reduce this inflow to 33 m3/sec and would enable the
Guerleo to be used as gravity outlet for the project area.
Wqater Demand
4.        The irrigation water requirements have been calculated by ten-day in-
tervals separately for the single wet season rice crop and the double-cropped
rice, using the Blaney-Criddle and Turc formulae. Effective rainfall for eight
years out of ten has been taken into consideration. Conservative allowances
for pre-irrigation and flooding water have been made. From water level
measurements it was found that gravity irrigation may be provided from
August 15 to end of October.  During the remaining period all demand is
supplied by pumping. Data used in the assessment of irrigation demand are



ANNEX 4
Page  2
presented in Table I. Irrigation water requirements. by 10-dlay intervals,
are presented in Table 2.  Gross annual pumning requftrements at full develop-
ment are estimated at about 61 million m3. Per ha of irrigated rice, thev
would be:
For a single crop -- wet season             10,100 m3
For two crops:    -- wet season              5,400 m3 1/
-- dry season            16,600 m3
5.        The maximun gross irrigation requirements occur during thc list
ten days of June with 7.0 m3/sec.  This corresponds to a continuous dfschlr.e
of 1.65 1/sec/ha.  The design capacity provided for Dnmp stations anti c;n1nh;
of 2 l/sec/ha exceeds by an ample margin the above demand.
6.        Water rights assigned to the SEMRY project by the 1971 Logone
water agreement between Cameroon and Chad, provide for 5 m3/sec from Janua;ry
to April and 10 m3/sec for the months of December and May. In all instances,
the proposed demand is well below the agreed limits. The peak requirements
for dry season crops occur during the first 10 days of April, with 3.9
m3/sec. By extending the pre-irrigation period in February, the existing
rights ultimately would permit double-cropping over about 2,50n ha or (,O.,
of the project area.
Water Quality
7.        The quality of water from wells in the project area and from
the Logone river is excellent, as shown below:
Water from wells            Logone waters
Sample no                         1      2     3       1        2       3      4
Date                                                 5/5/58   9/17   10/5   11/5
Conductivity in millimhos/cm   110   250   244              less than 100
Ca++ meq/1                       0.8   0.8   0.8    0.32    0.20   0.18   0.22
Mg++ meq/1                       0.1   0.6   0.8    0.14    0.13   0.19   0.17
Ka+  meq/1                        -      -     -      0.06    0.04   0.04   0.04
Na++ meq/1                        1.0   0.9   0.9    0.53    0.29   0.30   0.31
SAR                              1.5   1.1   1.0    1.1        0.70   0.60   0.70
1/   Makes use of residual moisture-from dry-season crop for land preparation
and commences irrigation 15 days later.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 4
CAMEROON                              Table 1
SEKRY RICE PROJECT
Data Used in Assessment of Irrigation Demand
1.   Overall irrigation efficiency from pumping stations on the river : 65 %
2.   Gravity irrigation from river : Aug. 15 to Oct. 30
3. Net irrigation requirements in m3/ha
Single Rice Crop             Double Cropping
wet season           wet season   dry season
Pre-irrigation before plowing
Period                          April - May
Volume                             2,300
Pre-irrigation before sowing
Period : 10 days before         May - June             June - July Dec. - Jan.
Volume                             2,000                 1,500       1,500
Sowing period                             June 1                  June 15      Dec. 15
July 15                 July 15     Jan. 15
Flooding after sowing
Period : 7 days after           June - July               July        January
Volume                             1,000                 1,000        1,000
Comnencing irrigation
Period : 15 days after sowing  June - July                July         January
Vol'ize                            1,000                 1,000        1,000
To the above is added, for each 10-day interval, 1/ off
the consumptive use, minus effective rainfall expressed in m_/haLI
April          2,150 -        0  =  2,150
May            1,750 -      450  =  1,300
June           1,700 -     980  =    720
July           1,550 -   1,610  =      60 (surplus)
August         1,450 -   2,070  =    620 (surplus)
September      1,650 -   1,210  =    440
October        1,750 -      150  =  1,600
November       1,800 -        0  =  1,800
December       1,900 -        0  =  1,900
January        2,000 -        0  =  2,000
February       2,000 -        0  =  2,000
March          2,200 -        0  =  2,200
End of irrigation
Period': 20 days before harvest Sept. 10Sert 25                        April 10
Oct.  23                 Oct. 23      May   10
/ Consumptive use was calculated on the basis of Blaney-CriddiLe and Turc formulae;
effective rainfall was taken for 8 years out of 10.



CAMERDOON
SENRY RICE PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements by 10-Day Intervals
(in million m3)
April        May         June         July       August    September      October      November      D           January    February         March
P UM P I N G                               GRAVITY IRIGLTION                           P U M P I N G
1. Single rice crop wet season: 2,800 ha
- Pre-irrigation for plowing                   1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1
- Pre-irrigation for sowing                                         1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 0.7
s o w  i n
- Flooding after sowing                                                 0.2 o.6 o.6 0.6 0.6 0.2
- Irrigation requirementsll                                                 0.4 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.6             0.4 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.14 0.
endin irrigation
2. Double cropping wet season: 1.500 ha
- Pre-irrigation for sowing                                             0.5 0.8 0.610.2
- Flooding after sowing                                                         0 4 0.5 0.5 0.1
- Irrigation Requirements                                                           0.5 0.5 0.5              0.2 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.1
ending irrig.
3. Dry season: 1.500 ha
- Pre-irrigation for sowing                                                                                                                        0.4 0.8 0.8 0.3
a5 o w lng
- Flooding after sowing                                                                                                                                     0.4 0.5 0.5 0.1
- Irrigation Requirements-                     1.1 0.0 0.5 0.1                                                                                                  0.8 1 .2 1.5 1 .0 1 .0 1 .0 1  .1 1 .1 1 .1
Ending irrig.
Total Irrigation Requirements
- Gravity  net                                                                                               o.6 0.7 0.5 1.2 0.7 0.2
gross                                                                                            0.9 1.1 0.8 1.8 l.1 0.3
- Pumping  net                                2.2 2.0 1.6 1.2 1.1 2.3 1.9 3.0 3.9 3.1 2.2 1.4                                                      0.4 o.8 1.2 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 1 .1
gross                              3.4 3.1 2.5  1.9 1.7 3.5 2.9 4.6 6.0 4.8 3.4 2.2                                                     0.6 1.2 1.8 2.5 2.6 2.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.7
Gross requirements m3/sec                      3.9 3.6 2.9 2.2 2.0 4.1 3.4 5.3 7.0 5.6 3.9 2.5               1.0 1.3 0.9 2.1 1.3 o.4                0.7 1.4 2.1 2-9 3.0 2.9 1.7 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.0 2.0
1/  1,000 m3/ha of water on surface + consumptive iater use - effective rainfall (Data on Table 1)



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
WORK ITEM                                                                                                                  5
J FMAMJ J A S O N D  J F M A M J J A S O  N D J F M AM J  J A S O N D J F M A M  J J A S O  N D
RAIN                      RAIN                        RAIN                         RAIN
A. DIKE AND ROAD                                              m RA.
B.  GUERLEO FLOOD - STRUCTURE
C. MAIN DRAINmm m    mu
I 4                    2      3
D. PUMPING STATIONS NO. 1 to 4
1, 030 ha          ~~~270 ha
E. REHABILITATION NETWORKS 1,300 ha                                  0  ha
40 ho             2,600ha
F.  N EW N ETWO R KS 3, 000 ha
G. ON - FARM WORKS 3,000 ha                                 _1,500 ha                     1,500 ha
CLEARING - PLANING                                                             
TERTIARI ES                                                   10            _ I,100ha |,500 ha
H. RICE -MILL AND STORAGE                                        m     .       _X
IDi  (2) z
IBRD-5651 (2R)






ANNEX 6
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Evaluation of Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia) Problem
1.        Prevalence of Schistosomiasis.  On the basis of limited population
testing and available information the prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis
is about 50% for the Department of Mayo-Danai where the SEMRY project is lo-
cated and possibly 90% in the immediate vicinity of the project. Intestinal
schistosomiasis also exists, but at a much lower rate, possibly 3%.
2.        Health Services.  Schistosomiasis is regarded by the local medical
authorities as the most damaging endemic disease problem of the area because
of its high prevalence and its degenerative effect on the human system.
Malaria, with an equal or greater prevalence, is considered benign and is
treated only in conjunction with other infections. Schistosomiasis is treated
at the Departmental hospital in Yagoua and at four dispensaries on an indi-
vidual patient basis. Because of the lack of facilities, however, only about
one-lhalf of the patents exhibiting symptoms are treated.
3.        Snail Survey.  Field studies into the snail vector were carried
out in June 1971 by the consultant along the main watercourses within and
in the vicinity of the project. No snails were found, due undoubtedly to
the dry-season conditions. Vector snails can be expected to appear when the
water levels have risen and water begins to flow.
4.        Expected Changes Due to the Project.  The restriction of water flow
in the Guerleo channel during the wet season, provided under the project, is
expected to diminish schistosomiasis transmission by reducing the extent of
snail habitats for that part of the year.  Increased spread of schistosomiasis
may comne about if the paddy fields should prove to be snail habitats. The
danger is somewhat minimized, however, as the snails are intolerant of highly
turbid waters. An undesirable aspect of the project is that with double-
cropping of rice, the flow in the SEMRY main drain would be continuous
throughout most of the year and the snail population would become permanent,
rather than being decimated in the dry season.
5.        Possible Control MIeasures.  As a prerequisite to any control mea-
sures, the geographical distribution of disease prevalence in the treated
area should be periodically assessed through sample population surveys.
Control measures which might be undertaken, either to compensate for in-
creased schistosomiasis incidence due to the project or as an adjunct project
benefit, include mass chemotherapeutic treatment of the affected population,
selective mollusciding of the vector, and public education. The disease
prevalence might be reduced to 10% or less. For this method to be effective,
it would have to be applied over an area somewhat larger than the project
area (because of mobility of population). This fact, together with the



ANNEX 6
Page 2
high rate of human infection would require a large otitlay during the initial
years. Since good results can hardly be assured beforehand and because they
depend essentially on achieving a high rate of cure, such a treatment cam-
paign is considered to be not practicable.
6.        Recommendations.  In light of the above, the following recommenda-
tions are proposed:
(a) arrangements should be made with the federal Ministry of
Health to conduct a disease prevalence and snail popula-
tion survey throughout the project area on a semi-annual
basis and maintain records of the vector snail population
distribution; and
(b)  if it should appear that irrigation is actually increasing
bilharzia transmission, selective applications of mollus-
cicide would be undertaken for snail control.
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 7
Table 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
CFAF (million)                      US$ ('000)
Local   Foreign      Total         Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                      332      304         636          1,193    1,095    2,288
Dike and Road                     63       48         111            226       173      399
Guerleo Structure                 15         6         21             54        22       76
Main Drain                        55        29         84            198       104      302
Subtotal   133        83         216           478       299       777
Pumping Stations
Civil Works                     25       25          50             90       90       180
Equipment                        2       50          52              7      180       187
Subtotal    27        75         102             97      270       367
Rehabilitation Networks
Irrigation Canals               14       11          25             50       40        90
Drainage  Canals                 4        3           7             14        11       25
Farm Roads                       8        7          15             29        25       54
Structures                       2        6           8              7        22       29
Subtotal    28        27          55            100       98       198
New Networks
Irrigation Canals               61       46         107            220      165       385
Drainage Canals                 34       25          59            122       90       212
Farm Roads                      21       18          39             75       65       140
Structures                      28       30          58            101      108       209
Subtotal   144       119         263           518       428       946
On-farm Development Works       40      176         216            144      633       777
Purchase of Equipment              7      131         138             25      471       496
Salaries                          10       -           10             36        -        36
Fuel, Oil                         11       31          42             40       112      152
Repairs                            3        14         17             11        50       61
Insurance, Miscellaneous           9       -            9             32        -        32
Rice Mill, Storage Facilities   53         79                        191       284      475
Purchase of Equipment              6        54         60             22       194      216
Construction of Rice Mill       13        7          20             47        25       72
Construction of Storage
Buildings                    34       18          52            122       65       187
(Cont'd)
December 3, 1.971



ANNEX 7
Table 2
Cost Estimates (Cont'd)
CFAF  (million)                    US$ ('000)
Loc'al   Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Farm Equipment                      5       99         104           18        356      374
Management and Extension
Services                       298       128        426         1.072        460    1,532
Personnel Expenditures           270        99         369          971        356    1,327
Repair  Shop Equipment,Vehicles   2         20          22            7         72       79
Housing, Utility Buildings         26        9          35           94         32       126
Consultants                       40       188         228          144        676      820
Contingencies                    137       177         314          493        637    1,130
Construction Costs 1/
Physical 15%                  65        50        115           234        180      414
Price 2/                      34        33         67           122        119      241
Equipment
Price 8%/year                  3        53         56            11        191      202
Personnel Expenditures
Price  3/                     34        30         64           122        108      230
Consultants
Price 4/                       1        11         12             4         39       43
Total Physical               (65)      (50)      (115)         (234)      (180)    (414)
Tota.l Price                 (72)    (127)       (199)         (259)      (457)    (716)
GRAND  TOTAL                  905    1,151       2,056         3,255      4,141    7,396
1/  Civil Works + On-farm Works not including equipment.
2/  5% /year on local costs, 6%/year on foreign costs.
3|  4% /year on Semry personnel, 5%/year on FAC financtd  Personnel
4/ Calculated on the basis of escalation clause, according to FAC estimates.
December 3, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 1
CAEBROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
1972/73   1973/74    1974/75  1975/76    1976/77   TOTAL
--------          US$ (thousands)------------------------
Equipment
Pumps                                 97        90           -          -          -        187
On-farm Development                  496        -            -          -          -        496
Rice-milling Machinery                -        216           -          -          -        216
Farm Equipment                        -         -           374         -          -        374
Repairshop Equipment, Vehicles         33       46           -          -          -         79
Sub-total                626       352          374         -         --      1,352
Civil Works
Dike and  Road                       399        -            -          -          -        399
Guerleo Intake Structure               76       -            _-                    -          76
Main Drain                           302        -            -          -          -         302
Pumping Stations                      94        86           -          -          -         180
Rehabilitation Networks (1,300ha)  169          29           -          -          -        198
New Networks (3,000 ha)                -       946           -          -          -        946
Rice Mill                             -         72           -          -          -         72
Rice-storage Buildings                50       137           -          -          -        187
Housing, Utility Buildings             50       50           26         -          -         126
Sub-total           1,140    1,320            26         -          -      2,486
On-farm Development Works             94       122           65         -          -         281
Personnel Expenditures               237       284          299        295        212     1,327
Consultants' Services                299       400          121         -          -        820
Contingencies
Physical                         183       217           14         -         -         414
Price                            155       280          173        65         43        716
Sub-total             338       497          187         65        43      1,130
TOTAL               2,734    2,975         1,072        360        255     7,396
in CFAF million                      760       827          298       100         71      2,056
December 3, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 2
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursement at
and Quarter                        End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1972/73
September 30, 1972
December 31, 1972                        400
March 31, 1973                            700
June 30, 1973                           1,100
1973/74
September 30, 1973                     1,400
December 31, 1973                      1,800
March 31, 1974                          2,200
June 30, 1974                           2,700
1974/75
September 30, 1974                     3,000
December 31, 1974                      3,200
March 31, 1975                          3,300
June 30, 1975                           3,400
1975/76
September 30, 1975                     3,500
December 3, 1971



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
List of Equipment
UNIT PRICE                          GRAND
C..I.F. Douala        TOTAL          TOTAL
ITEM                                 QUANTITY               (US$)                (US$ Thousands)
A. Pumps
Centrifugal Pumps with
Diesel Engine (70 hp)             13               11,500                149.5
Centrifugal Pumps with
Diesel Engine (35 hp)              4                7,600                 30.4        179.9
B. Construction Equipment for
On-Farm Development
Crawler Tractors (180 hp)             2              40,600                 81.2
Crawler Tractor  (100 hp)             1              35,000                 35.0
Double Disk Attachment
3.3 m/36" attachment disk           2               6,500                 13.0
3.3 m/32" attachment disk           2               5,000                 10.0
Grader (120 hp)                       7              33,400                233.8
Roller (5 hp)                         3               5,400                 16.2
Dump Trucks (5 tons)                 2                7,200                 14.4
Water Trucks (4 tons)                 2               7,200                 14.4
Hand Tools                            -                 -                    9.6
SUBTOTAL                                                       427.6
Spare Parts: 10%                      -                 -                   42.8        470.4
C. Farm Equipment
Crawler Tractors, 90-100 hp           5              35,000                175.0
Wheel Tractors, 45-50 hp              2               5,200                 10.4
Disc Plows (heavy)                    5               2,640                 13.2
Disc Plow (medium)                    1               1,000                  1.0
Disk Harrows (heavy)                  9               2,640                 23.8
Disk Harrows (medium)                 2               1,750                  3.5
Threshers (engines included)         20               3,940                 78.8
Trailers                              3                 920                  2.8
Seeders (hand driven)              481                   26                 12.5
Hand Sprayers                       122                  21                  2.6
SUBTOTAL                                                       323.6
Spare Parts: 10%                      -                 -                   32.4        356.0
D. Rice Milling Equipment
Equipment (including
installation)         -                  -                 115.8
Generators                            -                 -                   25.2
Automatic Paddy Transport System   -                    -                   36.0
SUBTOTAL                                                       177,0
Spare Parts: 10%                                                            17.7        194.7
E. Repair Shop Equipment, Vehicles
Generating Equipment                  1               7,900                  7.9
Lathe                                 1               8,300                  8.3
Welding Equipment                     1               3,600                  3.6
Hydraulic Press (70 tons)             1               1,100                  1.1
Miscellaneous Equipment               -                 -                    4.2
Dump Trucks (3 tons)                  2               6,500                 13.0
Dump Trucks (9 tons)                  1              10,800                 10.8
Four-Wheel-Drive                      3               4,000                 12.0
Small Cars                            2               2,150                  4.3
SUBTOTAL                                                        65.2
Spare Parts: 10%                                                             6.5         71.7
GRAND TOTAL                                                          27
December 3, 1971



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Organization Chart
FEDERAL MINISTER
OF PLANNING
GOVERNMENT
COMMISSIONER
TO SEMRY                    u
SEMRY       |
3BOARD OF DIRECTORS              I
SEMRY
DIRECTOR GENERAL
|~~~~~~~~~~~
FINANCE AND     _             l"_1  RURAL ENGINEER
AOMINISTRATION
OPERATION AND                          CONSULTING FIRM
MAINTENANCE       f
LAND PREPARATION
O °N-FAR M WOR K S
REPAIRS WORKSHOP
R ICE M ILL_
EXTENS ION_
RESEARCH STATION
____________________                              World Bank-5948(R)



ANNEX 11
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
Terms of Reference
1.        The Consulting engineering firm would be required to work under
the general direction of SEMRY, the project authority that would be in charge
of project implementation. The Consultant would agree to accept full
responsibility for the technical adequacy and quality of engineering and
other services as described hereinafter. This responsibility would cover
all investigations and designs already performed and to be performed.
2.        The scope of work to be done by Consultants would include:
(a) Preparation of design drawings and contract documents for the
civil works described in the feasibility study prepared by
the consultants BDPA, SOGETHA and IRAT as they were modified
in the present IDA appraisal report, including additional
studies or investigations if and as required;
(b) Preparation of invitations to bid on all civil work con-
tracts, including prequalification of bidders if necessary,
with bid analysis and recommendations to SEMRY on award of
contracts following the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
(c) Technical supervision of all construction works including
recommendations to SEMRY regarding the acceptance of com-
pleted works;
(d) Preparation of specifications, bidding documents and
contract forms including bid analyses for all equipment
and spare parts to be purchased under the project (earth-
moving equipment for on-farm works, farm machinery, pumps,
rice mill) with the assistance of SEMRY and following the
"Guidelines for Procurement" as above;
(e) Technical supervision of on-farm development works to be
carried out on force-account by SEMRY including all
necessary surveying and the provision of two specialized
foremen for the actual direction of the works and the in-
service training of SEMRY operators; and



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(f) Technical supervision of the construction of rice mill
and storage facilities and of the construction of houses,
training center and repair shop to be tendered locally.
3.        The Consultant would also be responsible for the following:
(a) Assistance to SEMRY in the preparation of reports and
documents related to the progress of construction and
financing of all works supervised by the Consultant as
required by IDA; and
(b) The Consultant would certify all withdrawal applications
from the credit account.
Time Schedule
4.        The services described above would be completed by the Consultant
in about four years (1972-1975). Design drawings and contract documents
for the main civil works contract should be completed in early 1972 in time
to permit commencement of works in November 1972. Early preparation of the
specifications and bidding documents for the purchase of construction
equipment for on-farm works is also required since, according to the proposed
work schedule, this equipment should be on site by November 1972.
Personnel
5.        Expected staff requirements of the Consultant, with working
schedule expressed in man/months, is presented below:
No.   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   Total
Project Manager
Engineer                 1        2         9          9          3        23
Planning Engineer          1        6         10         6          -         22
Chief Surveyor             1        9         9          9          -         27
Surveyors                  2        9         18        18          9         54
Supervision Engineer       1        -          9         9          -         18
Foremen                    2        -         9         18         18         45
Cameroonian Technical
Assistants and Admin.   5-10       45         90        90         45        270
Personnel
December 29, 1971



CAMEROON                                                ANNEX 12
SEMRY RICE PROJECT                                           Table 1
SEMRY PERSONNEL
Unit Cost and Scheduled Development
Unit Cost           Situation         Situation with Project
(CFAF  '000/year),  before project  72-73   73-74   74-75   75-76  76-77
(1971-1972)
__--_-------- N U M BER S --------------------
General Management
Managing Director (E)*                     7,000                1             1        1       1        1      _
Deputy Director                            1,400                -             -       -        1        1      1
Financial and Admin. Director (E)*         7,000                -             1       1        1       1       -
Assistant Admin. Officer                   1,000                _             -        -       1        1      1
Accounting Assistant                         300                1             2        2       2        2      2
Clerks                                       300                4             6       6        6        6      6
Secretaries                                  300                t             5        5       5       5       5
On-Farm Development
Foremen                                        1/               _             2       2        2        _      _
Engine Operators                             200                8            10      10       10        8      -
Assistant Operators                           60                7            10       10      10        8      -
Operation, Maintenance
'Irrigation Engineer (E)*                7,400                  -             -       1        1        1      -
Assistant Engineers                       1,200                 -             -        -       1        2      2
Engine Operators                            200                 2             2       5        7        9      9
Ditch Riders                                 50(8 months/year) 9             15      25       35      35      35
Pumping Station Mechanics                    85                 -             2        2       4        4      4
Assistant Mechanics                          55                 -             2        2       4        4      4
Land Preparation
Foreman  (E)                              2,200                 1             1        1       1        1      1
Assistant Foreman                           800                 _             -        -       1        1      1
Engine Operators                            200                10            14      20       24       28     28
Assistant Operators                          60                10            14       20      24       28     28
Garage Repair Shop
Manager (5)                               2,200                 1             1        1       1        1      1
Assistant Manager                           800                  -            -        -       1        1       1
Mechanics                                    85                 10           13       13      15       15     15
Assistant Mechanics                          55                  6            8        8      10       10     10
Truck Drivers                               215                 4             4       S        5        8      8
Rice Mill
Manager (E)                              2,400                   1            1        1       1        1       1
Assistant Managers                       1,000                   -            1        1       1        1       2
Equipment Operators                        110                 18            18       22      26       30     30
Storage Keepers                             3005 months/year) 35             37      40       42       42     42
Extension Services
Director (E)                            2,200                   1             1       1        1        1      1
Sector Heads                              420                   6             7       9       10       10     10
Technical Assistants                       145                  7             7        9      10       10     10
Field Workers                               95                 35            40      50       65       80     80
Temporary Workers                           20(4 months/year) 48             48      48       50       60     60
Research Program
Research Agronomist (E)                 4,000                   1             1       1        -        -      -
Research Assistant (E)                  2,200                   1             1        1       -        -      _
Research Agronomist                     1,200                   -             -       1        1       1       1
Field  Workers                             900                   3            3        3       3        3      3
Training Officer (E)                    6,800                    -            1        1       1        -      -
I/ Salaries for two foremen are included in cost of consultants.
NOTE:
(E) = foreign expert
(E)*= foreign expert financed by FAC grant.
December 3. 17I



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
SEMRY PERSONNEL : Schedule of Expenditures
(CFAF million)
Without Project 1/   1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-76    1976-77    TOTAL
General Management              8.8                 17.9        17.9      20.3      20,3          6.3     82.7
On-Farm Development             2.0                  2.6         2.6       2.6       2.0          -        9.8
Operation-Maintenance           0.9                  1.4         9.9      12.3      13.9          6.5     44.0
Land Preparation                4.8                  5.8         7.2       9.2      10.3         10.3     42.8
Garage-Repairshop               4.2                  4.6         4.8       5.9       6.5          6.5     28.3
Rice Mill                       5.4                  6.5         7.0       7.5       8.0          9.0     38.0
Extension Services             10.0                 10.9        13.0      15.0      16.7         16.7     72.3
Research Program                8.9                  8.9        10.1       3.9       3.9          3.9     30.7
Training Officer                -                    6.8         6.8       6.8       -            -       20.4
Total                45.0                 65.4       79.3       83.5     81.6         59.2    369.0
Contingencies 2/             _                       6.2        11.9      15.9      18.1        11.8      63.9
45,0                 71.6       91.2       99.4     99.7         71.0    432.9
, _~~ == = =  
of which: FAC Financed         15.9                 25.2        35.9      37.5      29.7          -      128.3
-      Personnel            15.9                 20.8       28.2       28.2     21.4                   98.6
-      Contingencies 3/      -                    4.4         7.7       9.3       8.3         -        29.7
I/ 1971-72
2/  Salary increases 4% per year for Semry personnel.
3/  Salary increases 5% per year for FAC financed personnel and 15% overhead for consulting firm added.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Research Program
1.        The Toukou Experimental Station was established in the project
area in 1952 by the Agricultural Service. From 1957 to 1966, the station
was not in operation. It reopened in 1967, but only in May 1969 was it in a
position to work efficiently.
2.        Presently the Cambodian long grain varieties D52-37 and Neang-
Veng are successfully grown during the wet season; being photosensitive,
they cannot be grown during the dry season. New non-sensitive varieties,
such as Taichung 178, D114H, IR8 and IR22, have been introduced, with promis-
ing yield results. IR8, however, gives a poor quality rice with reduced mar-
ket value in Cameroon. Among the other varieties, D114H is currently the
most promising and would warrant the price premium presently secured by wet
season long grain varieties grown in the area. IR22, recently introduced,
must still be evaluated. The varietal experiments would be continued so
that suitable varieties can be bulked for seed purposes prior to the first
dry-season crop, which will start with the third year of project development.
3.        In addition to identifying suitable varieties, experiments regard-
iilg optimum sowing dates have been carried out. These show that the wet
season crop should be sown in June/July and harvested from mid-October to
mid-November. The dry season crop should be sown from mid-December to mid-
January.to enable harvesting in late May. The recommended planting dates
would shorten the land preparation period before the rainy season. The in-
troduction of threshing machines would be necessary for the dry season crop
to reduce the harvesting time and give more time for land preparation.
4.        An important research study would be the evaluation of the most
appropriate machinery for land preparation. The proposed equipment is
expected to be the optimum equipment for the project and would be subject
to amendments pending the outcome of these studies. Cost allocations for
machinery should be sufficient to meet any possible modifications in
equipment requirements. Crawler tractors are presently used with success
by SEMRY; wheel tractors of 100 HP or more which are less costly and more
easily maintained would appear preferable in future.
5.        Irrigation trials to determine optimum water applications both
for pre-irrigation and during the growing period would also be undertaken.
6.        The experimental station will continue carrying out experiments
with other irrigated crops such as sorghum and soya which could possibly be
grown in the rotation as an alternative to dry season rice. If suitable
crops are identified, they could possibly increase the gross value of farm



ANNEX 13
Page 2
production in the area despite water limitations during the dry season im-
posed by the Logone Agreement, which restricts dry season rice cultivation
to 2,500 ha out of a total of 4,300 ha for the project area.
December 29, 1971



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Schedule of Expenditures
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79          1979/80
Irrigated Areas
Wet season                      1,430       2,800       4,300      4,300       4,300        4,300       4,300       4,300
Dry season                                                150        450         750        1,100       1,500       1,500
Pumping Stations, 0 & M             ---------------------------------------CFAF million --       _--_-----_--___________
Amortization                       -          3.3         6.5         6,5        6.5          6.5         6.5          6.5
Fuel and Oil  1/                  1.8         4.7         7.3        8.1         9.4         10.2        11.1         11.5
Repairs + Insurance                1.7        2.7         4.7        4.7         4.7          4.7         4.7         4.7
Maintenance of Networks 2/
Amortization                       -          1.5         3.0        4.5         4.5          4.5         4.5          4.5
Fuel and Oil  1/                   -          1.4         2.9        3.7         3.7          3.7         3.7          3.7
Repairs + Insurance                -          0.8         1.6        2.3         2.3          2.3         2.3          2.3
Operation of Networks
Personnel  3/                      1.5       11.4        14.6       17.0         7.8 4/       7.8         7.8          7.8
Transportation 3/                  0.1        0.3         0.3        0.4         0.4          0.4         0.4          0.4
5.1       26.1        40.9       47.2        39.3         40.1        41.0         41.4
1/ Including 25% taxes
2/ Maintenance costs include maintenance of dike and road costed from year 73/74 on, at CFAF 1.8 million per year.
3/ Total cost for all sectors from Annex 12 (Table 2) including contingencies.
4/ Reduced by CFAF 7.4 million after replacement of foreign expert by Cameroonian Irrigation Engineer.
December 3, 1971






ANNEX 15
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
1.        The present average yield of wet season paddy is 1.2 ton/ha.
On the rehabilitated lands under controlled irrigation this yield is expected
to increase to 3 tons/ha in six years, due to better land preparation, sowing
in row with hand operated seeders, which allows mechanical weeding between
the rows, application of fertilizers (80 kg of N/ha) and threshing by
portable machines instead of by hand. On the new lands where better land
levelling is achieved the 3 tons/ha would be reached after five years
instead of six.
2.        The dry season crop would be introduced in the third year of the
project and the cultivated area is expected to expand to 1,500 ha in four
vears. This conservative assumption has been made because the dry season
crop is new in the project area. The yield is expected to increase from
2.2 to 3.0 tons/ha in four years. This assumption is based on results
obtained during the current (1971) dry season in the project area where
20 ha cultivated by 40 farmers achieved average yields exceeding 4.0 tons/ha.
Dry season paddy yields exceeded 3.0 tons/ha over 200 ha in the last three
years in a pilot project on the Chad side of the river, at Bongor, under
s:imilar soil and climatic conditions.
3.        Several experiments with different fertilizer applications have
shown a significant response in paddy yields. The proposed application of
80 kg of N/ha would be adequate to produce the expected yields of 3 tons/ha.
4.        Data on expected cropped areas, yields and production are presented
in Table 1.
December 29, 1971






CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Cr pped Area. Yields and Production
(1)        (2)            (3)       (4)        (5)          (6)        (7)          (8)        (9)        (10)
1972/73      1973/74      1974/75    1975/76   1976/77    1977/78    1978/79          1979/80   1980181   1981/82
Cropped Area (cumulative)                    ha         1,430          2,800      4,450       4,750      5,050         5,400       5,800        5,800      5,800      5,800
Rehabilitated lands                                  1,030         1,300       1,300       1,300      1,300         1,300       1,300        1,300      1,300      1,300
New lands                                              400         1,500       3,000       3,000      3,000        3,000       3,000         3,000      3,000      3,000
on which dry season cropping                         -             -           150         450        750        1,100       1,500        1,500      1,500      1,500
Paddy Yields 1/
Rehabilitated lands                     tons/ha         1.5            1.8        2.2         2.5        2.8          3.0
New lands
- wet season crop                                     1.7            2.2        2.6         2.8        3.0
- dry season crop                                     -            - -          2.2         2.5        2.8          3.0
Paddy Production
From rehabilitated lands                  tons       1,545         2,259       2,752       3,169      3,559        3,846       3,900         3,900     3,900      3,900
From new lands
- wet season crop                                    680         2,750       6,010       7,280      8,180        8,700       9,000        9,000      9,000      9,000
- dry season crop                                     -              -         330       1,035      1,830        2,810       3,945        4,230      4,420      4,500
Total Paddy Production                               2,225         5,009       9,092      11,484    13,569        15,356      16,845        17,130    17,320    17,400
Estimated Paddy Production
without the Project 2/                                     1,235  1,610       1,620       1,630      1,640        1,650       1,660         1,6760       1.690 
Incremental Paddy Production                             990         3,399       7,472       9,854    11,929        13,706      15,185        15,460    15,640    15,710
1/ Paddy yields during year 1 apply to the first year of cropping of new areas, etc. For example wet season
paddy yields on new lands during year 2 of the project are 2.2 tons/ha for 400 ha and 1.7 tons/ha for 1,100 ha.
2/ Applies only to rehabilitated lands.  Paddy yields are expected to increase from 1.2 ton/ha to 1.3 ton/ha
in 10 years.                                                                                                                                                            5.'






ANNEX 16
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Marketing and Price Structure
Market Prospects
1.        The urban population in the main cities of Cameroon is growing at
the rate of 7% per annum in Douala and Yaounde, and 4.5% in Garoua. The
per capita consumption of rice in the town is increasing at 5% per annum.
If these same trends continue, by 1980 the annual demand for rice in Douala
and Yaounde would increase from 10,000 tons to 29,000 tons, and in Garoua
from 4,000 to 9,000 tons. The bulk of the additional demand, estimated at
20,000 tons per annum would be in the lower quality grades, because the
demand would essentially increase from the low income groups. The market
for higher quality rice is expected to grow slowly, at about 3Z per annum,
reaching some 4,000 tons by 1980.
2.        A similar growth pattern can be traced to other potential
markets for SEMRY rice, such as Fort Lamy in Chad, Maiduguri in Northern
Nigeria and Banqui in the Central African Republic (CAR). Although these
cities are smaller than the urban centers in Southern Cameroon, their
population is also growing rapidly at about 5% per annum, and rice consump-
tion is on the increase (about 3% per annum). SEMRY has already sold in
these markets about 1,200 tons of rice in 1969, and about 800 tons of rice
in 1970. The potential market in these neighboring countries is expected
to be larger than the 2,000 tons of SEMRY rice assumed to be exported in 1980.
Prices
3.        Table 1 shows the cost structure of rice as imported at present
(mostly from European Common Market countries as a result of preferential
tariffs). As demonstrated in the table, imported rice sells at a wholesale
price of CFAF 60,900 per ton in Yaounde, and SEMRY rice at CFAF 47,000 per
ton is able to compete with imported rice, even if transportation charges
(CFAF 10,400) and a wholesaler's margin (CFAF 3,500) are added.
4.        Table 2 shows at what level SEMRY's ex-mill prices would be if
(a) no protection of the Cameroonese market would exist in the form of
import duties and special taxes on imported rice (at present 43% of CIF
price Douala), and (b) the expected future prices on the world market
would be taken into account. In the calculation, it has been assumed that:
- SEMRY's standard quality rice would have to compete
with imported rice in the Yaounde market;



ANNEX 16
Page 2
- SEMRY's broken rice would be sold exclusively in
Northern Cameroon with Garoua as its center, and
would have to compete with imported rice transported
to Garoua;
- as various road and railway improvements now underway
would be completed by the time the project reaches
full development, transportation costs are estimated
to decline as follows:
Douala-Yaounde: from CFAF 3,600 to CFAF 3,400 per ton;
Yaounde-Garoua: from CFAF 7,000 to CFAF 5,300 per ton; and
Garoua-Yagoua:   from CFAF 3,400 to CFAF 2,000 per ton.
5.        Table 3 shows the estimated prices on potential SEMRY markets
outside Cameroon, taking into account expected world market prices and
transportation charges from ports of entry. As demonstrated, SEMRY's
favorable location with respect to these markets entails lower transporta-
tion charges and, therefore, a higher incentive for private traders to
export. In view of the small size of these markets, however, the present
destination of SEMRY rice has been taken as a basis for the internal rate
of return calculation on the project (20% of production sold as broken rice
in Northern Cameroon; 20% of production sold as standard quality rice in
export markets; 60% of production sold as standard quality rice in Yaounde).
December 29, 1971



ANNEX 16
Table 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Price Structure of Imported Rice
(Data obtained as of February 1971)
Italian White Rice, Long Grain, 20% Brokens
FOB Genoa, per ton in 1970                                           US$115.00
Shipping Costs                                                            7.00
Insurance (2.45% of FOB price)                                            2.80
CIF Price Douala:      US$124.80
or CFAF 34,694
Import Duty (20% on CIF price) CFAF 6,940
Supplementary Import Duty (5%)        1,735
Value-Added Tax (10%)                 4,336
Supplementary Tax (5% on CIF
price)       1,735
Municipal Tax                            120
14,866
Port and Phytosanitary Charges           260
Unloading                              1,110
Transport, Warehouse                     750
Custom's Charges                         695
Importer's Margin                       690        CFAF 18,371
Price Warehouse Douala: 53,065
Wholesaler's Margin (8%)               4,245
Transport Douala-Yaounde              3,580              7,825
60,890
Distribution Costs; Retailer's Margin                   13,200
Retail Price Yaounde:    74,090



ANNEX 16
Table 2
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Determination of Future SEMRY Ex-Mill Prices
1. Long-Grain Variety, 20-25% Brokens
Expected FOB Genoa Price in 1980                                              US$105.00
Shipping Costs                                                                     8.50
Insurance (2.45% of FOB price)                                                     2.60
US$116.10
or CFAF 32,275
Port and Phytosanitary Charges:       CFAF   260
Unloading                                   1,110
Transport,  Warehouse                         750
Customs Charges                               695
Impoorter's Margin                           690                     3,505
CIF Price Warehouse Douala:          35,780
Transport Douala-Yaounde:           3,400
39,180
Consumers' preference for SEMRY rice (10%)             3,920
43,100
Minus : Transport Yagoua - Yaounde:             7,300
SEMRY Ex-Mill Price  :           35,800
2. Burmese Milled Rice, Round Grain, 42% Brokens
Expected FOB Rangoon in 1980, per ton                                        IJS$ 80.00
SbLipping  Costs                                                                 15.00
Insurance (2.45% of FOB price)                                                    2.00
uS$ 97.00
or CFAF 26,965
Pcrt and Phytosanitary  Charges:    CFAF   260
Unloading                                 1,110
Transport, Warehouse                        750
Custom's Charges                            695
Inporter's Margin                           690                     3 505
CIF Price Warehouse Douala:      36,476
Plus : Transport Douala - Garoua:       8,700
Price Arrival  Garoua      39,170
Minus : Transport Yagoua - Garoua:        2,000
SEMRY Ex-Mill Price :      37,170



ANNEX 16
Table 3
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Future Rice Prices on Markets Outside Cameroon
CFAF
(a) Northern Nigeria (point of reference: Maiduguri)
CIF Price Warehouse Lagos                                  35,350
Transport Lagos - Maiduguri                                10,200
Warehouse Maiduguri           45,550
Transport Yagoua - Maiduguri                                2,550
SEMRY Ex-Mill Price:          43,000
(b)  Chad (point of reference: Fort Lamy)
CIF Price Warehouse Douala                                 35,780
Transport  Douala -  Fort Lamy                             LL,22
Warehouse Fort Lamy           47,580
Transport Yagoua - Fort Lamy
SEMRY Ex-Mill Price:          45,280
(c)  Central African Republic (point of reference: Barigui)
CIF Price Warehouse Douala                                 35,780
Transport Douala - Bangui                                  122600
Warehouse Bangui              48,380
Transport Yagoua - Bangui                                   6,300
SEMRY Ex-Mill Price:          42,080
Average Price for the three markets  (rounded)             43,450






CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Financial Estimates - Operating Account
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
REVENUE
1/
Proceeds from Rice Sales -/          171         254         376         448         510         563          608         616         622         625         625         625
Proceeds from Bran Sales-              5           7          10          12          14           15          16          17          17          17           17          17
TOTAL              176         261         386         460          524         578         624         633         639         642          642         642
=    =   =   =   =  5    =   =   =                                                                            =                       =
EXPENDITURES
Cash Payment for Paddy3/              65          94         135         156         175         193          208         211         213         214         214          214
MechantaI-Cultivation4/               30          42          56          59           62          65          68          68          68          68           68          68
Inputs56                              25          45          68          72          76          82           87          87          87          87          87           87
Operation and M intenanceY             5          26          41          47          39          40           41          41          42          42          42           42
Handling Costsl/                      11          17          25          30          34           38          41          41          42          42          31           31
Rice-Milling Costs8/                  33          49          73          87          99         109          118         120         121         121         121          121
Other Personnel Expenditures9/        49          55          55          50          32           30          30          30          30          30           30          30
TOTAL              218         328         453          501         517         557         593         598         603          604         593         593
-           =    _                              = 1 3                     S    =                  =s  5                   =
Net Surplus (Deficit)                (42)        (67)        (67)        (41)           7          21          31          35          36          38          49           49
Less Loan Interest10/                  4          17          30          34          36          40           40          40          40           39          39          39
Net Surplus (eficit )or
Operating Account                  (46)        (84)        (97)        (75)        (29)         (19)        (9)         (5)         (4)         (1)           10         10
Cumulative Surplus  (Deficit)        (46)       (130)       (227)       (302)       (331)       (350)        (359)       (364)       (368)       (369)       (359)        (349)
1/  Total production from Annex 15, plus 3,500 tons of paddy from outside project area of 2,800 ha, which would remain constant throughout project life, con-
verted to rice 67%. Prevailing average ex-mill price CFAF 44.6/kg.
2/  8% of total paddy at CFAF 10/kg.
3/ Total production as in 1/ at CFAF 11.3/kg during first year, gradually going down and reaching CFAF 10.0/kg during fifth year.
4/ Including amortization of equipment, personnel expenditures and taxes of fuel and oil; CFAF 8,700/cropped ha, from Annex 17; for outside project area CFAF
6,300/ha.
5/  Seeds, fertilizers, bags: CFAF 14,200/cropped ha from Annex 17; for outside project area CFAF 1,700/ha.
6/  From Annex 14.
7/  Total production as in 1/ at CFAF 2/kg during first 10 years, and CFAF 1.5/kg afterwards.
8/  Milling costs of CFAF 5.8/kg of paddy, including amortization and personnel expenditures.
9/  To cover all personnel expenditures on general management, extension and research which were not included in about 4/, 6/ and 8/.
1O/ On total loan to SENRY of CFAF 1,031 million at 3.5% interest during 35 years, with 5 year grace period.                                                                 ( 



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Financial Estimates - Sources and Apglication of Funds
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
SOURCES
Net Surplus (Deficit) per
Operating Accotunt               (46)       (84)        (97)        (75)       (29)        (19)        (9)        (5)         (4)         (1)         10          10
Add Depreciation-                   12         17          35          35         35          35         35         35          35          35           35         35
Loan Interest                        4         17          30          34         36          40        40          40          40          39           39         39
16         34          65         69          71          75        75          75          75         74           74          74
Cash Income                        (30)       (50)        (32)         (6)        42          56        66          70          71          73          84          84
LOANS. GRANTS, EQUITIES
IDA Credit as Loan                156         435         204         26           _
IDA Credit as Grant               152          -           -           -           -
FAC Grant                          112        153          74         31           -
CCCE as Equity                     200         -           -            -          -
CCCE as Grant                       20         23          19         21          20
Government Equity                   59        106          -           10         25
Government Loan                     61        110           1          12         26
TOTAL          760         827        298         100         71
TOTAL SOURCES          730        777         266          94        113          56         66         70          71          73           84          84
APPLICATIONS
Consultant's Fees                   87        117          36           -         -
Fixed Assets and Replacements    601          619         163           -         -            9        54          12         104           -           9          13
688        736         199           -         -            9        54          12         104           -           9          13
Inventorie!/                         9          4          6           4           3          3          2           1
Loan Repayments                                                                               47        47          47          46          46          68          68
TOTAL APPLICATIONS    697         740         205           4           3         59        103         60         150          46           77          81
Cash Surplus, Annual                33         37          61         90         11u          (3)       (37)        10         (79)         27            7          3
Cash Surplus, Cumulative            33         70         131        221         331         328       291         301         222         249         256         259
1/ Equipment and machinery.
Rice Stocks Estimated.
a x



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Financial Estimates - Balance Sheets
1973       1974        1975         1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                  601       1,220       1,383       1,383       1,383       1,392       1,446       1,458        1,562       1,562       1,571       1,584
Less Accumulated
Depreciation                 12          29          64          99         134         169         204          239         274         309         344         379
589      1,191       1,319        1,284       1,249       1,223       1,242       1,219       1,288       1,253       1,227        1,205
Consultant Fees                87         204         240         240         240          240         240         240         240         240         240         240
Total Fixed Assets          676       1,395       1,559       1,524       1,489       1,463       1,482       1,459        1,528       1,493       1,467       1,445
Less Capital Grants           239         356         392          392        392          392         392         392         392         392         392         392
Total Net Fixed Assets    437         1,039       1,167       1,132       1,097       1,071       1,090       1,067        1,136       1,101       1,075       1,053
Current Assets
Inventories                     9          13          19          23          26           29          31          32          32          32          32          32
Cash                           33          70         131         221         331         328          291         301         222         249         256         259
42          83         150         244         357         357         322         333         254         281         288          291
TOTAL ASSETS                479       1,122                   1,454                   1,428       1412              1       ,390          82363
LIABILITIES
Government Equity             259         365         365          375        400          400         400         400         400         400         400         400
Government Loan               217         762         967       1,005       1,031       1,031        1,031       1,031       1,031       1,031       1,031       1,031
Add Interest                    4           21         51           85         121         161         201         241         281         320         359         398
221         783      1,018        1,090       1,152       1,192       1,232       1,272       1,312       1,351       1,390       1,429
Less Repayments                -           -          -            -           -            47          94         141         187         233         301         369
221        783       1,018        1,090       1,152       1,145       1,138       1,131       1,125       1,118       1,089       1,060
Retained Earnings - per
Operating Account              (46)      (130)      (227)        (302)       (331)       (350)       (359)       (364)       (368)       (369)       (359)       (349)
Add Grants for 9perating
ExpenditureSE                  45         104        161          213         233         233         233         233         233         233         233         233
1l)       (26)        (66)        (89)        (98)       (117)       (126)       (131)       (135)       (136)       (126)        (116)  
TOTAL LIABILITIES           479                         1,377             1.454       1 428       1412           400       1,390       1,382       1,363  w    X
1/ Personnel Expenditures






CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Cropped                             Gross     Production        Cash
Area      Yield    Prices         Revenue       Cost          Income
ha       ton/ha   CFAF/kg        ------------CFAF------------
A.   Without Project  - Average Farm 3 ha:                                        2/                          3/
Project Area:    Rice (Paddy)                  0.8        1.3        17.6 2      18,300        6,400 -      11,900
Outside Project: Sorghum (Wet season)          1.0        1.1        10.0        11,000           590    Home Consumed
it         Mouskouari (dry-              1.0       0.7        10.0          7,000          340         6,660
season transplanted Sorghum)
to         Others                        0.2         -          -            -              -     Home Consumed
TOTAL                3.0                               36,300        7,330        18,560
US$ 67
B.   With Project - Average  Farm 3.7 ha:                   4/                                                5/
Project Area:    Rice                          2.07-      3.0        20.0       124,200       63,240 -      60,960
Outside  Project:Sorghum                       1.00       1.1        10.0        11,000           590    Home Consumed
"1         Mouskouari                    1.00       0.7       10.0          7,000          340         6,660
if         Others                        0.20        -         -              -             -     Home Consumed
TOTAL                4.27                             142,200       64,170        67,620
US$243
1/  Paddy yields assumed to increase from 1.2 to 1.3 ton/ha.  Other yields slightly improved.
2/ Accounting price of paddy to farmers (CFAF 16 per kg) plus quality premiums averaging CFAF 1.6 per kg.
3/ Estimated without subsidy, at CFAF 8,000/ha. Current subsidy about 20% of total cost (see para 6.06)
4/ Rice land would be 1.54 ha of which 0.53 will be double cropped.
5/  BTeakdown of CFAF 30,550/ha:
-                       ~~~~Seed, 120 kg            3,600       )
Fertilizer               10,000        ) provided
Bags                        600        )    in
Land  Preparation         6,250        )  kind
Sowing,  Spraying,                     )    by
Threshing               2,450        )  SEMRY
Water Gharges             7,200        )
Hired Labor (3 man-days)   450  paid by  farmer
coa






ANNEX 19
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
FARM LABOR REQUIREMENTS
Assuming that a family grows rice over 1.5 irrigated hectare with
0.5 ha double-cropped per year, and sorghum and mouskouari over 1 hectare
each with 1 crop per year, the labor requirements would be as follows (in
man-days):
Rice        Rice
Wet Season  Dry Season  Sorghum  Mouskouari Working        Hired
1.5 ha      0.5 ha       1 ha     1 ha         Days Total  Labor
Jun 1-15                      1           8                      9
16-30          2                      32                     34
Jul 1-15         16                       8                     24
16-31         14                     19                      33
Aug 1-15           3                      2                      5
16-31                                 6                       6
Sep 1-15          1                     12                      13
16-30          1                     10           5          16
Oct 1-15                                  8          2          10
16-31         45                       7          2          54       Rice 6
Nov 1-15         23                                             23
16-30          7                                 16          23
Dec 1-15                                            16          16
16-31                      1                                  1
Jan 1-15                      5                                  5
16-31                      5                      5          10
Feb 1-15                      1                      5           6
16-28                                             5           5
Mar 1-15
16-31
Apr 1-15                      1                                  1
16-30                      1                                  1
May 1-15                     17                                 17
16-31                      8                      8          16
TOTAL           112          40         112         64         328             6
/ The average family has 3.9 workers, with a working capacity of 48 days
for each fortnight.






ANNEX 20
Page 1
CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Internal Economic Return
1.        The following assumptions have been made in calculating the
internal economic return, as shown in Table 1:
(a) Investment costs, including civil works, on-farm works and
equipment, construction cost of rice mill and storage and
housing facilities, are derived from Annex 7 and total CFAF
1,180 million, including contingencies. The economic cost
of these investments amounts to CFAF 811 million after the
following deductions:
-    CFAF 152 million corresponding to 60% of cost of
dike, Guerleo structure and main drain, which would
serve an area about three times larger than the
project;
-    CFAF 95 million representing estimated indirect
taxes on construction costs at 12%;
-    CFAF 16 million estimated indirect taxes on the
operational costs of on-farm development works at
18%;
-    CFAF 106 million corresponding to price contingencies
(para 4.21);
(b)  From investment costs was subtracted the residual value of
part of the construction equipment to be sold in the fourth
year of the project: CFAF 21 million;
(c) Consultant services amount to CFAF 228 million, excluding
price contingencies;
(d) Annual current expenditures include:
-    Incremental personnel expenditures for management and
extension, based on current salary levels, excluding
contingencies (Annex 12, Table 2). Since benefits
from research and training would not be limited to
the project area, these costs were also excluded from
the current expenditures;



ANNEX 20
Page 2
-    Operation and maintenance including amortization of
equipment are derived from Annex 14. 25% tax on
fuel and oil has been deducted and CFAF 1.2 million
for maintenance of dike and road has been omitted
to take into account servicing other areas;
-    Land preparation, inputs and handling charges
(incremental), after deduction of tax on fuel and
oil;
-    Hired labor costed at actual wage rate; family
labor has been costed at zero; and
-    Rice milling calculated at CFAF 4.3 per kg of paddy
which includes amortization, operation and personnel
expenditure after deduction of tax on fuel and oil.
(e) Incremental production is based on area and yield proj-
ections as given in Annex 15. Conversion of paddy into
rice at 67%. Yield of bran at 8% and standard quality
rice and broken rice in the ratio of about 4:1; and
(f) The following prices have been applied:
-    Standard quality CFAF 35,800/ton for domestic market
and CFAF 43,450/ton for export and broken rice
CFAF 37,170/ton on the assumption that 60% of total
rice production will be sold as standard quality
rice in Yaounde, 20% 2s standard quality to neighbor-
ing countries and 20% as broken rice to northern
Cameroon; and
-    The price of bran is taken as CFAF 10,000/ton.
2.        Sensitivity tests have been carried out to measure the impact of
changes in the assumptions made on project costs and benefits. The results
are summarized below:
Change                               Rate of Return
(M)
(a)  Slow development of double cropping
over 8 years insteaa of 5 years                       10.3
(b)  10% increase in current expenditures                   9.0
(c)  10% increase in the cost of project works             10.2
(d)  Shadow price of 50% of actual wage rates
applied to incremental family labor                    9.0
(e) Development of double cropping over 2,500 ha
in 8 years instead of 1,500 ha in 5 years             12.2
(f)  10% increase in rice prices                           13.6



ANNEX 20
Page 3
3.        Three steps are necessary in calculating the project's foreign
exchange benefits. First, both the foreign exchange earnings or savings
and the foreign exchange costs must be determined. Second, the net foreign
exchange benefits must be established by deducting the foreign exchange
costs from earnings. Finally, it is necessary to determine at what cost
of local resources these net foreign exchange benefits were obtained in
order to decide whether the local costs are justified. Because costs and
benefits take place in different years, it is necessary to express them
using a common denominator. This is accomplished by presenting both in
terms of their present worth, using the opportunity cost of capital as
an appropriate discount rate. The ratio of discounted net local costs
to discounted net foreign exchange benefits is the foreign exchange rate
for the project. To evaluate this ratio, it must be compared with the
prevailing foreign exchange rate for the country's currency, or, if necessary,
with a shadow foreign exchange rate.
4.        In calculating the project's international foreign exchange
rate, the following assumptions were made:
(a)  foreign exchange earnings or savings amount to 100% of
the project gross value of incremental production: US$1.5
million per annum at full development, and US$76,000 from
sale of equipment;
(b)  foreign exchange costs include:
-    59% of total construction costs including consultant
services not including contingencies (US$2.2 million)
and the following incremental annual costs:
-    73% of operation and maintenance costs (US$94,000);
-    20% of management and extension personnel expenditure
(IIS$2,000);
-    68% of land preparation, inputs and handling costs
(US$343,000);
-    80% of rice milling costs (US$193,000);
(c)  local costs include:
-    41% of total construction costs (CFAF 426 million)
and the following incremental annual costs:
-    27% of O&M costs (CFAF 10 million);
-    80% of personnel expenditures (CFAF 2 million);
-    32% of land preparation, inputs and handling costs
(CFAF 45 million);



ANNEX 20
Page 4
-    20% of rice milling costs; and
-    100% of hired labor expenditure.
5.        The foreign exchange earnings and local cost streams used in
the analysis are presented in Table 2. The net present worth of foreign
exchange benefits to be realized over the project's life, at a discount
rate of 9%, is US$4.6 million while the discounted net local costs are
CFAF 1,055 million. The ratio of the discounted costs to benefits (i.e.,
the internal foreign exchange rate for the project) is CFAF 229 to the US$,
which is appreciably better than the official exchange rate of CFAF 278
per US$.
December 29, 1971



CAMEROON
SEMRY RICE PROJECT
Cost Benefit Streams ; Internal Economic Return
(CFAF Million)
-------INVESTMENT -        ---------          ----_------------------ CURRENT EXPENDITURES-----------------------
Total        Gross Value of        Net
Consultant        Personnel         Operation &         Land Preparation,         Hired      Rice              Incremental       Incremental        Benefit
Year       Project Works       Services       Expenditures        Maintenance        Inputs and Handling        Labor    Milling                Costs          Production         Stream
1972-73         359               83                10                  5                     25                 -          4                   486                26              (460)
1973-74         428              111                12                25                      58                 _         15                   649                88              (561)
1974-75          24               34                16                38                     102                 -         32                   246               194               (52)
1975-76         (21)              -                 18                43                     113                 1         42                   196               256                60
1976-77          -                -                  4                 35                    124                 1         51                   215               310                95
1977-78          -                -                  3                 35                    135                 2         59                   234               356               122
1978-79          -                -                  3                36                     147                 2         65                   253               395               142
1979-80          -                -                  3                36                     147                 2         66                   254               402               148
1980-81          -                -                  3                36                     148                 2         67                   256               407               151
1981-82          -                -                  3                 36                    148                 2         67                   256               408               152
1982-83          -                -                  3                36                     140                 2         67                   248               408               160
1983-84          -                -                  3                 36                    140                 2         67                   248               408               160
1984-85          -                -                  3                36                     140                 2         67                   248               408               160
2012-13          -                -                  3                 36                    140                 2         67                   248               408               160
D a
Internal Econonic Return:  11%                                                                                                                                                                          o



Z2      I        rac,nnnNs   Dr_rn 
0     1 i
^¢ i
02!
v    o2             000,0  a0la,                            a
-011   I    -00 O  0 < rl N       0 N     N 
S                            a,  ,- a                           a
00 3    I    -a - aa               o a N N 
o8  .;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
Ul ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ 4 b  C   
00       I a     a - I
00e    I       00al- 
I.C       I       'aS 00                                              0.    ^tZN
_.0    I                                              0     I   
DS  - ;  NP o Ne I_ 0.                                0!  (



MAP 1
Af:-i EI  A                                                                     0Makorj
-        WCAMERO N                   -- ;-eudectaU
for ale       fim
:; MRY RtCE PROJECT LOCAI   stP 
ROAMER O                           ~o~'                              P
S  -  .  Prcier;t-   :  .     -      <               i#/     2~~~~~~~Maroua~o - t        Somb@
IRunOA    S OSR   Moqodoz                                          ,4goo1 0t        F
tkpwm trwun    r*ot                             J iguil
~~~Mt~~~~~ROAOS  _     (                                  CHAD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lai
,, .,,,' ... 4*"i Urierosn .....'                              c= '"t"lf  '  ' '\
-  :  -                                    ( -                                        t it A   :
mend. ..aondere
-  , :.  G1XER                                                                                  / AtA  r
A  v  E .. jv R g~~Fouban   
wwWabf/    g Dscha>                                                                             AFR1CAN :
~~~~~~~~ourX~~~~~~~~~~~~
2       \ aNSa>g~~~somba   1     Bafia               ela b           bo                     It e R  PUeB  I C
.-          O         \    Pabassi  O        r       R     J      O    CONGO
'. . , - r @egMbo~~~~~ND                                         ng 
,iX 'jS s :s -> gt S almaMbylmao\ ,
>angmel~~rim6ima                                                       %#
w~ ~~~~ W $j  <*                        jt-qS(  of    coP   <  
E    NUB ALIC  /           GAO ReRAZZAV ILL--
APRIL 1971                                                                                                     IBRD-338






MAP 2
b   C  A 191 E R  O  0  N        >(<    X  v 5°    ;d5>J; ~   -; <    i = 0MadEloni/irE>
'D-
CAMEROON                                 ~~~~~~~~~CAMEOt
4 L-7 N. ~ ~       ~      3014                  S
r = v AX s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN.                                                        PROJ ECT w RS D  sl 
!o_Iterrot.onoI boundary
30   PIBRD9,.t--, 4                    33S
APRIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1971



