CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 302 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(SEMRY Rice Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 26, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 302 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(SEMRY Rice Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 26, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1972, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Borrower intends to contract from   Caisse Centrale pour la
Coope'ration Economique, an agency of the Republic of France (hereinafter called
CCCE), a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) in an aggregate principal amount
of CFAF 303,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(C)  The Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of France,
through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (hereinafter called FAC), a grant
(hereinafter called the French Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of
CFAF 370,000,000, to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the French Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Republic of France and the Borrower:
(D)  The Project will be carried out by the Socitd d'Expansion et de
Modernisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua (hereinafter called SEMRY), a Societe'
de Developpement of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law
No. 68/LF/9 of June 11, 1968 and Decree No. 71/DF/74 of February 24, 1971
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to SEMRY the proceeds of the Credit, as hereinafter provided, as
will also make available to SEMRY the proceeds of the CCCE Loan and of the
French Grant; and
(E)  The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SEMRY;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conlitions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement"; and
(e)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional tenrms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and SEMRY of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SEMRY pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Financing Agreement;
(c)   "Statuts " means the Statuts of SEMRY as approved by the Borrower's
Decree No. 71/DF/74 dated February 24, 1971;


﻿5
(d)   "Project Area" means the area defined by Decrees No. 7 1/DF/74 of
February 24, 1971 and No. 71-01/COR of January 15, 1971;
(e)   "CFA Francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean francs in the currency
of the Borrower;
(f)   "F Francs" and the letters "FF" mean francs in the currency of the
Republic of France;
(g)   "cahier des charges " means the list of duties and obligations of farmers
cultivating rice fields in the Project Area, as referred to in Decree No. 7 1/DF/74
of February 24, 1971;
(h)   "Pro tocole d'Accord" means the "Protocole d'Accord concernant les
amnMagements hydrauliques sur le Logone (Agreement on Logone river water
development) between the Borrower and the Republic of Chad signed on
August 20, 1970 as supplemented for purposes of th Project by an exchange
of letters 4797/MINPAT/PROG dated October 29, 1971; and
(i)   "BCD" means the Banque Camerounaise de Ddveloppenw;it of the
Cameroon established under the laws of the Borrower on December 6, 1960.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($3,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason.able cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿6
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 1982 and ending October 1, 2021, each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
SEMRY to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Project Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of the funds, facilities
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SEMRY to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to
SEMRY under a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SEMRY on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   In order to assist SEMRY in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall make available to SEMRY the services of a qualified and experienced engineer
de genie rural who will be responsible for periodic inspection of the progress of
the construction of the Project.
(e)   Without in any way restricting or limiting its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
cause BCD, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Association, to provide
SEMRY promptly with such funds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, as shall be required by SEMRY to meet any of its short-term credit
requirements.
Section 3.02. In order to assist SEMRY in the preparation of plans,
specifications and bidding documents for the Project and in the supervision of
the construction of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SEMRY to employ a
firm  of engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower
shall take all steps necessary on its part to ensure that no works shall be permitted
to take place on the Logone River which might have an adverse effect on agricultural
development in the Project Area.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes to cause its health services to study
closely the development of Bilharzia in the Project Area and adjacent areas and
in particular shall make periodic checks on the snail population in relation to the
number of cases and strains of the disease contracted in the said areas and as


﻿8
part of its health services in the Project Area shall take such measures as shall
be acceptable to the Association to combat this disease.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any part of its indebtedness
under the CCCE Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall simultaneously repay a
proportionate amount of the Credit then outstanding. All the provisions of the
General Conditions relating to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any repayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the subscribed capital of
SEMRY is paid in promptly on demand by the Board of Directors (Conseil
d'Administration) of SEMRY.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respect ve obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by SEMRY of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Project Financing Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of SEMRY and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of


﻿9
SEMRY and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by SEMRY of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of SEMRY and any relevant records
and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Project Financing Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
Section 6.04. The Borrower shall ensure that, with the exception of petrol,
diesel and lubricating oils, all goods imported by SEMRY for the Project will be
exempt from all import duties levied by the Borrower including, without limitation,
the Common External Tariff, Customs Import Duty, Turnover Tax and
Complementary Tax.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SEMRY shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Project Financing Agreement, or any provision of the said
Agreement, shall have been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated
or waived without the prior approval of the Association;
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SEMRY will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or Project Financing Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower's Law    No. 68/LF/9   of June 11, 1968, Decree
No. 71/DF/74 of February 24, 1971 and Arr6tg No. 722/MINFI/B3 of
July 29, 1971 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as, in the opinion of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the
ability of SEMRY to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SEMRY or for the suspension
of its operations;
(f)   the CCCE Loan Agreement or the French Grant Agreement shall have
been terminated (other than in accordance with the terms thereof) or in any
material respect amended, suspended, waived or assigned;


﻿11
(g)   any event shall have occurred which shall have operated to suspend
the right of the Borrower to withdraw amounts under either the CCCE Loan
Agreement or the French Grant Agreement;
(h)   SEMRY shall have sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of
any of its property or assets financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit
other than in the ordinary course of its business, without the prior approval of
the Association; and
(i)   the Borrower shall have taken any action to terminate, amend, waive
or suspend the Protocole d'Accord without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 7.02 (a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower: and
(b)   any event specified in Section 7.02 (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) or (i) of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions namely, that:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SEMRY have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and SEMRY, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   SEMRY has employed the consultants referred to in Sections 3.02
of this Agreement and 2.02 of the Project Agreement.


﻿12
(d)   That the terms and conditions of the French Grant Agreement shall
be satisfactory to the Association and that the conditions precedent, if any, to
initial disbursement under such Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
(e)   That the terms and conditions of the CCCE Loan Agreement shall
be satisfactory to the Association and that the conditions precedent, if any, to
initial disbursement under such Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
(f)   That the S'tatuts of SEMRY have been duly amended in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, so as to increase the amount of its authorized capital
to CFAF 645,000,000 and that of this amount not less than CFAF 100,000,000
shall have been paid in.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and. delivered on behalf of, SEMRY, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of SEMRY in -accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, arid executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SEMRY,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
SEMRY in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date July 28, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower and the provisions of
paragraphs (a), (c) and (e) of Section 3.01, of Section 4.02, and of paragraphs (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e) and (h) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement, shall cease and determine
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre du Plan et de l'Amenagement di Territoire of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de
l'Am6nagement du Territoire
B.P. 1046
Yaound6
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Minpat
Yaound6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Frangois-Xavier Tchoungui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Equipment                     1,270,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
II.   Civil Works                   1,440,000           58% of total ex-
(excluding pumps)                                  penditures
III.  On-Farm Develop-                160,000           58% of total ex-
ment Works (ex-                                    penditures
cluding equipment)
IV.   Unallocated                     830,000
TOTAL         3,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and of
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Bor-wer.


﻿15
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
.(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to


﻿16
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Civil Works
(1)   Reinforcement of the 49 km Logone dike and improvement of
a parallel road;
(2)   C-nstruction of the Guerleo intake control structure;
(3)   Construction of a main drain;
(4)   Construction of four pumping stations;
(5)   Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage networks to serve
approximately 1,300 ha;
(6)   Construction of new irrigation and drainage networks to serve
approximately 3,000 ha;
(7)   Construction of a rice mill and related storage facilities;
(8)   Construction of housing and utility buildings.
Part B:     On-Farm Development Works
The execution of land clearing and levelling, and construction of
tertiary canals, drains, field dikes and farm roads on approximately
3,000 ha of newly irrigated lands.
Part C:    Engineering and Supervision of all works included in Parts A and B
above.
Part D:    Equipment
The purchase of pumps, construction equipment for on-farm
development, farm equipment, rice milling equipment, repair shop
equipment and vehicles.


﻿18
Part E:    Management, Research and Extension Services
The expansion of management and extension services provided by
SEMRY as well as a continuation of its research activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


