Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8862
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(CREDITS 1717-KE AND AF021-KE)
JUNE 29, 1990
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC      = Agricultural Finance Corporation
AIA      = Appropriations-in-Aid
AIE      = Authority to Incur Expenditure
ASAO     = Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASAP     = Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
ASMP     = Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP     = Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CBK      =  Cooperative Bank of Kenya
CLSMB    =  Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DANIDA   =  Danish International Development Agency
DCA      =  Development Credit Agreement
DPD      =  Development Planning Division of MOAIMOLD
DPM      =  Department of Personnel Management
EEC      =  European Economic Commission
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
GID      =  Government Investments Division of Treasury
GIS      =  Geographical Information System
GOK      =  Government of Kenya
HIID     =  Harvard Institute for International Development
IMF      =  International Monetary Fund
KCC      =  Kenya Cooperatives Creameries
KMC      =  Kenya Meat Commission
KREMU    =  Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Board
MALD     = Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MLD      = Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA      =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOALD    = Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOERD    = Ministry of Energy and Regional Development
MOF      = Ministry of Finance
NCPB     =  National Cereals and Produce Board
NIB      =  National Irrigation Board
OED      =  Operations Evaluation Department
PCR      =  Project Completion Report
PD       =  Parastatals Division of the MOA
PMS      -  Project Management System
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
PPF      =  Project Preparation Facility
PR          President's Report
PS          Permanent Secretary
RMEA     =  Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
SAL II   =  Second Structural Adjustment Operation
SDR      =  Special Drawing RighL
SONY     =  South Nyanza Sugar Company
TA       =  Technical Assistance
TAP      =  Technical Assistance Pool
THS      =  Tractors Hire Service
TOR      =  Terms of Reference
UBC      =  Uplands Bacon Company
UNDP     =  United Nations Development Programme



FOR  FMCIL UE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Oko (A DffCSrC.iWfa
June 29, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Kenya - Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1277-KE) and Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Operation (Credits 1717-KE and AF021-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Performance Audit Report on Kenya: Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1277-KE) and Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (Credits 1717-KE and AF021-KE)" prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (CREDITS 1717-KE and AF021-KE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  .........              ......................................................                     i
Basic  Data  Sheets  ....... .....                              ..................................       ii
Evaluation  Summary  .................... .  ...........................  ..*..  .                       vi
I.   BACKGROUND  .................                     ...............................                  1
II.   DESIGN  ................................   ........... 4 .................                         3
III.    IMPLEMENTATION  ...........   ..........................                  . .    .  .....        10
AT AP ................. 10
ASAO  .#  ............................ ........... ...................                          ll1
IV.   IMPACT  .............                .......................................                      14
V.   ISSUES  AND  FINDINGS    . ................................*.......                              15
A.   Assessing ASAO  Effectiveness  ....15........... ....*                                     is
B.   Predictability of Economic Reforms  ....... .............                                  16
C.   Complementary  TA  ......................                         . ...... * .... .        17
D.   ASAO  Procurement  ......           . .  ....... . .   ............ *. .... .              18
ATTACHMENT  I:   Comments from  the Borrower  .........................                                   19
MAPS
IBRD 12438R3
IBRD 16468R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (CREDITS 1717-KE and AF021-KE)
PREFACE
This is a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of two Kenyan
projects designed, in one case, to provide technical assistance for studies
and other advice relating to a structural adjustment operation and, in the
other case, to support a subsequent agricultural sector adjustment
operation.
The SDR 5.4 million credit (Credit 1277-KE) for the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project was approved by the Board on July 1, 1982,
signed on July 21, 1982 and became effective on October 19, 1982. The
credit was closed on November 30, 1986, one year after the original closing
date, with the final disbursement on July 3, 1987. The IDA Credit 1717-KE
and African Facility Credit AF021-KE for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation, in the amounts of SDR17.6 million and SDR35.2 million
respectively, were approved on June 23, 1986. The credits were fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was on November 10, 1988. The
operation was well supported also by a number of other donors.
The PPAR is based on the Project Completion Reports Nos. 8797 and
8798 dated June 1990, the Staff Appraisal and the President's Reports, the
legal documents, the transcripts of the Executive Director's meetings at
which the projects were considered, a study of project files, and
discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited Kenya in January 1990,
and discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with government
and donor representatives. Their kind cooperation and valuable assistance
in the preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
The PCRs provide a detailed account and assessment of the project
experiences and discuss the performance of the Bank and the project
executing agencies. The PPAR elaborates on particular aspects such as the
attribution to the sector adjustment operation of policy decisions made in
advance of the Credits, the predictability of economic reforms, the design
of complementary technical assistance, and procurement under the sector
adjustment operation.
The draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower and the Cofinancing
agencies for comments but none was received.



- U -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (CREDITS 1717-KE and AF021-KE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1277-KE)
Actual        Actual as %
Appraisal   or Current    of Appraisal
Key Project Data                      Estimate     Estimate        Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ m)               7.0           7.0          100
Credit Amount (SDR m)                    6.4           5.4          100
- Disbursed                             S.4           6.4          100
- Cancelled                             -             0.0            _
- Repaid                                -             0.0
- Outstanding                           -              .4            -
Financing Plan (SDR m)
IDA Credit                             6.4           6.4          100
Government                             0.9           0.9          100
Date Board Approval                       -        07/01/82
Date of Signing                           -        07/21/82
Date of Effectiveness                     -        10/19/82
Date Physical Components Completed    07/01/85    08/30/88
Proportion then Completed                 -          100
Closing Date                           12/01/85    11/30/88
Cumulative Disbursements (SDR m)
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY88   FY87
Appraisal Estima.as                    0.1',  2.1     4.0    4.9    6.4
Actual                                  -      -      2.0    2.5    4.3      5.4
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimates      0      0     60     51      79     100
Date of Final Disbursement             July 3, 1987
STAFFWEEKS*
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY86   FY88   FY87   FY88    Total
Preappreisal        9.3                                                  9.3
Appraisal          25.0                                                 25.0
Negotiation         9.9                                                  9.9
Supervision                10.8   12.5   16.6   21.8   11.5    2.8      75.7
Other               1.2                                                  1.2
Total              46.4   10.8   12.6   16.6   21.8   11.6    2.8    121.1
*/ The project became effective in FY83; however a PPF was authorized in
May 1982 (FY82).
* Excludes time spent by Young Professionals.



- {ii-
(Credit 1277-KE) (continued)
MISSION DATA
Specializa-
Date     No. of     tions       Performance        Types of
Mission         (mo./yr.)  Persons  Represented  Rating       Trend Problems
Supervision I         10/82      2     E,F             -         -      -
Supervision II        02/83      2     E               2         2      U
Supervision III a/   03/83       1     F               -         -      -
Supervision IV 8/    04/83       2     E               1         1      m
Supervision V        04/83       2     E,F             1         1      U
Supervision VI a/    07/83       1     E               -         -      -
Supervision VII a/   11/83       1     -               _         _      _
Supervision VIII      11/83      1     MS              1         1      m
Supervision IX a/    03/84       1     E               -         -      -
Supervision X a/      04/84      1     -               _         _      _
Supervision XI a/    04/84       1     -               _         _      _
Supervision XII       04/84      1     E               1         1      M,O
Supervision XIII      11/84      1     E               1         2      M,O
Supervision XIV 8/   11/84       1     E               -         -      -
Supervision XV I/    01/86       1     F               -         -      -
Supervision XVI a/   02/85       1     -               -         -      -
Supervision XVII a/  03/86       4     E,F,MS          -         -      -
Supervision XVIII    03/85       4     E,F,R,OA        1         2      M,O
Supervision XIX       07/85      3     E,OA,R          1         2      M,O
Supervision XX        12/8S      6     E,F,R,IMS       1         2      M,O
Supervision XXI a/   03/86       2     E,R             -         -      _
Supervision XXII a/  03/86       1     OA              _         _
Supervision XXIII    07/86       3     E,OA,R          1         1      a
Supervision XXIV 8/  10/86       1     E               -         -      -
Supervision XXV 8/   12/86       6     E,OA,MS         -         -      -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower              -    Goversment of Kenya
Executing Agencies   -    Ministry of Agriculture
-    Ministry of Livestock Development
-    Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU)
-    Office of the President
-    Ministry of Finance and Planning
-    National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB)
Name of Currency             -   Kenya Shilling (KSh.)
Appraisal Year Average       -   USSI = KShs 10,922
Intervening Years Average   -   USS1 = KShs 14.719
Completion Year Average      -   USS1 a KShs 16.226
Follow-on Project
Name                         -   Agricultural Sector Management Project
Credit Number                -   1718-KE
Credit Amount                -   SDR 10.2 million
Credit Agreement Date        -   February 10, 1987
a/ Back-to-office (BTO) only.
b/ E = Economist, F = Financial Analyst, MS = Management Specialist, OA =
Operations Assistant, R = Resource Ecologist.
c/ M = Managerial, 0 = Other Problems



- iv -
BASIC DATA SHEET
Agricultural Sector Adiustment Operation (Credits 1717-KE and AFU21-KE)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Total External Commitments
US$
Equivalent
IDA and Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa              71.2 a/
Saudi Fund                             4.0
Netherlands                           15.8
Fed. Rep. of Germany                  15.0
Japan                                 73.0
Denmark                                1.5
EEC bl                                72.8
TOTAL                                253.3
Original               Actual or
Estimate               Re-estimated
Total Project Cost (SDR m)        52.8
Credit 1717-KE                  17.6
Credit A021-KE                  35.2
Disbursed                                               52.8
Cancelled                                                O c/
Negotiations                     4-5/86                 4-5186
Board Approval                   6123/86                6/23/86
Credit Agreement                 2/10/87                2/10/87
Effectiveness                    1216186                3/31/87
Credit Closing                   6/30/88                6/30/88
Actual Completion                                        12/31/88
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(SDR M)
FY87    FY88    FY89
Planned                           26.4    52.8      52.8
Actual                              0      38.0     52.8
Actual as % of Planned                     72      100
a/  Cited as US$60 million equivalent at the time of Board presentation.
This PCR re-estimate is a result of changes in the value of SDRs.
b/ Disbursement ongoing at the time of audit. See PCR Annex 1, Table 11.
c/ SDR 1.76 only.



(Credits 1717-XE and AF021-KE) (continued)
STAFFWEEKS
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    Total
Preappraisal         21.1   53.5    65.9                   104.6
Appraisal                            51.6                   51.6
Negotiation                          28.5                   28.5
Supervision                                30.5   31.5      62.0
Other                                       1.0     .2       1.2
TOTAL                21.1   53.5   146.0  31.5   31.7    283.9
*Excludes time spent by Young Professionals.
MISSION DATA
Specializa-
Date     No. of   Staff   tions          Performance  Types of
Mission         (mo./yr.)  Persons  Weeks   Represented  Rating         Problems
Preparation         6/84       6    122.0 a/
Appraisal/Nego.    1/86        8      62.0
Supervision I      11/86       7      26.3      E,AE,FA,O      1           M,O
Supervision II      5/87       7      21.4      E,AE,FA,O      2           M,O
Supervision III   11/87        7      21.4      E,AE,FA,O      1           M,O
Completion          2/89       2       6.0
a/  Includes inputs (about 50 staffweeks during FY84 and FY85) for activities
indirectly related to the ASAO but which were recorded under ASAO because
of the absence of another operational activity for time recording (i.e.,
drought recovery work, agricultural sector report, agriculture donor
coordination).
b/  E - Economist, AE - Ag. Economist, FA = Financial Analyst, 0 - Other
(includes Institution Specialist, Fertilizer Industry Specialist, Project
Officer)
c   M - Managerial; 0 - Other problems.



- vi -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (CREDITS 1717-KE and AFO21-E)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       Early in the 1980s, prior to its considering the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (ATAP), the Bank viewed the performance of
Kenya's agricultural sector as sluggish. The Government and the Bank
attributed that sluggish performance to a number of structural problems
which they duly addressed in Kenya's Second Structural Adjustment Operation
(SAL II). Meeting the conditionality of SAL II required strengthening of
the Kenya administration's analytical capabilities, which inspired the
preparation of ATAP as a companion operation to SAL II.
2.       By the mid-1980s, prior to its considering the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO), the Bank was still pessimistic about Kenya's
agricultural performance. The lessons emerZ4ng from the two earlier SALs
led the Bank to persevere with adjustment efforts, but through SECALs.
Agriculture was given priority, and during 1984 the Bank and Government set
about preparing an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO).
Oblectives
3.       The purpose of the ATAP was to support that part of the Borrower's
structural adjustment program that focused on the agricultural sector:
a study and action program for grain marketing and pricing, preparation of
a project for subdivision of group-owned farms, upgrading Kenya's technical
capacity to provide information on land use and natural resources,
supporting management improvements at the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock Development (MOA and MLD), and introducing microprocessors,
training, and miscellaneous studies. Total project cost was estimated at
US$7.0 million, to be financed by IDA (US$6 million) and GOK (US$1
million), and the project was expected to take about three years.
4.       ASAO was designed to support, with $60 million equivalent in
credits, the first two years of a broader GOK program of sectoral
adjustment which covered a five-year period. The Borrower agreed under
ASAO to a range of actions designed to strengthen agricultural inputs
supply, agricultural price incentives, budget rationalization and sector
management, oversight of the portfolio of agricultural parastatals, and
agricultural credit. ASAO also attracted a large amount of funding from
other donors, totaling about US$182 million equivalent from the EEC, the
Saudi Fund, Japan, the Netherlands, Federal Republic of Germany and
Denmark.



- vii -
Implementation
5.       ATAP's credit became effective in October 1982, and its
implementation peziod lasted till June 1986, one year longer than expected.
Implementation was uneven. The components that dealt with grain marketing
and preparation of a project for subdivision of group-owned farms
experienced problems with the selection of consultants, a loss of GOK
commitmei:t, delays, and a shortfall in achievements. The other components
proceeded satisfactorily.
6.       ASAO's credits became effective in March 1987, although the policy
conditions had been met as early as November 1986. Disbursement of the
first tranche was completed by the end of September 1987. The second
tranche was released on March 4, 1988, and fully disbursed by November 10,
1988.
7.       Fertilizer availability and consumption did not change much over
the ASAO implementation period, but they did hold steady at the sharply
higher levels reached immediately beforehand in 1985/86. The audit accepts
the notion that Government's broader, parent adjustment program had begun
earlier and that "up front" actions taken in reforming fertilizer supply
are relevant for ASAO evaluation purposes. The Borrower continued to
employ border pricing principles in setting domestic prices for
agricultural commodities, although achievements in reducing delays in
parastatal payments for some commodities and in providing differential
prices for quality variations were mixed. Gross fixed capital formation by
agricultural ministries increased, as did their total resources in real
terms. There was negligible progress in formulating a comprehensive
strategy on parastatals, although financial restructuring and
reorganization of three major enterprises responsible for heavy financial
losses proceeded well. AFC adopted new credit policies, and reorganized
and reviewed its operations.
Results
8.       ATAP's impact was favorable in the case of those components that
concentrated on delivering more efficient technical, accounting and
financial management services: the technical support for land use
monitoring, budget and financial management of the ministry, and
computerization. ATAP's impact was much below expectations in the case of
reviews of grain marketing and land tenure, where political sensitivities
blocked any chance for TA to meet project objectives. In recognition of
the instances of favorable impact of TA on institutional development, the
audit judges ATA2's performance overall as satisfactory.
9.       ASAO's impact was also satisfactory.  Despite its mixed record of
achievements during implementation, the audit is satisfied that ASAO helped
the sector to achieve a growth rate of above 4X p.a., in line with prior
predictions. The existence of a wide ranging reform program and a specific
schedule of covenants for the Borrower to meet helped keep issues alive,
forced debates on them at a variety of levels, and produced enough
desirable action. The audit is conscious that these are relatively
subjective assessments.



- viii -
Sustainability
10.      The fact that ASAO was imbedded in a wider program has helped the
momentum of adjustment actions to continue beyond the implementation
period. More important, satisfactory growth has helped to sustain the
legitimacy of reforms. The prospect of an ASAO II also offers promise that
changes under ASAO will survive. However, these optimistic views take no
account of the strong forces that shaped the pre-ASAO condition of the
sector and that must also have contributed to ASAO's uneven implementation.
Those parts of ATAP that were effective have, by and large, continued to be
sustained.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.      In proposing ASAO to the Board, Bank staff made predictions that
this operation would add between one and two percentage points to Kenya's
annual agricultural growth rate. However, the PCR does not present an ex
post version of this analysis, and we are left to wonder what it might
reveal about ASAO's effectiveness and about the methodology itself. The
audit recommends that the documentation for any follow-on project include
such an ex post analysis.
12.      On another point regarding ASAO effectiveness, the audit accepts
the idea that ASAO can take, or share, credit for the impact of fertilizer
policy decisions taken before Board presentation. Preparation of ASAO was
well under way at the time of those decisions, and it is reasonable to
infer that the authority of those introducing early reforms was
considerably strengthened by the prospect of a forthcoming SECAL. This
audit judgment contrasts with some other views on how to evaluate this type
of operation, which would hold that adjustment decisions are determined
exclusively by internal political considerations and do not sometimes
require the support of external constituencies.
13.      The PCRs for ASAO and ATAP share a notable refrain:  those who
prepared, appraised, and approved these projects misjudged the extent of
political opposition to some of the reforms intended for execution or even
study, even though their President's Reports acknowledged the risks of such
opposition. Insights from current political economic theory provide some
understanding, indeed almost an expectation, of equivocation by borrowers
in policy operations. Short of encouraging more adjustment actions to be
taken in advance of such operations, the audit can only suggest the Bank
consider more carefully the nature of prior policies before it judges the
likelihood of their reform. This is most likely a subject for Bank
research.
14.      An OED study of technical assistance in Sub-Saharan Africa,
currently nearing completion, argues persuasively that the linkage of
ATAP's technical assistance to meeting controversial grain marketing and
land subdivision conditionalities of SAL II was the main source of its
problems. Even if the Bank targets its TA operations at less controversial
roles, however, it should be concerned about the heavy strain that ASAO-



- ix -
type lending places on analytical capacity in borrower governments. Some
relief from this strain might be found in promoting the demonstration
effects of reforms that policy-makers can readily perceive to have worked
elsewhere. Preparation of such demonstrations could afford to be less
staff intensive and less ambitious than was the attempt (in SAL II) to
change the large Kenya parastatal responsible for grain marketing.
15.      While the items procured and the expenditures against which
reimbursements were made met the requirements of ASAO's legal agreements,
the process of procurement selection was symptomatic of the extent to which
both the Borrower and the Bank assign priority to achieving disbursement
objectives. This "bias" in procurement practices was consistent with the
experience of other, similar policy-based operations recently investigated
by OED.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
AND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (CREDITS 1717-KE and AFO21-KE)
I. BACKGROUND
1.01     Early in the 1980s, prior to its considering the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (ATAP), the Bank viewed the performance of
Kenya's agricultural sector over the period 1972-1979 as sluggish (ATAP
President's Report, para. 10). To put this view into perspective, it is
useful to examine Kenya's agricultural growth rates over a longer period:1
Agricultural                     Agricultural
Year     Growth Rate            Year       Growth Rate
1970        -7.9                1978          3.8
1971        16.1                1979         -0.5
1972        11.4                1980          1.1
1973         2.7                1981          5.9
1974        -2.4                1982         10.9
1975         7.4                1983          1.8
1976         1.9                1984         -3.5
1977        10.0                1985          3.4
The average growth rate over the eight years 1972-79 was in fact a brisk
4.2% p.a.  If one measures the rate from the end of 1972, ignoring the high
growth for that year, one gets an average of 3.2% p.a. over a seven years
period. This is still a favorable growth rate by most international
standards, although Kenya's 4% population growth does make its agricultural
growth rates appear sluggish. Anyway, the Bank attributed the sluggish
performance over 1972-79 to adverse weather, poor budget and financial
management procedures in the agricultural ministries, and inappropriate
policies on agricultural prices, land use, and land tenure. Some of these
"shortcomings" of the agricultural sector attracted the attention of those
in the Government of Kenya and in the Bank who were preparing the Bank's
second Structural Adjustment Operation (SAL II). They duly incorporated
into SAL II design elements that included agricultural reform
conditionality. They judged that meeting this conditionality required
strengthening of the Kenya administration's analytical capabilities, which
inspired a companion ATAP operation to provide technical assistance in
support of SAL II.
1   Source:  World Bank Database (BESD).



- 2 -
1.02     By the mid-1980s, prior to its considering the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO), the Bank was still pessimistic about Kenya's
agricultural performance. The ASAO President's Report (PR) cites the
reasons for this pessimism: an unfavorable economic environment, limited
arable land, stagnating use of fertilizers and HYVs, inadequate production
incentives, falling agricultural investment, and problems with agricultural
services due to weaknesses in government and parastatal institutions (ASAO
PR, para. 38). The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Credit (999-KE
approved in November 1979 and closed in December 1980) and its Second
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Ln. 2190-KE/Cr. 1276-KE approved in
July 1982 and closed in January 1984) had been only partially effective.
Implementation of the first SAL took more time than expected, partly
because of unforeseen administrative and political constraints.2 To the
extent that some measures had not been fully implemented, they became part
of the action program under SAL II. Implementation of the SAL II
experienced considerable delays, and although much of the program was
judged to have been implemented, the expected impact of both SAL operations
did not materialize, partly because of adverse effects of weather on
agricultural production and the government's resulting preoccupation with
short term management of crises. The lessons emerging from both SALs
pointed to the need for structural adjustment programs to be based not only
on realistic assessments of the economy, but also on the possibilities and
climate for major reforms.3 The Bank resolved that it would not persevere
further with attempts to influence the Kenyan economy within a SAL
framework. It determined instead to pursue such efforts through SECALs,
i.e., sector by sector. Agriculture was given priority, and in 1984 the
Bank and Government set about preparing an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (ASAO).
1.03     ASAO also came to be supported by a technical assistance project,
in this case the Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP). Bank staff
believed that sector and structural adjustment operations put considerable
strain on a borrower's analytical capabilities. They viewed professional
argument and empirical analysis by technicians as essential, characteristic
inputs to the process of policy review and decision-making in the Kenya
government, perhaps more so than in most African countries. Hence, both
SAL II and ASAO adjustment operations were accompanied by technical
assistance operations. The availability of PCRs for both ATAP and ASAO has
allowed a joint audit to explore the relationships between these two kinds
of instruments. OED has already reviewed ATAP as part of a special study
of technical assistance in Sub-Saharan Africa.4
2   OED Report No. 4934, Kenya First Structural Adjustment Credit (999-KE),
February 10, 1984, page iii.
3   OED Report No. 5682, Kenya Second Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
(Loan 2190-KE and Credit 1276-KE) May 31, 1985, pp. iii-iv.
4   Evaluation of Two Agricultural Institutions' Technical Assistance
Projects (Credits 1277 and 1718): A Case Study, May 5, 1989, as
prepared for OED Report No. 8573, Free Standing Technical Assistance
for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, April 19, 1990.



- 3 -
II. DESIGN
2.01     The main purpose of the ATAP was to support that part of the
Borrower's second structural adjustment program that focused on the
agricultural sector. Three policy concerns predominated. First, there had
been a long-standing belief in the Bank and in some quarters in Kenya that
the parastatal monopoly position of Kenya's National Cereals and Produce
Board (NCPB) and its marketing practices were profound obstacles to
agricultural growth and efficiency.  NCPB handled Kenya's most important
crop, white maize, which was also the staple food. Staff recognized that
the policies represented by NCPB's activities had a strong political
dimension as well as some economic rationale, but the perceived benefits of
reforming grain marketing persuaded Bank management that it should
encourage reform. This was known to be a challenging task, as many earlier
attempts to encourage such reform had been fruitless.
2.02     Second, the informal and illegal subdivision of many of the former
large mixed farms and estates of the Colonial era had created uncertainties
of tenure and related difficulties that blunted official efforts to support
their owners with credit and other services. The Bank agreed with those
who believed that the de facto subdivision should be given legal status and
was anxious to support GOK's technical capacity to execute such a program.
Again, the Bank had been arguing this way for a long time, without
success.5
2.03     Third, GOK's agricultural development activities, as supported by
the Bank and other donors, relied heavily on the implementation capacity of
Government ministries and parastatals. Some of these might also have
benefitted, like NCPB, from more radical reforms, but GOK preferred to view
their problems as being amenable to better technical and financial
management. The Bank, wholly pragmatic in this case, agreed.
2.04     These concerns were translated into the actions required under SAL
II and into the supportive work program which defined ATAP. Largely as a
result, Schedule 1 of the ATAP Development Credit Agreement describes the
project as follows:
Part A: Grain Marketing and Pricing
1. Carrying out of a study to determine the appropriate market structure
for maize, taking into account the need to provide adequate incentives to
producers to ensure adequate growth of domestic production, the need for
efficient marketing, transportation, storage and distribution of the crop and the
need for consumer prices that reflect economic costs of production and
distribution, and including (i) an investigation of the optimal division of
functions between the public sector, the cooperatives and the private sector,
(ii) recommendations for an appropriate food security plan, and (iii)
recommendations for a program of marketing development, including information,
services and infrastructure.
5   The Group Farm Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1093-KE/Credit 537-KE),
approved in 1975, had financed a study of group farms and their
subdivision problems.



2. Formulation, on the basis of the information and recommendations
contained In the aforementioned study, of such action programs as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.
8. Improvement of the collection process and quality of statistics on grain
production, consumption, prices and marketing.
Part B: Preparation of a Project for Subdivision of Group-Owned
Farms
1. Review of the current status of subdivision of group-owned farms and
examination of the issues and constraints relating thereto.
2. Formulation of a program and preparation of a project to ease the
constraints identified under the aforementioned review, to accelerate the
subdivision process and to provide needed agricultural services to areas
affected.
Part C: Upgrading KREMU's Technical Capacity
Upgrading the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit's (KREMU's)
processing capacity to enable it to increase its data output and to provide
background information in the areas of land use and natural resources.
Part D: Management Improvements at MOA and MLD
1. Improvement of financial management (including budgeting) at the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Livestock Development (MLD) through
(i) continuation of the work of the Task Force on Budget and Financial Management
Processes, and (ii) the preparation of background papers on specific issues of
financial management.
2. Improvement of general management of MOA and MLD through (i) analysis of
specific problem areas, and (ii) implementation of improvements recommended on
the basis of such analysis.
Part E: Contlnuation of the Work of the Technical Assistance Pool
Continuation of the work of the Technical Assistance Pool for the benefit of
MOA, MILD, and Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) in the areas
of general and financial management, project preparation, commodity analysis and
agricultural strategy recommendation.
Part F: Expansion of the Microprocessors Program at MOA and MLD
Integration of additional microprocessors into the operations of UOA and MLD.
Part C: Trainlng
Training, both in Kenya and abroad, of staff of MOA and MLD in accounting,
financial management, general management, use of microprocessors and such other
disciplines as may be appropriate in connection with the activities under Parts A
through F of the Project.
Part H: Miscellaneous Studies
Such other studies as may be required for the purpose of the Project and as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
In view of the existence of earlier, well documented studies of maize
marketing and of large farm subdivision, the two studies components in the
above project description signalled awkward prospects, not only for ATAP,
but also for SAL II. Resort to yet further studies of this kind suggests
that the Bank and borrower could not agree on suitable adjustment policies.



- 5 -
2.05      Total project cost was estimated at US$7.0 million and the project
was expected to take about three years.
2.06.    At an early stage in the preparation of ASAO, GOK and the Bank
decided that preparation had to reflect a more collegial effort than did
the preparation of SAL II, with many government staff being consulted and
involved. Furthermore, ASAO was to be designed to support a broader GOK
program of sectoral adjustment, ASAP, which covered a five-year period.
According to the President's Report, ASAP aimed to
(a) promote Intensification of production and better use of Kenya's limited
land, by stimulating the use of farm inputs, improving farmers' access to
agricultural credit, and improving essential agricultural services;
(b) improve producer incentives, with a focus on increasing real producer
returns, speeding up payments to farmers, and developing efficient, low-
cost marketing channels; and
(c) expand the flow of public and private resources for agricultural
investment, through increasing the country s absorptive capacity,
improving the structure, efficioncy and management of public resource
allocation and expenditure, directing funds toward high priority
Investments and services, and increasing incentives for private
investment.
This rather bland description of objectives hid an apparently firm resolve
by GOK to chart a new course for the economy, as outlined in its 1986 Paper
on "Economic Management for Renewal Growth."
2.07      The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO), supported by
credits of US$60 million equivalent (US$40 million from the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (SFA) and US$20 million from IDA),6 was
designed to support the various objectives of ASAP. The Borrower agreed
under ASAO to a range of actions, listed below, which are drawn from
Article III and Schedule 3 of the DCA (or from corresponding sections of
the African Facility Credit Agreement):
A. Agricultural Inputs Supply
- Increase the availability of fertilizer;
- expand the number of fertilizer distributors, including commercial
distributors and cooperatives, as well as other end-users;
- improve allocations to proven fertilizer importers; and
- improve the coordination of aid and commercial fertilizer.
- by June of each year, draft a fertilizer import plan;
6   These were the amounts of IDA and African Facility funds referred to in
the PR. These funds were expressed in the legal agreements in terms of
SDR at the then prevailing exchange rates.



- 6 -
- announce fertilizer allocations, by July in each year, for the long and
short rains of the following year, and specify quotas for each season.
- by December 1988, increase user charges for seed certification;
- by October 1987, Increase seed retail margins;
- by October 1987, increase the Tractor Hire Service and Plant Hire Service
fees to market levels;
- implement a program fQr phased increases in user charges for livestock
services.
- by December 1987, design a national livestock development program.
B.  Incentives
- continue to: employ export and import parity principles in establishing
floor prices for agricultural commodities; and provide adequate price
incentives to farmers;
- by December 1986, review the structure of cotton prices in relation to
differences in cotton varieties.
- by March 1987, undertake the restructuring of CLSUB to ensure rapid
payment to cotton farmers;
- by December 1986, take all necessary steps to ensure that coffee
cooperatives do not deduct costs unrelated to the processing and
marketing of coffee from payments to coffee farmers; and
- complete the study of the coffee industry and, by October 1987, take
necessary steps to improve the coffee marketing and payment system.
C.  Budget Rationalization and Sector Management
- continue its budget ratlonalization program in MOA and MLD, shifting the
emphasis and structure of the budget toward high priority investments and
expenditures, and strengthening the resource allocation and planning
processes;
- increase real resources to the agricultural sector;
- maintain within MOA and MLD Budget and Project Committees and Budget
Secretariats;
- annually, by June of each year, furnish to the Association for discussion
an action plan for the implementation of the budget rationalization
program;
- by September 1986, commence the analysis of manpower requirements by MOA.
D. Parastatals
- classify its agricultural sector parastatals into those to be
strengthened, rehabilitated or divested (pursuant to divesting Itself of
parastatals, which are essentially commercial in nature, and to
maintaining and strengthening those which are essential to public
welfare); and
- furnish to the Association plans of action for the financial
restructuring and reorganization of the South Nyanza Sugar Company
(SONY), NCPB and the National Irrigation Board (NIB).
- by October 1986, complete the strategy for handling MOA's parastatal
portfolio, including a work plan and a schedule for dealing with specific
enterprises and for monitoring their expenditures.



-7-
E. Agricultural Credit
- implement a program for the rehabilitation of AFC.
- by October 1987, carry out a review of AFC's financial structure, Its
future role and institutional status, and the administration of the
borrower's New Seasonal Credit Scheme;
- from the 1987 season, cause the Cooperative Bank of Kenya to operate as a
principal under Its New Seasonal Credit Scheme;
- by December 1986, review the results of the Cooperative Agricultural
Credit Study, and thereafter cause the Cooperative Bank of Kenya to make
improvements in the management of donor-aided cooperative credit schemes.
F. Management and Coordination
- establish and maintain a Management Comnittee, to be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MOA, whose members shall include senior officials
from MOA, MLD and other participating 'inistries and parastatals.
The character of the actions required on input supply and incentives
reveals that GOK was already exercising intimate control over these areas,
albeit with one eye on market signals. It also reveals a faith in the
ability of technical analysts to devise appropriate improvements to
government interventions without diminishing much of that control.
2.08      ASAO's US$60 million was to finance the foreign exchange cost of
the following eligible agricultural imports in support of the first two
years of ASAP:
Item                                                   Indicative Amount
(US$ million)
1.  Fertilizer                                                 18.0
2.  Pesticides and Chemicals                                   16.0
3.  Agricultural Machinery & Spare Parts                       10.5
4.  Veterinary Supplies                                         5.0
5.  Seeds                                                       1.5
6.  Petroleum                                                   6.0
7.  Transport Equipment for Sector                              3.0
TOTAL                                                      60.0
The purposes behind nominating this specific list of eligible goods is not
clear. The PR introduces them as being 'critical" imports for the sector,
but they are not really defined narrowly enough to merit that description.
Responses to the audit's enquiries among Bank staff as to why more than
nominal restrictions on goods procured were felt necessary suggest that the
list merely reflected caution. The SECAL instrument was new, and staff and
management probably judged that the character of that instrument was



- 8 -
determined as much by what it procured as by what it wrought in policy
change.7 The legal agreements provided the usual broad guidelines on
procurement methods, including international competitive bidding.
2.09     In estimating ASAO benefits, the PR predicted that the five-year
ASAP would increase agricultural growth over the medium term by nearly 1-2%
p.a., i.e., from its prior level of 3.2% p.a. (by coincidence the same rate
as that mentioned in para. 1.01) to between 4 and 5% p.a., ceteris paribus.
ASAO, by stint of its support of ASAP would, by inference, have a similar
predicted impact on agricultural growth. The PR considered the alternative
"without adjustment program" scenario to be relatively bleak; it predicted
an agricultural growth rate of less than 3.2% p.a, reflecting the
increasing difficulties of mobilizing new resources, such as unused land.
The PR recognized as a major risk to the program the possibility that
several of the difficult policy reforms would encounter 'implementation
problems due to political opposition" (PR, para. 94).
2.10     As is well explained in the PCR (Annex 1, Table 11), ASAO also
attracted, or was to attract, a large amount of funding from other donors,
totaling about US$182 million equivalent from the EEC, the Saudi Fund,
Japan, the Netherlands, Federal Republic of Germany and Denmark. Eligible
expenditure items for these donor funds varied. For example, the EEC's
funds were to be used to support a reform program for NCPB.
Board Concerns
2.11     ATAP was presented to the Board jointly with SAL II on July 1,
1982. The SAL attracted most of the Board's attention. For example, one
Executive Director's feeling that GOK's commitment merely to review and
reach decisions on maize marketing by March 1983 was rather leisurely was
directed more at the underlying pace of reform in SAL II than at the
necessarily linked timing of work in ATAP. Another E.D. wondered why it
was necessary to employ administrative mechanisms to ape market price
movements when there was agreement on the princ!ple of importlexport parity
pricing and when producer prices had been raised to international levels
previously in December 1981. Again, the brunt of this query fell on SAL
II. Significantly, one E.D. welcomed ATAP in view of the dangers of
straining GOK's administrative and technical capacity with a complex SAL II
program.
2.12     ASAO was presented to the Board jointly with ASMP (the successor
project to ATAP) on June 23, 1986. In introducing ASAO, staff noted that a
number of adjustment measures had been implemented in advance as part of
GOK's ASAP, which ASAO supported.  For example, certain reforms to
fertilizer importing and marketing had led - or so it was claimed - to a
remarkable 40% increase in fertilizer use in the year just past. (This and
other such "reforms", - the by now customary increases in producer prices,
increases in MOA's budget, etc. - represented "up front" measures that
clearly need consideration when measuring the impact of- ASAO. That Is,
start dates such as June 23, 1986 may prove to be too narrowly defined.)
7   The Kenya Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (1927-KE) approved by the
Board in June 1988 finances general imports subject to a negative list.



- 9 -
2.13     Executive Directors queried the relation of ASAO to an IMF
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF); the ambitious nature of ASAO's many
targets and numerous actions required; as well as the relative vagueness of
some of the adjustment measures and actions required. One expressed the
view that the Operation was more like a well-directed initial step than a
detailed program. Staff responded that it was premature to discuss any
details of an IMF SAF (which did not eventuate until February 1988); they
referred to ASAO's parent program as essentially a five-year one, and they
agreed that institutional change would be slow, particularly in the case of
parastatals. With some candor, they opined that the GOK's administration
could only handle the divestiture of one parastatal at a time.



- 10 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
ATAP
3.01     ATAP became effective in October 1982 and its implementation
period lasted till June 1986, one year longer than expected.
Implementation was uneven. The components that dealt with grain marketing
and preparation of a project for subdivision of group-owned farms
experienced problems with the selection of consultants, a loss of GOK
commitment, delays, and a shortfall in achievements. The other components
proceeded satisfactorily.
3.02     Grain Marketing Study.  Following some disagreement and eventual
compromise between GOK and IDA regarding the selection of consultants for a
grain marketing study, the consultant team issued a draft report to GOK in
October 1983. In December 1983 GOK informed the Bank that NCPB would
become a buyer and seller of last resort, meaning also that it would no
longer be the sole buyer and seller, and that it would manage the reserve
security stock. Qualified private traders would be allowed to market maize
and wheat. These conclusions, drawn from the ATAP study, were accepted by
the Bank as meeting part of the conditions for releasing the second tranche
of SAL II (release of such funds had been pending since March 1983).
Subsequent actions required of GOK under both ATAP and SAL II, namely, to
implement the proposed changes, soon fizzled out: Cabinet failed to
approve the necessary procedural steps; and a drought intervened. However,
other actions were taken. In July 1984, GOK appointed the Kenya Grain
Growers Cooperative Union as a new marketing agency, a step which the PCR
reports as being a reversal of earlier statements regarding marketing
liberalization.  Thus, the second step of ATAP's Part A - the formulation
of a grain marketing action program based on the study - failed to
materialize. The PCR blames "the political sensitivity of the issues and
Government's distrust of involving private traders in maize marketingu
(PCR, para. 5.06). The grain marketing study's findings did lead, however,
to ATAP assistance for improving NCPB's accounts and for supporting some
organizational changes in NCPB. They also became the basis for designing
further Bank assistance to NCPB under ASAO.
3.03     Group Farms Subdivision.  After preparing a short list of
consultants for the review of de facto subdivision of group farms,
government withdrew this list and, with IDA's agreement, proceeded to carry
out its own review. Its report was issued in June 1983. (Lack of such a
report earlier in the year had also been among the grounds for delaying the
release of the second tranche of SAL II.) The Borrower did not execute,
however, the next step of preparing a project that would implement the
report's findings, i.e., the second step of ATAP's Part B also failed to
materialize. The PCR blames "a shift in the political situation ...
associated with Government reluctance to addressing the sensitive land
issues



- 11 -
3.04     Other Components.  The balance of the technical assistance project
fared much better. It provided KREMU with technical specialists and
equipment for carrying out aerial surveys and data processing. It provided
two budget and computer advisors to MOA and MLD, supported approximately 12
other advisors via the Technical Assistance Pool, introduced six micro
computers in support of MOALD8 budget preparation and monitoring, and
provided assorted training of MOALD staff. A large number of papers were
completed for the Task Force on Budgeting and Financial Management (PCR,
Annex 1).
3.05     ATAP's closing date was delayed by one year and 100% of the credit
was disbursed.  There were no disbursements against Part H (Miscellaneous
Studies).
3.06     Reviewing the three main points of linkage between ATAP and SAL
II, involving the grain marketing and subdivision studies and support for
budgeting and financial management, the first two experienced serious
shortfalls and the third succeeded. This outcome contributed to the
findings of OED's wider study of TA in Sub-Saharan Africa that TA has been
more successful when it has been used to strengthen specific technical,
accounting, or financial units within core or sectoral ministries.
ASAO
3.07     ASAO's main conditions of credit effectiveness - progress in
agricultural policy reform - were met by November 1986, but the credit
agreements were not declared effective until March 30, 1987, i.e., after
IDA had received Legal Opinions from GOK's Attorney General. Disbursement
of the first tranche (US$30 million equivalent from Cr. 1717 and A0210) was
completed by the end of September 1987. The second tranche, of equal
value, was released on March 4, 1988, following IDA's determination of
satisfactory ASAO progress. It was fully disbursed by December 31, 1988.
3.08     In reporting to the Board on the release of the second tranche,
Bank Management drew attention to GOK's decision to reform NCPB so as to
eliminate its monopoly on grain marketing and contain the drain on the
government budget. In 1987, NCPB closed 65% of its buying centers,
dismissed redundant personnel and opened maize trading to cooperatives and
licensed traders.
3.09     The ASAO funds were reallocated to favor the Agricultural
Equipment and Spare Parts Category, which accounted for 42% of
disbursements (up from 17%). Transactions financed from the date of the
agreements (February 10, 1987) were eligible for reimbursement, and all
disbursements were made against statements of expenditures for commercial
imports. Many of these imports had been completed, as allowed, prior to
the date of the credit agreements.
8   MOA and MLD merged in 1983.



- 12 -
3.10     Input SuRply. Neither fertilizer availability nor use increased
measurably after the date of ASAO agreemenLs, despite Borrower compliance
with many of the supposedly enabling actions: namely, an expansion in the
number of distributors and improved bases for allocating supplies to
importers ard coordinating commercial imports and 'aid' fertilizer (see
related data for 1986187 and 1987/88 in the PCR's Annex 1, Table 2).
Possible explanations for this slow response cited in the PCR include:
uncertainty arising out of late price announcements; technical deficiencies
in the pricing formula; lack of complementary liberalization of foreign
exchange allocations; mixed signals on fertilizer aid in kind; and the
effects of substantial domestic fertilizer price increases. In the audit's
view, this experience reveals the frustrations of reforming an economic
system so penetrated by government interventions. Removing one layer of
controls reveals several more. Nevertheless, the data show that the much
higher plateau of fertilizer availability and consumption reached in
1985/86 (para. 2.12) was largely maintained over the ASAO implementation
period. Despite disappointments, there was progress.
3.11     The Borrower increased user charges for seed certification and
livestock services, but not retail prices for maize seed or tractor hire
fees. The audit could not determine the outcome regarding a program for
national livestock development. In its report to the Board on second
tranche release, Bank management excused GOK's failure to increase tractor
hire fees by noting GOK's decision to phase out the tractor hire service.
The audit understands that this service continues.
3.12     Incentives.  The Borrower continued to employ border pricing
principles in setting domestic producer prices for commodities (it is
questionable whether these act as "floor" prices as required in the DCA and
para. 2.07B above). After adjustments for inflation to the PCR's gross
margin figures for maize, it is apparent that the real value of these
producer incentives was not necessarily maintained over 1985/86 to 1987/88
(contrary to what is implied in the PCR, para. 23(a)). Restructuring of
CLSMB was delayed, with attendant set backs to speeding up payments to
cotton growers. Cotton price differentials for quality variation did not
eventuate until 1990. An improved coffee payment system was worked out,
based on a study of the coffee industry, but Government did not put it into
effect. Government did direct coffee cooperative societies not to charge
farmers for costs unrelated to processing and marketing.
3.13     Budget Rationalization and Sector Management.  The budget
rationalization program continued. Gross fixed capital formation by
agricultural ministries increased, as did their total resources in real
terms (PCR, Annex 1, Table 7). The various budget and project committees
functioied as required, but their accomplishments are difficult to
determine. The analysis of manpower requirements was completed early in
1988, and the agricultural ministries did restrain personnel growth.
3.14     Parastatals.  There was negligible progress in classifying
agricultural parastatals and formulating a comprehensive strategy for them
or in improving the ministries' supervision of them. However, financial
restructuring and reorganization of SONY, NCPB and NIB proceeded beyond the
plans of action required, into the implementation phase.



- 13 -
3.15     Agricultural Credit.  AFC adopted new policies, reorganized and
reviewed its operations, and reviewed its seasonal credit scheme.
Government reviewed the results of the Cooperative Credit Study and
formalized lending conditions for new schemes. The Cooperative Bank of
Kenya did not operate as a principal under its New Seasonal Credit Scheme
because of shortage of funds.
3.16     Management and Coordination.  The Management Committee was
superseded by a Steering Committee of Permanent Secretaries, chaired by the
PS of MOF. Redistribution of various ASAO functions among several new and
old ministries beginning in 1986 (PCR, para. 35) required this change '.n
management arrangements.



- 14 -
IV. IMPACT
4.01     ATAP's impact was favorable in strengthening the institutional
development of KREMU and of MOA/MLD's budgeting and financial management
processes. This is apparent from the many favorable reviews recorded and
the number of studies completed, although it is difficult to evaluate such
impact more objectively, in the absence of figures on increased cost
recovery, higher quality investment projects, etc. ATAP's impact on NCPB
reforms was more modest than expected; its impact on legalizing sub-
division of group farms was extremely limited. The PCR tends to offset
these disappointments by claiming that ATAP was able to respond flexibly
and that the existence of such an operation allowed IDA to continue its
dialogue with Government on sensitive issues. The audit concludes that
ATAP's performance overall was satisfactory.
4.02     ASAO's impact was also satisfactory.  The average agricultural
growth rate over 1986-89 exceeded 4% p.a. and agriculture as a proportion
of GDP declined slightly. The sector's annual growth rates, using mainly
BESD sources were:
1986             4.7%
1987             4.0%
1988             4.6%
1989             4.0% (government estimate)
Taken together, these developments reflect favorable agricultural
performance and a normal, secular decline for the sector; they are also in
line with the PR's growth predictions. While it is difficult to attribute
such performance to ASAO entirely, the audit believes that it made a
significant contribution. In particular, the audit accepts the idea that
ASAP had begun earlier and that 'up front' actions taken in reforming
fertilizer supply, for example, are relevant for ASAO evaluation purposes.
(This judgment is reviewed further in Section V.) The existence of a wide
ranging reform program and a specific schedule of covenants for the
Borrower to meet helped keep issues alive, forced debates on them at a
variety of levels, and produced enough desirable action. Various
shortfalls and disappointments during implementation attract considerable
space in the PCR, as they should, but the audit agrees with the PCR that
overall performance was adequate.



- 15 -
V. ISSU';S AND FINDINGS
5.01     The audit explores below the following issues:  (a) the assessment
of ASAO effectiveness; (b) the predictability of economic reforms in
policy-based operations; (c) the implications for technical assistance of
being complementary to policy-based operations; and (d) selection of items
procured under ASAO.
A.  Assessing ASAO Effectiveness
5.02     The task of assessing ASAO effectiveness brought to light two
related issues. First, the PR's willingness to model and predict the
impact of ASAO on Kenyan agricultural growth deserves commendation. It is
possible that such an analytical approach ought to become Bank routine for
appraising SECALs and for evaluating them ex post. However, the PCR does
not recalculate the model to account for ASAO experience and to predict
('explain') how much of actual growth might have been attributable to ASAO.
The audit recommends that some such ex post analysis be reported as part of
the documentation of any follow-on project.
5.03     Second, the audit's favorable assessment of ASAO hinges to a fair
extent on joint attribution to ASAO of the large prior increase in
fertilizer availability under the parent ASAP (paras. 2.06 and 2.12). This
linkage is a key issue in debating ASAO effectiveness.
5.04     The arguments against such linkage would be that the decisions
enabling increased fertilizer imports (in 1985186) were taken before ASAO
and that this increase would have been maintained without ASAO. This line
of argument is consistent with a point of view that economic policy
decisions are determined exclusively by internal political considerations
and do not sometimes require the support of external constituencies (or the
international community).
5.05     The arguments in favor of such linkage are that the increased
fertilizer imports took place during ASAO preparation in an environment of
GOK confidence that the ASAO operation would be approved and financed by
the Bank. The audit takes the view that active involvement of Bank staff
in analyzing policy alternatives and the prospect of receiving Bank (and
other) ASAO resources helped GOK's civil servant advisers and their
ministers to orchestrate the wide ranging reform proposals. Without the
ASAO support and the additional credibility that it lent to ASAP, the audit
doubts whether ASAP's proponents would have been as forceful in mounting
their program and as effective in defending it against opponents. This
judgment call in ASAO's favor also reflects concern over why policy changes
are problematic, discussed next, which explains why some form of external
persuasion can be helpful.



- 16 -
B. Predictability of Economic Reforms
5.06     The PCRs for ASAO and ATAP share a common theme:  those who
prepared, appraised, and approved these projects misjudged the political
opposition to some of the reforms intended for execution or even study.
Doubtless, such opposition is an ever-present risk in policy-based or
policy-focused operations. Bank staff consulted by the audit have pointed
out that the Bank's final position on ATAP's work program in particular
obscured a wide range of opinion among staff and management on what was
feasible with regard to reforms of grain marketing and of land tenure.  The
PR for ASAO was quite candid about the political basis for risks
confronting that operation (para. 2.09 above). The ASAO and ATAP
experiences of implementation shortfalls suggests, however, that the Bank
should seek better ways of gauging the political feasibility of policy
reforms.
5.07     Neither President's Report diagnoses how the Kenyan agriculture
sector developed the characteristics that were in need of reform, or how
the interest groups that presumably favored the proposed reforms would
prevail over the interest groups that presumably favored the status quo ex
ante. For investment project analyses, the absence of previous development
makes the status quo ex ante relatively uninteresting. Policy-based loans,
however, do not normally confront an analogous vacuum of previous policies.
Nor are we entirely ignorant of why such policies are bound to be well
defended even though they are often judged harmful to society.
5.08     A recent Bank Working Paper by M.S. Grindle,9  argues that
neoclassical political economy, which has developed largely to explain
policy conditions in developed countries, offers persuasive reasons why
public policy frequently harms the public interest. According to Grindle,
available theory offers "a profoundly cynical view of the political
process". Even vhen the process of economic policy formation is limited to
voting by individuals and lobbying by special interest groups (and by
assumption, bureaucrats, policy elites, and the State behave as if they
have no special interests of their own), the predicted outcome often
reflects rent-seeking behavior that overwhelms the notion of a public
interest. The result is incoherent policy, distorted economic
interactions, and inefficiency. Add to this unhappy prospect less-than-
benign behavior on the part of the other players and the predicted
potential for policy distortions mounts rapidly.
5.09     The above explanations of "pre-reform" policies poses a problem:
established theory seems to suggest that economic reforms - e.g., those
undertaken In ASAO - are less feasible than their precedents, and quite
exposed to reversal. To quote Grindle: "The rent seeking behavior that
explains economically irrational policy choices cannot readily explain the
adoption of choices that conform to neoclassical notions of enlightened
policy."   To explain policy changes that reflect increases in economic
wisdom, one almost has to pose exogenous developments: benign leadership,
9   Merilee S. Grindle, "The New Political Economy:  Positive Economics and
Negative Politics", Country Economics Department, The World Bank,
December 1989.



- 17 -
or disinterested advice, or the Jolt of crisis. Certainly, "the
explanation of change is a far more challenging task than the explanation
of stasis.' Grindle goes on to argue that available theory needs more
adaptation for developing countries, to reflect both different political
structures and the need to highlight the potential for politics as a
positive rather than negative factor in policy choice.
5.10     The audit believes that these insights of current political
economic theory should help us to understand, indeed almost to expect, some
back-sliding and equivocation by borrowers in policy operations,
particularly when future adjustment actions are choreographed against dates
and deadlines revealed in advance to those adversely affected by reforms.
Some policy actions are best left to be taken opportunistically.
Unfortunately, this "understanding" does not help much in the design of
SECALs, unless it encourages more actions to be taken in advance. Where
actions are the subject of conditionality, the audit can only suggest that
the Bank consider more carefully the nature of a borrower's political
economy and the nature of its prior policies in reaching judgments about
the likelihood of specific reforms. This seems like a good subject for
Bank research.
C. Complementary TA
5.11     OED's case study of ATAP and ASMP (para. 1.03) argues,
persuasively, that the linkage of ATAP's technical assistance to meeting
the grain marketing and land subdivision conditionality of SAL II was the
main source of its problems. It cites some Kenyans' views that advisors
hired with Bank resources to provide policy advice in such controversial
circumstances would never be accepted as dispassionate analysts; "the
implication is clearly that TA provided for policy advice or for
operational reforms that threaten vested interests must be very cautiously
undertaken, if at all". In contrast, the relative success of the TA
provided to KREMU and the budget process lay in its not being directly
focussed on policy or decision making. Rather, these ATAP components had
been identified as addressing serious technical shortcomings in processes
that supported policy making. That is, they were about one step removed
from having a sharp policy focus.
5.12     Even if the Bank targets its TA at less controversial roles,
however, it should be concerned about the heavy strain that ASAO-type
lending places on analytical capacity in government. This strain is
particularly problematic for borrowers like Kenya where, since 1986, there
has been increased political sensitivity to accepting TA. Some relief
might be found in the demonstration effect of reforms perceived to have
worked in a related or even different setting. In December 1989, Cabinet
surprised the industry and many observers when it decided to decontrol
fertilizer prices. This decision was consistent with earlier steps taken
to decontrol prices of speciality fertilizers and trace elements, but it
seems to have been reached without the elaborate study that had been
expected. One can only speculate as to the reasons. One local press
article preferred to speculate, for example, that the successful decontrol
of meat prices (in February 1987) had paved the way. Perhaps there is a



- 18 -
lesson in this for adjustment lending, whenever there is a wide choice of
adjustment targets. Selecting adjustment targets for their demonstration
value has the merit of being less staff intensive, less ambitious than was
the effort (in SAL II) to change NCPB, and less needful of TA.
D. ASAO Procurement
5.13     OED recently reported on the Bank's experience in planning and
monitoring procurement under 29 selected policy-based operations, one of
which was ASAO.1O Regarding those cases where loans financed general
imports, or goods defined through negative lists or broadly defined
positive lists (19 out of the 29 cases), the OED report concludes that
borrowers generally requested Bank reimbursement for eligible imports that
had already been completed at the eligibility date. That is, they rarely
initiated new procurement within the context of the loans. Their purpose
was to obtain fast loan disbursements. ASAO procurement, which conformed
with this general experience, illustrates how readily even well-laid plans
to pursue a variety of procurement objectives can become subordinated to
the disbursement objective.
5.14     In the course of its visit to Kenya in 1988 on other business, the
Bank's Internal Auditing Department (IAD), at OED's request, reviewed ASAO
procurement. According to IAD, ASAO preparation included a study of local
commercial practices with respect to fertilizer procurement, and Bank staff
provided the Borrower with guidelines for procurement, disbursement, and
accounting. These guidelines provided for the use of customary commercial
procurement procedures for all commercial imports and of Government
procurement guidelines for purchases by the Government and parastatals.
For procurements over $2 million, ICB and ex post facto review by the Bank
were required. Goods for financing were to be identified by means of
applications for import licenses so that procurement practices could be
monitored. Hence, Bank preparation efforts had taken advantage of the fact
that the main importers of some categories of sector imports could be
identified, and staff had evaluated their procurement practices with the
intention of monitoring them during Bank supervision. Despite these
careful preparations, however, the Bank's supervision of procurement was
soon to be focused almost exclusively on the problems of speeding up
disbursements.
5.15     As mentioned in the PCR (para. 47), disbursement of the first
tranche was delayed after effectiveness by about 5 months while Government
worked out the best way to do it. According to IAD, Kenya's Treasury staff
identified commercial imports by visiting commercial enterprises and from a
list of letters of credit under which payments were made by commercial
banks. The importer and his bank were requested to provide the supporting
documentation which were then sent to the Bank's Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa (RMEA). RMEA staff reviewed the documents to identify items
that qualified for financing and to ascertain that the documentation was
10 See OED Report No. 8341, A Review of Procurement in Policy-Based
Lending, January 19, 1990.



- 19 -
COMM~NS MM01 IQ~ B011M                            ATTACHMENT I
(Page 1 of 6)
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Tdeiqi-M UWUNAIROB                                     KLMO HOUJSE
Telbm 723701                                           CATHEALROAD
!V/9WrS /tC/.3/2A VOL 1                                .. OX A86
.......... .......................                    NARtOBL
When replying pleaw quote                                    19th June   90
Ref. No.................................
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
WORLD BANK
Nairobi
Kenya
Dear Sir,
Re: Kenya-Agriculture Technical Assistance
Project (credit 1_77-KE)and Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Operation (Credits
1717-KE and AP 0,.1-KE)
Project Performance Audit Report
Please refer to your letter of 25th April, 1990,
written to .r. Simon Lesrima, our Permanent Secretary
regarding the above mentioned projects.
Enclosed herewith find a copy of our dinistry's
comments on the project performance Audit Report.
Yours faithfully,
.  cess
for: PER?IAENT SECRETARY
Encl.



- 20 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 2 of 6)
COMMENTS ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT FOR
ASAO I (Credits 1717 KE AND AFOE - KE)
1.   The first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASO 1)
was designed to support Goverment sectoral adjustments to
strengthen inputs supply, agricultural prices, budget rationalisation,
sector management and streamlining of parastatals. It was
supported by US $ 60 million (latter adjusted to US$ 71.2 Million)
in IDA and special facility for sub-sahara Africa. It also
attracted US$ 182.1 million from EEC, Notherlands, West Germany,
Japan, Saudi Fund and Denmark.
2.   ASAO's US$ 60 million was supposed to finance the foreign
exchange costs of fertiliser, US $ 18 million (30%) pestcides
and chemicals US $ 16 million (26.7%) agricultural machinery and
spares US $ 10.5 million (17.5%) petroleum US $ 6 million (10%)
veterinary supplies (8.3%) transport and equipment US $ 3 million
(5%) and seeds US $ 1.5 million (2.5%). The livestock sector
only directly benefited from the US$ 5 million (8.3%) of ASAO funds.
3.   In ASAO's technical assistance project-the Agricultural
sector management project (ASMP) the emphasis was on grain marketing
and pricing, land tenure, KRE.MU, management improvement for
MOA and LMD, expansion of micro-processors programme and training.
As discussed in the comments, on ATAP, the greatest impact in the
livestock sector was in finacial management and training. However,
due to various changes which have taken place in MOA and MLD (i.e
combination and separation) and the problem of retention of trained
personnel the impact may not be realised.
4.  Under ASAO 1 the only issues relating to the livestock sector
included - phased program for increasing user-charges for the
livestock sector, designing a national livestock development programme
and budget rationalisation. All other issues related to MOA.
It appears that the livestock sector apart from the training aspect
was not given much emphasis.. Similarly under the ASAO 11 the only
aspect being given emphasis is the dairy sector.
.../2



_ 21 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 3 of 6)
5.   In the livestock sector various drastic changes have
taken place e.g. decontrol of livestock-meat prices in February
1987, decontrol of animal feeds prices in 1989 and introduction
of cost-sharing and privatisation. These changes will impact
heavily on the livestock sector in the future and there is a
need for more serious emphasis on the sector.
6.   As discussed in the recent Agricultural Growth Prospects,
the constraints of markets, management investment and credit,
inputs etc, still plague the livestock sector and the country
is likely to import meat in the future. The sector also faces
problems in obsolete processing technology and this hampers the
development of by-products for an integrated livestock development
strategy. These issues need more analysis.
7.    As a conclusion it can be said that the ASAO 1 and its
complementary TA (ASMP) has served its purpose especially in
building the Ministerial absorption and analytical capability,
but it is felt that the livestock sector was not given a lot
of emphasis especially the issues relating to decontrol,
cost sharing, privatisation and existing constraints.



- 22 -
ATTACH1CET I
(Page 4 of 6)
3~~~~~ i  JUL NO
REPUBLIC OF VENYA
MINISTRY OF UVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
T.sgWwum: IUOU KAMMOB                                 ZILMO HOUSE
T.1.pbhm7:                                              CT8370R9A
f calio or tuapbaskif                                  CATHEDRALfROAD
.. .. . . ...........   I.................            NAZROBL
When replying p1cas quote                        ..2.a.tl ... tlneL. 19 .
Ref. No. .3mLD/ZR/IBRDL).3/2A VOL 1
mr. Graham DonSdson,
Chief, Agriculture, Infrasturcture and
Human Resources Division,
World Bank
NAIROBI
Kenya
Dear Sir,
RE: KENYA -AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
-     PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
PROJECT COiMPLETION REPORT
Enclosed herewith please find a copy of our Ministry's
comments on the ATAP's Project Completion Report for
your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Echessa
for: PERMANENT SECRETARY



- 23 -
ATTACHMT I
(Page 5 of 6)
BRIEF COMMENTS ON THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOR AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1277-KE)
Introduction:
The Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP) was
conceived as a policy-oriented project to strengthen Government
capability to plan and implement policies, improve, management
and budgeting and to strengthen institutional capabilities of
KREMU and NCPB. ATAP was a complement to the policy based
structural Adjustment Program (SAL II) related to land policy,
marketing development and absorptive capacities of agricultural
Ministries.
General Comments on ATAP:
Out of the total amount of SDR 5.4 million the largest share
of 48% was utilised for consultants, vehicles and equipment
10.1% microprocessors 11%, training 10.3% and civil works 10.6%.
There was considerable, reallocation during the project and the
shares to consultants and microprocessors went up while those
for vehicles and training went down. Of particular concern is
the drop from SDR 700,000 to 558,000 for training. Most of the
training was for the critical areas of financial management,
budgeting, management, policy formulation, and project preparation.
The reallocation of funds may have hurt the training programme
although most of the funds went to the purchase of microprocessors
which were also needed.
ATAP and the Ministry of Livestock Development
During the period of ATAP the MInistry of Livestock
Development was combined with the Ministry of Agriculture and
this may have lessened the impact of ATAP - the Livestock sector,
especially in critical areas of livestock policy analysis,
planning, and budget and finacial management and these are
still weak areas.
../2



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT I
Issues on ATAP                                       (Page 6 of 6)
ATAP has been important in institutional building especially
in training and provision of micro-processors. This has enhanced
the officers analytical capability in planning, policy analysis
and project preparation. However, ATAP could have done more in
providing funds for more field work and research by Gover-nment
officers. It should also orovide more funds for consultancies
for officers together with external consultants to enhance their
capabilities in consulting.
In technical Ministries like MLD the planning officers have
to interact more with technical officers who formulate and
implement projects so provision of funds for local workshops on
livestock policy, project preparation, monitoring and evaluation
and computers should have been made to cover a wider range of
officers in other divisions who would use their capability in
project implementation.
Apart from the few improvements which are mentioned above
it is felt that ATAP was beneficial to the Ministry especially
in training. However, the long-term impact cannot be evaluated
as most of the trained people have tended to move to other sectors
of the economy.



S U D A N              >w 
,'                  d                        N.'   T H    0K E N  Y A
At SqO
1)    ,5 ,.,.,.  r/>^g                                       '' U                    ,          /
8          EW SthQlol Eby. S                                 I                           /
5 o        F30 GOII                             g             .1  /1/
to oi ./                                                                                        
S '  \                                                       II  i  I  E   i
it  , e ,    k  t:  V   /              ,      /             I ~~~~~~~SOMALIA
seoo^;4    >              .  f                          X                --. i~~~~~~~~~~MoeI
UGANDA,                                       \ <L'A- S IGARI
MBU          ,\&UX\ 
K) '2.oV   A         L                            ,C C) A
A    F     I     A                                             0rC  nA  0  C.  w o
P6030A03A   TrukO ro<.o
40  0  dO  d                                 ------Roubwo
S_MU COAIIT 1 o * o / " / = . s



S U D A N                                            ' 
//                    $                ,  ,,                               ~~~~~~~E T H I O P I A
f                         I@l,l</K~                                                -          '-A        t         _                                                //
qK4~~~~~~~~~~~~ A s   f R N       
U              G A N D A                            I                 N                              N.___ 
CtVLV I %S3fsx31d  po  1  )    /    H    i                                                                                                                  SOMALIA
TANZANIA                                                        /  A                  M!rt
t  ''  S  , . <3Mr W_< J 1l rC                                                         '
j   C o/i)                              g          7A_R    ......................................... ...  ...............   
T   A    N     Z   A    N   I  A ArsinSSl/  K   0  '\  C  O  A  5  t   --AJf                         Afttk
. . Mol:e. Jmoig-soolo prodoct.on  E l  Nros.tro,  .oI . lS-o.doAf
*R P  g os r   '~  _ _ _  _____ _                                            T
Cofh   -  Secondory roods  o                       xV oo               v                               '.4r          _ - ~~~~~;   ~  ~ . - ~ ~ t  gr ~~ <~ '' -
_____                                                                              A R.wr  X*                                                            '   >      '"''''\             "
*--*  row  a boudsilo            >                      ~           <. '        r                                               I a  -' 
2?b ONsoxs ._._*l+erngelonolboLndorles \ ',{f '. ~IA;EtA 



