Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8798
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1277-KE)
JUNE 22, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a resticted distibuDon and may be used by reipien only in te performcne of
their offkia dutieo Its content may not otdrwise be dbdosed without Word Dank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIA     Appropriations-in-Aid
AIE     Authority to Incur Expenditure
ASAO    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASMP    Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP    Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DPD     Development Planning Division
GIS     Geographical Information System
GOK     Government of Kenya
HIID    Harvard Institute for International Development
KREMU   Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Board
MALD    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MLD     Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
NCPB    National Cereals and Produce Board
PMS     Project Management System
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PS      Permanent Secretary
RMEA    Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
SAL II Second Structural Adjustment Operation
TA      Technical Assistance
TAP     Technical Assistance Pool
TOR     Terms of Reference



FM OVCiAL UR ONLY
TME WORLD BANK
Waslungton. D.C. 20433
USA
o0c of Oimcto4-udl
June 22, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE MEECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt Project Completion Report on Kenya - Agricultural
Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1277-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1277-KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
Attachment
This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by cipiens Oly in the perfomance
of their oflcal duie. Its contents way not otherwis be diselsd witout Wodd Dank authrlaton.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
XENYA - Aaricultural Technical Assistance Project
Credit 1277-KE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                I
Basic Data Sheet                                                      ii
Evaluation Summary                                                     v
I.     Introduction and Background                                     1
II.    Project Identification                                          3
III.   Project Preparation and Appraisal                               3
IV.    Project Objectives                                              3
V.    Project Implementation                                           4
-  Coordination and Implementation                           4
-  Policy Oriented Studies and Action                        5
-  Institutional Development                                 7
VI.    Project Costs and Financing, Disbursements and Auditing        11
VII.   Government Performance and Institution Building                12
VIII.  Adherence to Covenants                                         13
IX.    IDA Performance                                                13
X.     Summary of Lessons Learned                                     14
ANNEXES:  1.  Studies and Consultants                                 17
2.  Resident Experts Financed                              21
3.  Training                                               22
4.  Disbursement by Category of Expenditures               23
ATT&CHUMST I: Comments from the Ministry of Planning and
National Development                                  25
MAP: IBRD 12438R3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1277-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
The SDR 5.4 million credit (Cr. 1277-KE) for the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project was approved by the Board on July 1, 1982,
signed on July 21, 1982 and became effective on October 19, 1982. The
credit was closed on November 30, 1986, one year after the original closing
d te. To allow disbursements for comnitments already made, withdrawal
applications were accepted after the closing date, with the final
disbursement on July 3, 1987, when the credit was fully disbursed and the
account closed.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared b-y the
Agriculture Section in the Resident Mission in Nairobi based on, inter
alia, the project appraisal report, supervision reports, and communications
files. The PCR has been discussed with the Goverrment.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for comments and
they are attached to the Report (Attachment I).



- ii. -
AQRICULTIRAL TECHNICAL ASSIS7ACE PROJECT
(Cr. No. 1277-XE)
PROJECT COIMPLtSN &EPO
Basic Data Sheet
Actual        Actual as 2
Appraisal   or Current    of Appraisal
Key Proiect Data                    Estimate    Estimate        Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ m)               7.0          7.0           100
Credit Amount (SDR m)                    5.4         5.4            100
- Disbursed                            5.4         5.4            100
- Cancelled                            -           0.0              -
- Repaid                                           0.0 °
- Outstanding                          -           5.4              -
Financing Plan (SDR m)
IDA Credit                             5.4         5.4            100
Governnent                              .9         0.9            100
Date Board Approval                      -         7/1/82
Date of Signing                          -         7/21/82
Date of Effectiveness                    -        10/19/82
Date Physical Components Completed   07/1/85    06/30/86              -
Proportion tben Completed                -           100              -
Closing Date                           12/1/85    11/30/86            -
Cumulative Disbursements (SDR m)
flU      flU       MAI     flt        EAMf
Appraisal Estimates         0.1A/      2.1      4.0       4.9      5.4
Actual                      -          -        2.0       2.5      4.3       5.4
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimates        0          0       50        51       79       100
Date of Final
Disbursement               July 3, 1987
STAFFWEVXS*
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    Total
Preappraiaal         9.3
Appraisal           25.0                                                  25.
Negotiation          9.9                                                   S.0
Supervision                10.8   12.5   16.6   21.8   11.5    2.6        75.7
Other  1.2                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.2
?otal               45.4   1C.8   12.5   16.6   21.8   11.5    2.6    121.1
91 The project became effective in FY83; however a PPF was authorized in
May 1982 (PY82).
* Excludes time spent by Young Professionals.



- iii -
MISSION   DATA
Mission/BTO               Date   No.of Persons  Specialization                      Type of
Reapresented    Status   Trend    Problem
Supervision I           10/82          2            E,F           -         -         -
Supervision II          02/83          2             E,           2         2         M,
Supervision III a/      03/83          1            F,            -         -         -
Supervision IV a/       04/83          2             E            1         1         M
Supervision V           04/83          2            E,F           1         1         M
Supervision VI a/       07/83          1            E             -         -         -
Supervision VII a/      11/83          1            -             -         -         -
Supervision VIII        11/83          1            MS            1         1         M
Supervision IX a/       03/84          1            E             -         -         -
Supervision X   a/      04/84          1            -             -         -         -
Supervision XI a/       04/84          1            -             -         -         -
Supervision XII         04/84          1            E,            1         1         M,O
Supervision XIII        11/84          1            E,            1         2         M,O
Supervision XIV a/      ll/84          1             E            -         -         -
Supervision XV a/       01/85          1            F,            -         -         -
Supervision XVI a/      02/85          1                          -         -         -
Supervision XVII ai     03/85          4          E,F,MS,         -         -         -
Supervision XVIII       03/85          4         E,F,R,OA,        1         2         N,O
Supervision XIX         07/85          3          E,OA,R          1         2         M,O
Supervision XX          12/85          5         E,F,R,MS,        1         2         M,0
Supervision XXI a/      03/85          2            E,R           -         -         -
Supervision XXII a/     03/86          1            OA            -         -         -
Supervision XXIII       07/86          3          E,OA,R          1         1         0
Supervision XXIV a/     10/86          1            E             -         -         -
Supervision XXV a/      12/86          5          E,OA,MS         -         -         -
(1)     E -   Economist
F -    inancial Analyst
MS   Management Specialist
OA,   Operations Assistant
BR    Resource Ecologist
(2)    M1    Managerial
0     Other problems
(3)     a/    Back-to-Office (BTO) only
(4)     (-)   Information not available.



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borror                               -  )vGrennmt of Reya
Eeutig Agencies:                     - Ministry of Agriculture
- Ministry of Livestock Development
- KYa Aragelari Ecological
- Monitoring Unit (KREM[)
- Office of the Presidert
- Mi. --y of Finance arn Planrg
- Na_ aml Cereals axi Produce Baard (NB)
Fiscal Year                                  : Jul,  - Jure O
me of Qwrency                                : Kenya Shilling (KSh.)
Appraisal Year Average   : US$- K 1s 10.922
Intervenirg Years Average: US$1             - KShs 14.719
Completion Year Average : US1                IKShs 16.226
Follo-on-Prot:  Agricultural Sector  l       t   Project
Credit Nmb              : 1718-KE
Credit Amunt             SDR 10.2 million
Credit Agreement Data   : Febnrary 10, 1987



KENYA AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1277-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.      The sluggish performance of Kenya's agricultural sector between the mid
1970's and early 1980's was attributed to adverse weather conditions,
inappropriate agricultural pricing policies, poor budget and finanieal
management procedures in the agricultural ministries, and poor land use and
tenurial policies. The Government of Kenya began addressing these issues in
the Second Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II), approved in July 1982, which
included, among others, a number of measures and policy changes to promote
growth In agriculture. The Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP)
was identified during preparation of SAL II to support Goveroment initiatives
in the areas of land policy, marketing development and issues relating to the
absorptive capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of
Livestock Development (MLD).
Objectives
2.      ATAP was conceived as complementary to SAL II by providing technical
support in the following main areass (i) strengthening Government capability
to plan and implement policies to improve producer incentives and rationalize
pricing and marketing policies, particularly for the main grains; (ii)
development of sound and long-term agricultural policies on land tenurel (Iii)
improving management and budgeting in MOA and MLD; and (iv) strengthening the
institutional capabilities of the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit
(XREMU) and the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). These activities
were supported through an IDA credit of US$6.0 million which financed vehicles,
equipment, microprocessors, consultancy and experts services, trainin on
general and financial management and budgeting, and formulation and analysis of
agricultural policies in the planning units of the Ministries Involved.
Implementation Experience
3.      Overall, ATAP met its objectives and was implemented satisfactorily,
although with a delay of about one year in a five year project. Implemetation
was successful in the areas of institutional strengthening (particularly in the
KREMU component), general and financial management, budgeting practices and
procedures, and training of economists in MOA and MLD. The impact of these
activities, measured in terms of improved financial management, sectoral
management capabilities, and agricultural policy formulation and analysis was
evident during project implementation. However, implementation of two key
components (a study on improved grain marketing and pricing policies, and a
review and program design for improved land tenure policies) lagged behind



- vi -
expectations. The grain marketing reform was delayed, but subsequently
supported by a follow-up policy operation. The land issues were addressed only
partly. primarily because of their political sensitivity and shifting
Government commitment to tackle these issues.
Results
4.      The political sensitivity of land tenure related issues was
underestimated at project formulation. Delayed action was finally taken in
respect of a study of sub-division issues, but no action was taken to prepare a
project involving the sub-division of group farms. ATAP was able to support
institutional strengthening of KREMU, which is contributing to the generation
and analysis of land use data; this information will provide an important input
to formulating effective land tenure policies once Government decides to
address this sensitive issue.
5.      The grain marketing and policy questions were also found to be
sensitive. The political dimensions of liberalization measures were not fully
recognized by the Bank at negotiations. For this reason, and because of the
drought of 1984, the Government-Bank Group dialogue on grain marketing policy
did not reach successful conclusion during prcject implementation. However,
studies carried out and the dialogue initiated under the project helped create
awareness and commitment in Government, ultimately resulting in adoption of
grain marketing liberalization policies. This reform program was subsequently
supported under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO).
Sustainability
7.      The project initiated important programs of institutional et i-ge and
strengthening which are proving beneficial in the formulation of policies and
implementation of programs, services and projects. Institution building is a
long-term process and a follow-up project (the Agricultural Sector Management
Project) to build on ATAP activities and expand technical assistance to a wider
range of agricultural sector institutions was approved in 1986.
Findings and Main Lessons
8.      The project's achievements and shortfalls highlight four major lessons
which are relevant to similar institution-building operations in Kenya and
other Borrower countries.
(a)   Complementarity with Policy-based Lending Operations.  ATAP illustrated
the importance of two features which complement policy-based
operations: linking technical assistance and institution-building
activities to a policy-based operation (i.e. SAL II); and having an
instrument which could promote IDA dialogue with Government on
sensitive policy issues beyond the limited implementation period of SAL
II and which could be used to respond flexibly to this dialogue. ATAP



- vii -
highlighted the importonce of using the right process at the right time
in politically sensitive institutional and policy areas.
(b)   Active Role of Government in Process Changes.  One of the major reasons
for the successful ATAP activities supporting reforms in the budget
process was related to the active role of Government in the planning.
formulating and implementation phases, with strong commitment by able
senior officials.
(c)   Implementation Arrangements and Government Commitment.  The design of
multi-component projects such as ATAP should attempt to reduce
coordination requirements. These types of projects require strong
commitment of senior Government officials and implementing staff in
order to ensure adequate implementation of various project components.
Cd)   Intensity of Bank Group Supervision:  Technical assistance and
institution-building operations such as ATAP require intensive Bank
supervision inputs. These inputs provide the opportunity to promote
effective operational dialogue with Government and for the
identification and preparation of related follow-up operations. In
addition, when 'olitical difficulties relating to grain marketing
liberalization and land issues surfaced, the Bank responded flexibly
(i.e. concentrated largely on institutional building components of the
project, and picked up the grain marketing issue under a subsequent
program).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTMRAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1277-XE)
I.  IxTRODjCTIoN AND BACKGROUND
1.01    The sluggish periormance of the agricultural sector in the late
1970s had been a cause of concern for Kenya. The excellent performance
of the sector in the decade after Independence (1964 to 1974) had been
succeeded by a period of lagging growth, with fluctuating and sometimes
negative growth rates, averaging 2.9% between 1974 and 1979. In
addition to adverse weather, a number of institutional issues related to
the sector management capabilities had been identified as key
contraints to performance of agriculture and GoverDment's ability to
effect a meaningful intervention in the sector. Most important among
these vere Issues involving prtcing and marketing, land policies, and
improved instdtutional and management processes and capacity.
1.02    Pricina and marketina issues.  Main problems in this area
Included pan-territorial priclng vith no seasonal differentiation,
weakness in the price setting criteria and pricing delays which gave at
times the wrong signals to producers and resulted in inefficient
resource use. In the context of grain marketing main issues were the
negative impact of GOK m&'keting intervention on market development,
lack of transparence and limited coverage of the system, a generalized
lack of incentives for the private sector to invest and participate in
agricultural marketing activities, and inefficient parastatal marketing
bodies, resulting in significant financial losses and budgetary burden
at the macro level.
1.03    Land Issues.  The relative scarcity of land in Kenya, combined
with the rapid increase in population raised two broad Issues related to
land tenure and to land use; first, there was the need to legalize the
de facto sub-division of group owned farms, and second to develop a
medium-term land tenure and land use policies. In this context it was
understood that the COX broadly agreed to carry out measures and assist
protecting land resources and to effect policy changes which would
address the land tenure equity-related issues and increase access of
landless to land.
1.04    Institutional and Manasement Issues.  Direct Government
intervention in the agricultural sector grew rapidly in the post
independence years. A growing appreciation of the resulting costs and
the limited administrative capacity of the Government had begun to
temper this trend, especially in light of economic problems and
budgetary constraints. However, there was the need to examine the form
and extent of future Government intervention in the agricultural
sector. Also major institutional weakness and constraints in both the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Livestock Development
(MMD) vere identified as key elements of the poor performance of the
agricultural sector. The proliferation of institutions and parastatals
operating in the agricultural sector made the coordination of policy



making and program implementation difficult. The ability of in-line
ministries to effectively coordinate and implement projects was weak,
resulting in generalized implementation delays and itability to deliver
services to the sector. Also a generalized poor administration, high
turnover and low staff morale, financial and other management controls
resulted in a poor record of project implementation and inability to
spend budgeted funds. In summary, there was a great need for
establishing an objective oriented budget preparation system and for
improving financial management and accounts control.
1.05    The major source of technical assistance in the agricultural
sector during the 1976-86 period was the multi-donor funded Technical
Assistance Pool (TAP), at the time in its second phase, providing
expatriate resident advisors to the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock
Development, and Economic Planning and Development. To the sector, TAP
provided advisors in the areas of agricultural strategy and planning,
commodity analysis and pricing, management, project preparation, and
post-graduate training to local planning officers of MOA and MLD. A
major problem in the past had been the proliferation of technical
assistance to MOA and MLD, which led to poor coordination and
supervision; TAP was also addressing this issue by coordinating most of
the advisory services through one administrating agency (the Harvard
Institute for International Development - HIID).
1.06    The Government of Kenya had started addressing the above issues
in the Second Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II), which included
among others, a number of measures and policy changes to promote growth
in agriculture. In particular, the programme attempted to address the
key short term problems; pricing, marketing, land issues, and
institutional issues, and to build on the long term development
objectives outlined in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-1983).
Short-term recovery of the sector was to be promoted through adjustment
of pricing and marketing policies, regularization of land subdivision,
and removal of budget and management bottlenecks in the key operational
ministries. The longer term issues of land policy, marketing
development, and those related to the absorptive capacity of MOA and MLD
were also to be addressed. The Agricultural Technical Assistance
Project (ATAP) identified during preparation of the SAL II would support
Government initiatives in these areas.
1.07    The SAL II main issues to be addressed in the agricultural
sector, in support of policy changes implemented by GOK, were: (i)
structural problems affecting incentives to producers and marketing of
maize and other grains; a study would be undertaken to recommend policy
changes in marketing, pricing, and role of the different participating
agents, (GOK, cooperatives and private); the study would also include
recommendations regarding food security, marketing development and the
establishment of marketing data system; (ii) to carry out a systematic
review of land policy issues and submit recommendations for the
consideration of GOK and (iii) to improve management of the agricultural
development process, budgetary allocation capabilities and the financial
administration of MOA and MLD.



- 3 -
II. PROJEGT IDEPTIFICATIQB
2.01   A detailed review of major sectoral issues had been carried out
in the "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum" issued in June 1981; major
recommendations of the report had been subject to substantive discussion
with Government. During appraisal of SAL II (July, 1981) the provision
of technical assistance was considered as an alternative to the shortage
of qualified manpower to address these issues and general agreement was
reached in the need fo: ATAP. Details of ATAP were to be firmed-up on
the basis of the fir-, esign of SAL II.
-   'ROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
3.01   The implementation of the ATAP was designated to complement SAL
II, therefore, preparation and appraisal of ATAP was carried out in
parallel to the timetable of SAL II. A project pre-appraisal mission
took place in October 1981, and the project was appraised in
January/February 1982. Negotiations based in a Report and
Recommendations to the President (there was no Appraisal report for the
Credit), were held in Washington D.C. on April 15 and 16 and concluded
on May 6 1982. Delays in completing negotiations were due to linkages
and cross-conditionality with SAL II involving sensitive issues on given
marketing and land tenure. These policy-related issues arising from
ATAP negotiations could not be resolved until after negotiations of SAL
II. The project was approved by the Board on July 1, 1982 and the
Credit Documents signed on July 21, 1982.
IV. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.01   The main objective of ATAP was to support the Government's
structural adjustment programme and the related SAL II in the
agricultural sector by providing technical assistance to address key
issues affecting performance. The project was to support the
implementation of policy conditions agreed under SAL II, which was the
main vehicle for sector dialogue on major policy issues. Specifically,
the project would provide technical assistance to the agencies over a
period of three years for three main components:
(i) Grain Pricina and Marketing:
o     review of grain (maize and wheat) marketing;
o     preparation of action plans to implement Government
policies on grain marketing, promote market
development and improve national food security;
o     improvement of the quality of grain statistics;
(ii) Land Policv:
o     review of existing land subdivision and formulation
of a project to accelerate its regularization;
o     improvement of land use data through support of the
Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU);



- 4-
(iii) Management and Budget:
o     improvement of management and budgeting in MOA and
MLD;
o     improvement of agricultural development strategies
and planning, commodity analysis and project
preparation through the Technical Assistance Pool.
To meet these objectives, the Project included about 215
man-months of short-term consultancy services and 6
man-years of advisory services. The project also provided
resources to finance 10% of the cost of 47 man-years of
advisory services under the TAP.
4.02   Proiect Manaxement.  MOA and MLD would be responsible for project
implementation through its in line Agencies/Units. A Steering
Committee, to be jointly chaired by the Permanent Secretary (PS) of MOA
and MLD, including senior representatives of both ministries, would be
established to provide overall guidance and supervision of
implementation. Day-to-day activities would be responsibility of a
Project Coordinator; the Grain Marketing Study would be supervised by an
inter-ministerial committee; and, KREMU would be responsible for
Improvement of the land use data component.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMINTATION
5.01   On balance, project implementation performance was satisfactoryj
although delayed and les3 than expected in two components. The
Institutional strengthening objectives were successfully carried out
under the KREMU component and the activities related to the management
and budgetary component, including establishment and implementation of a
Project Registry, and Project Management System, monitoring of
expenditures and introduction of microprocessors in key work centers and
training of MOA and MLD staff (merged in one Ministry during project
Implementation). Impact of these activities, measured in terms of
Improved financial management, policy making and sectoral management
capabilities of the agencies, was evident early during the project
implementation period. In particular, the process changes introduced
through the project to strengthen the budget rationalization program in
the agriculture sector were significant project achievements which are
now being replicated by Government in other sectoral Ministries.
Implementation and impact fell short of the stated objectives, however,
in parts of two of the three key components of the project -   the grain
marketing and pricing study and the review and program to ease the land
tenure and use aspects. In retrospect, the political sensitivity of
grain marketing and land issues, which Bank staff were well aware of,
proved stronger than the GOK commitment at negotiations and IDA's
ability to influence GOK action on these during project implementation.
Moreover, SAL II, and not ATAP, was the main vehicle for promoting the
policy decisions and their implementation.
Coordination and Imnleentation
5.02   As agreed in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), a Project
Steering Committee was set up and project coordinators appointed at the
outset. These two task groups provided the overall guidance, addressed



*     5             ~~~~~~~~~t
special problemo which arose and supervised project implementation.
Effectiveness of the project coordinators and of the steering committee,
in addition to the merging of MOA and MLD, which took place during
project, was limited. For example, the coordinators changed five times
during the first two years, and the Steering Committee involved three
major changes in MOA's management, in addition to merging of MOA and
NLD, which occured during project implementation. These unforeseen
changes made supervision and follow-up of project particularly difficult
and unsystematic. These coordination problems did not affect adversely
project implementation, given divisible nature of project components and
commitment of senior Government officials to the components. Management
of the [REMU component, hovever, did not change during the whole
implementation period which may largely account for the successful
implementation of the component. HIID continued with a similar contract
as in TAP of managing project activities in the areas of Training, the
Budget Task Force, and the Microprocessor Programme.
Policy Oriented Studies and Action
5.03 Grain Marketing and Pricina. Administrative delays slowed the
selection of consultants for the grain marketing and pricing study, a
key component of the structural adjustment programme. Five consultant
proposals were submitted to the government by September 30, 1982. An
Inter-Ministerial Committee, including representatives from the
ministries of Agriculture, Office of the President, Finance and Economic
Planning were established to evaluate the proposals and supervise the
study; the Government completed the selection of candidates in the first
veek of November of 1982. Notification of completion of evaluation and
copies of the winning proposal and Government's evaluation report was
sent to the Bank in the second week of November. The winning proposal
was reviewed by both Headquarters and RHEA staff, and comments sent to
the Government on November 22 the same year. Final agreement was
delayed because IDA was not satisfied with the selection process nor
with the study proposal made by the selected firm. The bids were also
extremely close. Therefore IDA requested to reopen the process and
re-evaluate the three top bids, the government could not agree to this
and a compromise based on changes in the team composition and the study
proposal was reached. The contract was finally signed on March 2, 1983
and key members of the consultant team were in the field by March 21,
1983.
5.04   An interim report focussing primarily on the definition of policy
options by Government was issued by the consultants in June 1983. The
draft final copy was submitted to the Government in October 1983, some
nine months later than the date specified in the DCA (January 31,
1983). The conclusion and recommendations which were presented to a
joint meeting of Bank and Government covered a wide range of measures
aimed at liberalising the grain marketing system to reduce Government
costs while retaining a reasonable degree of security for both producers
and consumers. Market liberalisation would take place in a phased
approach, each stage being monitored prior to the next set of more
radical measures being introduced. Recommendations focussed largely in
introducing greater flexibility into the system through the progressive
reduction of Government involvement leaving individual entrepreneurs to
play an increasing role in the grain market. Government would however
be responsible for market stability, food security and the maintenance
of strategic reserve stocks while NCPB would become a buyer and seller
of last resort able to guarantee the domestic purchase and sale of maize
at gazetted prices.



- 6 -
5.05   Additional work on private sector marketing was requested from
the consultants and a full, final draft report, sent to the IDA for
comments in November, 1983. A Government proposal, outlining the
changes to be implemented in grain pricing and marketing policy,
required as condition for releasing the second tranche of SAL II was
sent to the Bank in December, 1983 and the second tranche was released.
These proposals were generally inconclusive and vague, and it became
apparent in the following months that the Government had little
intentions on following up on it. As discussed below, the drought of
1984 made it hardly conducive to effecting major reforms in given
marketing, vehicle already was resisted by Government 1/.
5.06   The Bank's comments to the study, sent to GOK in early February
1984, focussed primarily on the steps to be taken to draw up an action
programme and implement the proposed changes. As a result of the Bank's
comments, a GOK/IDA committee to draft an action plan was nominated.
Because of the political sensitivity of the issues and Government's
distrust of involving private tenders in maize marketing because of
possible exploitation of farmers (i.e. "low" prices paid to producers),
the terms of reference (TOR) of the committee had to be approved by the
Cabinet. These TOR were apparently submitted to the Cabinet, but never
finalized, partly due to the 1984 drought and to Government's lack of
commitment to grain market liberalization and the 1984 drought. The
unforeseen drought, which resulted in nearly one half the expected maize
harvest, proved to be a major legitimate constraint in securing
Government commitment to adopt and implement the study's
recommendations. Hence, the committee never met, and GOK/IDA dialogue
on marketing policy reforms under ATAP ended until discussions were
resumed in about 1985. The unforeseen establisbment of a new marketing
agency in July 1984 (the Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union), which
emerged during the 1984 drought, was considered a reversal to earlier
statements regarding marketing liberalization. The Bank recognized
GOK's preoccupations with proceeding with grain marketing reform during
the drought, and shifted its dialogue and emphasis in project
implementation to institution-building aspects. Moreover, the Bank
recognized that ATAP was not the vehicle for given marketing dialogue
and reforms, also because the SAL II second and final tranche had been
released. The Bank group pursued this dialogue through other means when
circumstances and GOK commitment improved (eventually the Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Operation, Cr. 1717-KE, of July 1986).
5.07   On institutional building aspects, the findings and
recommendations of the study led to the appointment of a new financial
advisor to restructure NCPB's accounts. Consultants were also engaged
to assist improving NCPB's computerised accounting system and, 12 months
of tecbnical assistance, to support implementation of some
organizational changes in NCPB, were financed by the project.
Assistance to NCPB was later expanded under the follow-up project (the
1/     Further details on SAL's II unsuccessful attempt to effect grain
marketing liberalization is discussed in the Ardit Report and
attached PCR. See the SAL II Program Perform. ce Audit Report,
OED, September 28, 1984.



Agricultural Sector Management Project - ASMP, Credit 1718-KE).
Further, findings and recommendations of the study were the basis for
restructuring of NCPB and continuing the dialogue on marketing issues
under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (Cr. 1717-KE).
5.08   Land Issues.  Part B of the project provided resources to carry
out a review of de facto subdivision of group-owned farms and related
issues and constraints related to land tenure and use. Specifically, it
provided for formulation of a program and the preparation of a project
to: (i) ease the constraints identified uader the review to accelerate
the subdivision process and (ii) to provide needed agricultural services
to areas affected. Terms of reference and a short list of consultants
for review of subdivision of group farms were sent to the Bank by
Ministry of Agriculture in March 1982. However, the Government later
withdrew these TOR and the shortlist of consultants and decided these as
part of an in-house review to review these in an Inter-Ministerial
Committee chaired by the PS/Ministry of Lands, Settlement and Physical
Planning. Members of the committee included senior representatives of
the Ministries of Environment and Natural Resources, Lands and
Settlement, Agriculture, Livestock Development, Finance, Planning and
Office of the President, the Attorney General's Chambers, and the
Presidential Commission on soil Conservation. The Committee met for the
first and only time in March 1983, with terms of reference drafted by
the Ministry of Planning. The TOR for this review were submitted to IDA
in March 1983 and were found satisfactory. The review was completed in
June 1983. With regards to a second element where Government agreed to
take all measures to ensure the preparation of a project for the
sub-division of group farms to be completed by end-March 1983,
Government did not carry out this action. While Government was
apparently committed to carrying out the project preparation at the time
of ATAP's appraisal, there was a shift in the political situation in the
country beginning at the time of negotiations, with greater power
concentrated in the Office of the President. This shift was associated
with Government resistance to addressing the sensitive land issues,
hence explaining partly the lack of progress in this component.
Institutional Development
5.09   Assistance to Kenya Rangeland Ecological MonitorinR Unit
(KREMU). The component's objective was to upgrade KREMU's technical
capabilities in increasing its data output and providing background
information in the areas of land use and natural resources. Two
activities were supported: land use mapping and the introduction of a
Geographical Information System (GIS).
5.10   The project enabled KREMU to embark on the preparation of a land
use map for Kenya based on Landsat imagery and aerial surveys, supported
by ground truthing. The project provided support for two expatriate
advisors, a systems ecologist, a resource ecologist and two pilots for
carrying out the aerial surveys (Annex 2). It also provided a
minicomputer and a Geographical Information Systems (GIS) software to
help computerise the data processing activities of KREMU. Generally,
capacity of the agency to collect, analyze and to disseminate data in
support of GOK programs, was greatly enhanced under ATAP.



-8-
5.11   In addition, with technical support from the project, KREMU
carried out vegetation and district land use surveys, maize harvesting
forecasting, and systematic aerial surveys over all the rangelands which
is a noteworthy achievement and demonstrated the feasibility of regular
environmental monitoring of Kenya's rangelands, which was one of the
organization's original main purposes.
5.12   On the whole, the Implementation of the X3RMU  component was
satisfactory and the agency was able to weather problems arising from
being shifted among ministries and from changes in mandate during
project implementation. Problems arose from bureaucratic delays largely
outside the agency's control which affected procurement and clearance of
equipment, completion of civil works, and hiring of key staff for
starting up operations of the GIS. Support to KREEU was continued under
the Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP), ATAP's follow-up
project.
5.13   MOA/MLD Manatement and Budgetina Strenathenint.  The main
objectives of the project was the improvement of general and financial
management (including budgeting) of MOA and MLD.  The project supported
hiring of two advisors in both the MOA and MLD: a budget and finance
advisor and a microprocessor advisor (who was phased out in December
1984). In addition, it provided resources to the Technical Assistance
Pool (TAP), to support approximately 12 additional advisors in the areas
of management, planning, agricultural policy and project preparation.
Some 36 documents were prepared on the above subjects (Annex 1). On
balance the component was satisfactorily implemented and the
institutional building objectives reached; major areas of activities
carried out under the component were:
(i)   Task Force on Budtetina and Financial Manatement. The
project conceived and successfully implemented a unique meebanism
to bring about institutional development and process changes
within the MOA/MLD. This was the Task Force on Budgeting and
Financial Management which met eight times between January, 1982
and November, 1986. The Task Force meetings facilitated a
systematic review of a number of critical issues and resulted in
specific recommendations for improvement, many of which were
carried out. About 32 papers were prepared for discussions in
the Task Force meetings (see Annex I for a full list of these
papers). Altnough the attendance in the first two meetings was
about 35, subsequently the participation improved and on an
average more than 70 officers participated in the meetings,
including representatives from the Minstry of Finance and the
Office of the President. Each meeting was chaired by the
Permanent Secretaries and came out with specific recommendations
for improvement in several areas of budgeting and financial
management within the sector.
The Task Force meetings resulted in identifying an internal
agenda for improvement within the MOA/MLD and facilitated a much
better understanding and consensus, especially by the technical
divisions for such improvements. The major areas were: (a) the
forward budget processes (b) the preparation of the annual
estimates (c) implementation of district focus (d) allocation of
funds (e) expenditure reporting system (f) project management
system (g) vehicle reporting system (h) personnel management
issues and (i) claims for reimbursement from donors.



- 9 -
In retrospect, and relative to the experiences in most African
countries, the Budget task force has proven to be an effective model of
assisting institutional development. In addition to its innovative
approach, the Task Force provided the impetus, the example and the means
for Government to institute a Government-wide budget reform process.
The advisor used for the Task Force was transferred to the Ministry of
Finance to help replicate this process, which has proceeded well.
(ii) Financial Manaaement. Significant improvements were made
under the project in financial management in the sector through
(a) the establishment of an expenditure reporting and monitoring
system; (b) a system of allocation of funds to districts and
implementing units (issuance of AIE's); (c) the disaggregation
and monitoring of the collection of user charges (AIA's in the
recurrent budget); (d) establishment of a management information
calender; and (e) expenditure monitoring for both recurrent and
development accounts. The expenditure monitoring system enabled
the MOA/MLD to review the progress of implementation of projects
and take corrective action in time to identify the bottlenecks.
The issuance of AIE's at the beginning of the financial year has
assisted considerably the field officers to plan their annual
expenditures and implement projects within the given
allocations. Compared to the situation which existed in the
Ministries before the introduction of these budgeta-y -ystems,
they represent significant institutional improvements and
facilitated the smooth implementation of projects in the sector.
These imij.-ovements in financial management were also
institutionalized and have become part of the normal processes
within the MOA/MLD and are now being replicated in other sectoral
Ministries.
(lit)  Bud4eting. Quality and participation of MOA/MLD in the
sector budget preparation process was enhanced through linking
the budget to sectoral policy issues and objectives, improvements
in the forward budgeting process, the preparation and
dissemination of a budget manual and establishment of an active
and effective Agriculture Sector Budget Task Force. Overall, the
quality of the budget itself improved through the use of a
computerized budget planning system, which greatly assisted in
the refinement of budget request, in order to meet the Treasury
ceilings, by computing totals, percentages and average
percentages cuts required. The system also contributed to the
implementation of the Government's District Focus program to
improve district level planning and budgeting.
(iv)  Hmng.ement. The project supported management advisors
through TAP who dealt mainly with parastatal issues, capacity
utilization, personnel issues, the District Focus Policy,
tendering and vehicle management. The project also assisted the
establishment of a Project Management System (PMS) to provide
information required to carry out management responsibilities
efficiently and effectively. Considerable assistance was
provided through the project in translating the national policy
of District Focus for Rural Development within the sector.
Districts were given financial ceilings and guidelines for the
preparation of the forward budget.



- 10 -
(v) Micro-Drocessors. Six microprocessors were introduced in
MALD under the project. Their introduction contributed to
decisions to introduce micro-processors for budgeting in the
Ministry of Finance in other government agencies. The
microprocessors were used in funds allocation, expenditure
reporting, budgeting, the Project Management System and e.
management information systems, and policy analysis and
simulations. One of the important activities of this component
was the training of Kenyan micro computer operators and the
development of self teaching programs. This was successfully
completed leading to intensive use of the computers in budgeting
and financial management and policy analysis by Ministry
officials. In implementing a comprehensive micro computer
program, MALD pioneered the application of micro computers in the
public sector for budget preparation and project and budget
monitoring. As a result, the Treasury started the ambitious
automation program for budget preparation and analysis.
(vi) Training. The project supported short-term overseas
courses in Management, financial management, parastatal
management and micro-nrocessors and some 15 man-months of
consultant services for in-house training. These resources were
complementary to those provided through TAP for overseas
postgraduate training for Development Planning Division (DPD)
economists. Although progress was made under the project to
upgrade the quality of the Kenyan officers, there was a mixed
record in this endeavour. On the one hand selection procedures
were improved and resulted in the intake of higher calibre new
staff, but the rate of retention of qualified economists
(particularly after receiving MA degrees overseas) was
discouraging because the Government's scheme of service for
economists limited the number of higher graded posts and
ultimately DPD's capacity to compete with the private sector,
which frustrated .DPD's attempts to attract and retain promising
young economists. On-the-job training was also provided by the
TAP advisor on budgeting and financial management.
(vii) Policy formulation. The project through TAP provided
support for assistance in strengthening the unnual Price Review
process of major crops and fertilizer and the preparation of the
Development Plan, the Sessional Paper No.1 of 1986, the annual
policy statement for the Ministry setting priorities for projects
and programs to be implemented by the Ministry, and Budget
Rationalization Programme. It also supported contributions to
analysis of sugar, the Bura Irrigation Project, grain marketing
and personnel issues.
(viii) ProJect urenaration. The TAP advisors, supported by ATAP
assisted in the preparation of several projects subsequently
funded by IDA, including the National Extension Project, Dairy
Pilot Project and the National Research Project. In addition,
DPD staff played a major role in the preparation of the report
for the Agricultural Sector Operation and staff of DPD
participated in the appraisal of the operation and prepared terms
of reference of selected studies to be undertaken within the
framework of the operation.



- 11 -
VI.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING, DISBUYSEMENTS AND AUDITING
Proiect Cost and Financing
6.01   Estimated project cost at completion was about U8$ 7.0 million
net of taxes and duties of which US$ 5.1 million (73% of the total) were
foreign exchange costs. The project costs were based on estimates made
in about February 1982 and included about US$ 50,000 of local taxes and
duties. The cost estimation provided 10% for physical contingencies on
all costs except for TAP advisory services, which was mainly to be
funded in the first year of the project (excluding one budget and
finance advisor who was to be funded for all three years).
6.02   The average staff-month cost of consultancy services was
estimated at about US$ 10,000. including salaries overheads, subsistence
and travel. Total costs for equipment, supplies and other minor items
that were to be acquired under the project were estimatad at about US$
1.1 million, while training costs were estimated at about US$ 0.8
million. The project was financed by IDA and the Government of Kenya.
The IDA credit of US$ 6.0 million was to finance all foreign exchange
costs, and US$ 1.0 million in local costs, representing 85% of the total
project costs. The GOK contributed the remaining US$ 1.0 million in
local costs, or about 15% of total project costs.
Disbursements
6.03   The project was expected to finance 100% of total expenditures
for training, conferences and study tours (Annex 4), 100% of fcreign or
80% of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment and consultant
services, except for category 3B (financing of consultants from TAP)
where only 65% of the local expenditures were financed. A fund
reallocation and amendment of the DCA was agreed by IDA on February 18,
1986 to enable NCPB to improve its accounting system and data processing
facilities following recommendations of the grain marketing study. In
this amendment, (i) an additional category was established to finance
civil works for NCPB's computer housing; and, (ii) the closing date of
Cr-1277-KE extended from December 1, 1985 to November 30, 1986. The
project was substantially completed by this date; final disbursements
made, and the credit closed, on July 3, 1987. The rate of disbursements
was affected primarily by start-up delays and by the appreciation of the
SDR from KSh 8.5 at appraisal to approximately KSh 20.4 by end June 1987.
6.04   Final disbursements and the percentages of expend!tures under
each category compare favorably with the appraisal estimates. Total
disbursement of Credit funds reflect favourably in the overall financial
management of the project. In Kenya, frequently withdrawal applications
are slow and Credit funds are cancelled. Major increases in
expenditures reflect closely the emphasis in the NCPB's institutional
building aspects and non utilization of funds for an open ended
consultancy category (3-C) and for reimbursing of PPF funds (not
utilized).
Prolect Accounts and Auditing
6.05   Notwithstanding the success of assistance on budgetary and
financial aspects, long delays were experienced in Government's
submission of audited accounts by ATAP (DCA, section 4.01). The main



- 12 -
reasons for the delay were confusion over auditing requirements and
weakness in accounting and auditing capabilities, including delays in
the Auditor General's office, which were affecting all Bank Group and
other donor proJects in Kenya. These delays were the accounts of the
project were not audited nor submitted to IDA since project inception in
1982. These were finally made a condition of negotiations for ASMP and
submitted to IDA in April 1986.
VII. GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE AND INSTITUTION BUILDING
7.01   Overall, Government performance was satisfactory, with some
delays and shortfalls in various project components. This performance
limited the potential impact of ATAP on these components. In general,
actions were successfully implemented on the institutional building
aspects (MOA, MLD, KREME, NCPB and staff training). However, action
taken on studies related to main policy aspects (grain marketing and
land issues) ranged from acceptable to none at all for reasons discussed
under paras. 5.03 - 5.08.
7.02   Implementation of the grain marketing and pricing study was
delayed due to GOK administrative procedures and IDA's objections -
first, and to the bidding process (the bids were too close), to the
strength of the consultants team and, secondly, to the study proposal
submitted by the consultants. By the time the interim report of the
consultants was issued (June 1983) there were indications that
government was having different views regarding the direction and scope
of changes in grain marketing. Delays in completing the study were
affecting the release of the second tranche of SAL II, and two other
in-house marketing studies were being carried out. Following a joint
review (IDA, GOK and Consultants), the study was submitted to IDA for
comments (November 1983) followed by a letter from government (required
as a condition for releasing of the second tranche of SAL II) outlining
the changes to be implemented in grain marketing and pricing policy.
Follow-up action and IDA/GOK dialogue on marketing issues, other than on
NCPB's institutional building aspects, waned under changing government
policies and the drought of 1984 (paras. 5.05 and 5.06).
7.03   The land tenure aspects are very sensitive issues in Kenya and
the government decided that the component would be best handled in-house
by Kenyans rather than by external consultants. Even then, because of
the socio-political implications of the issue and a shift in Government
commitment to address this complex issue no action was finally taken by
Government in preparing t'.e project for the sub-division of group
farms. ATAP was not the appropriate vehicle to push for reform in this
area. However, under the proposed ASAO II, which is currently under
preparation by GOK, is considering possible steps to address selected
aspects related to the land use policy issues. These actions, however,
would need to be placed in the context of Government's land use
policies, which still needs to be formulated.
7.04 On the positive side, Government actions on the institutional
strengthening aspects were successfully implemented and satisfactory.
Inspite of the problems related to the marketing component, NCPB started
implementation of several of the report's recommendations in the area of
accounting, management and financial and stock management and requested
adcetional assistance (February 1985) to initiate a computerized



- 13 -
financial and stock management system, food security planning, and
training under ATAP. This assistance was later expanded as part of the
second-phase project (ASMP). Also, the ASAO I resumed the Bank's
dialogue with Government on grain marketing reform through supporting
measures which restructured NCPB's organizational and financial
operations, in addition to decisions and measures to implement a phased
liberalization process.
7.05   The KREMU component was also successful.  The Government
responded efficiently especially in the activities of mapping aerial
surveys, environmental land trithing, data collection and analysis.
However, delays related to procurement of equipment and completion of
civil works prevented the GIS component from becoming operational by the
projects closing date. Because of the lack of implementation of the
land component, resources allocated to KRENU to support other agencies
in the area of land use planning, including the preparation of a
proposed project to assist in subdivision, were virtually
underutilized. However, these funds were utilized in other project
components.
VIII. ADHERENCE TO COVENANTS
8.01   Overall, Government compliance with covenants was satisfactory,
although delayed in two components directly related to SAL II, with one
element rot being implemented: to complete the grain marketing study
before January 31, 1983 (section 3.05(i) and, to finalize the land
subdivision review by December 31, 1982 and complete a project for
subdivision of group farms by March 31, 1983 (sections 3.05(i) and
(iii)). Completion of the grain marketing study was a condition for
releasing the second tranche of SAL II. Therefore, delays in meeting
this covenant were a source of problems and tension to both Government
and IDA. Two of the above three covenants were eventually fulfilled,
with a delay of about six months (ref. paras 5.03-5.08). Because of the
political sensitivity, Government did not prepare the envisioned project
for sub-division of group farms.
IX. IDA PERFORMANCE
9.01   Throughout the implementation period of the project, IDA showed
substantial flexibility and, together with Government, took adequate
steps to ensure the project's successful execution. The generally
successful outcome in attaining the institutional building objectives
would support the arguments that intensive supervision/technical
assistance were fully justified.
9.02   Since appraisal, there were 25 supervision missions, most of
which were comprised of 1-2 persons and which were combined with other
related operations IDA was able to maintain an excellent degree of staff
continuity supervising the project since preparation of the same.
Notwithstanding, supervision missions were not able to resolve the
contentious policy issues related to grain marketing and land policy,
primarily because the ATAP was not the intended vehicle for pushing the
needed reforms. By the end of December 1983, when it became
increasingly clear that these issues could not be properly addressed in
the context of ATAP, attention to this matters faded in the background
as action on these was apparently viewed in terms of SAL II dialogue and
on the ASMP.  Increasingly, emphasis of supervision mission shifted in



- 14 -
early 1985 to a mix of supervision of institutional building aspects of
ATAP and preparation of the follow up project. Generally, however, due
to the little continuity of GOK's officials, largely ine-fective
coordinating function, and frequent turnover of other project
responsibles, supervision and follow up of previous mission
understandings were not always an easy task.
9.03   SAL II and ATAP appraisal missions correctly concluded thct
changes in grain marketing and land tenure aspects were fundamental to
increasing both output and efficiency in the agricultural sector. In
recommending liberalization the Bank probably underestimated the
political dimension of the changes. Initially also, the Bank
overestimated the leverage it could bring to bear under SAL II and ATAP
in this regard. The political underpinnings associated with timing of
the grain marketing and land tenure studies, implementation of
recommendations and cross-conditionality between ATAP and SAL II proved
to be issues which surfaced time and again throughout implementation
period of the project.
9.04 It was clear ever since negotiations, that the government did not
want to commit itself to changes that would be politically difficult to
implement. Although agreeing to the need of carrying out the grain
marketing study, the GOK requested during ATAP negotiations an
open-ended definition of the action program to follow the study. This
request was agreed to by the Bank during SAL II negotiations;
recommendations of the study would be utilized by GO to formulate
policies. The position on the land Issues was even stronger as GOK
requested during negotiations of ATAP the deletion of the two comlponents
of the land studies. During SAL II negotiations the government agreed
to a program to regularize the de fa_co subdivision; however, due to the
sensitivity of the issues resources allocated to the land program were
eliminated from the DCA, the program to regularize subdivision would be
financed and implemented with GOK's resources.
9.05   On balance, IDA was well aware of the risks associated with the
key studies, implementing policy reforms and the government commitment
to such reforms. In seeking to introduce changes in the area of
marketing and land tenure IDA was undertaking a massive task. Despite
the relatively difficult issues addressed by supervision missions the
flexible attitude of IDA in general was constructive and ser-ible. This
was appreciated by the Borrower and IDA succeeded in creatiit, awareness
that grain marketing and land policies had to be reshaped as a requisite
for sustained growth. Nevertheless, IDA gave the Borrower breathing
space to take the necessary measures in its own way and timetable
concentrating on the project's institutional building aspects and in
improving staff capabilities to addr'ess policy issues in the future.
X. SUMMARY OF LESSONS LEARNED
10.01 On balance the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project was
successfully implemented and the project objectives, to a large extent,
met. The project initiated important programs of institutional change
and strengthening, which are already providing direct benefits to
formulation of policy and implementation of services, programs and
projects. Institution building is a long-term process, however, and a
follow-up project, to building upon ATAP activities and expand technical
assistance to a wider range of sector institutions linked to MALD, was
approved by IDA in June 1986 (Cr. 1718-KE).



- 1S -
10.02 The project's project's achievements and shortfalls as discussed
in the previous sections highlight four major lessons which are relevant
to similar institution-building operations in Kenya and other Borrower
countries.
(a)   Comnlementarilv with Policy-based Lendinz OQerations: ATAP
illustrated the Importance of three features which
complement policy-based operations: linking TA and
institution-building activities to a policy-based
operation(i.e. SAL II); of having an instrument which could
promote IDA dialogue with Government on sensitive policy
issues beyond the limited implementation period of SAL II
and which could be used to respond flexibly to this
dialogue. The SAL II was the main vehicle for promoting
policy changes on several sensitive policy Issues (i.e.
grain marketing and land use), and the limited achievements
in these areas cannot be attributed to the ATAP. It played
an Important role in providing the technical assistance and
in supporting improved processes which strengthened
Government's institutional capacity to address these and
other issues during and after the implementation period of
the SAL II. The implementation period of SAL II was too
short to include TA and other measures to help Government
address difficult policy issues. ATAP was able to continue
IDA's dialogue with Government on sensitive issues, which
later contributed to follow-up operations (i.e. ASMP and
ASAO) and strengthened Government capacity to address
Issues in these areas. Also, ATAP was able to respond
flexibly to Government's response to these issues.
In the case of grain marketing rdform, the Bank's dialogue
continued beyond the final tranche of SAL II, including the
Interim period where GOK/Bank Group dialogue on grain
marketing reform ceased. The study findings provided the
basis for Government's subsequent policy and implementation
decisions to reform grain marketing, including a major
restructuring of the National Cereals and Produce Board
(NCPB). These reforms were supported by subsequent
operations(ie. ASMP and ASAO), and are currently underway.
In the case of the land policy issues, after Government
decided not to implement the land sub-division plan and
group farm sub-division project, IDA intensified its
efforts to strengthen KREMU, which is charged with
obtaining and analyzing data which will contribute to
improved land use. Hence, ATAP highlighted the importance
of using the right process at the right time in politically
sensitive institutional and policy areas.
(b)   Active Role of Government in Process Chanies:  One of the
major institutional-building benefits of the ATAP resulted
from the Budget Task Force established and maintained
during the project's implementation. The significant
features which contributed to its success was the active
involvement by the implementing Ministries (Agriculture and
Livestock, which were later merged) in the preparation,
management and follow-up actions of the Task Force
meetings. In this connection, Government's role was not



- 16 -
limited to carrying out studies; instead, Government took a
very active role in formulating discussion papers and In
the implementation of process changes which strengthened
the budget process and content of investment programs in
the agriculture sector. This active Government role also
made it possible to expand the budget reform process in
other sectors, based on the model and experience achieved
under the ATAP in the agriculture sector.
(c) Imolementation Arrangements and government Cqomitment: The
fact that implementation arrangements for ATAP did nut
proceed as intended did not prove to be an obstacle to
achieving the main objectives. The Project Steering
Committee was never really needed, given that each
component was self-contained and managed by a particular
Ministry/agency. The important factor and lesson relates
to the strong commitment of senior officials of the
participating Ministries/agencies to implementing their
particular components because ATAP was viewed as a useful
instrument to achieving their institutional objectives.
The fragmentation of activities among various agencies
placed a greater burden on IDA to ensure that the various
activities were undertaken according to a timetable and
project objectives, including arrangements for the
necessary budgetary provisions for the various components.
(d)   Intensity of Bank Group Supervision:  While ATAP had about
25 "supervision missions", the main lesson is that this
type of TA and institution-building activity is very
intensive of staff inputs. In addition to the large number
of Government participating institutions and lack of
effective Government coordination, IDA staff had to devote
considerable effort to reviewing in detail the various
components and assisting in the successful planning and
follow-up activities of the Budget Task forces. Also,
almost all of the "missions" were combined with other
related Bank Group activities in Kenya, including the
preparation of the ASMP and ASAO. Therefore, in terms of
time allocation, the intensity of supervision of ATAP is
probably consistent for similar types of operations. A
minor operational lesson for accurate time recording of
Bank Group inputs is that in the future, staff should place
greater care in disaggregating the time allocation to
various related activities.



- 17 -
Annex I
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
List and Description of Studies and Consultants
Title                                Authors                    Date Issued
1.  Grain Marketing                  Bookers and Githongo       October 1983
Associates
TASK FORCE PAPERS
Paper No. 1                          Ministry of Agric.         January 1982
Terms of Reference for Task Force    & Livestock Dev.
Paper No. 2                          Dr. W. B. Cutter
Review of Financial Management       World Bank                 January 1982
Issues for the Ministry of           Consultant
Agriculture
Paper No. 3                          Dr. Michael Chege
Budgeting & Financial                University of Nairobi      January 1982
Administration in the Ministry
of Agriculture: A case study of
I.A.D.P. (I) and S.C.I.P. at
Headquarters and In Kisii and
Kakamega districts
Paper No. 4
Budgetary Estimates preparation      Dr. Micheal Chege
at District and Provincial levels:   Dr. Joseph H. Kimura       April 1982
A case study of Ministry of Agricu-
ture and Livestock Development in
Meru District and Raster Province
Paper No. 5                          Dr David K. Leonard
MOA procedures for District          and                        April 1982
level Budgetary and Work             Walter 0. Oyugi
Planning Proposals on the
Management Manual
Paper No. 6                          T. C. Pinckney
Micro-processors & Financial         Dr. J. M. Cohen &
Management in Kenya's Ministries     Dr. David K. Leonard       April 1982
of Agriculture and Livestock
Development



- 18 -
Paper No. 7                           T. C. Pinckney
The Allocation of Fuads for           6. K. Githae &
1982/83 in Kenya's Ministries         Z. E. N. Achira           October 1982
of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
Paper No. 8                           G. M. G. Mutheki
Relationships between the forward    and                        October 1982
budget and printed estimates          Dr. S. Ramakrishnan
1982-83 for the MOA
Paper No. 9                           F. D. Vaa Buer
Increasing the Role of District       and                       October 1982
in the Planning and Budgetary        A. U. Wandera
Processes
Paper No. 10
Provincial Accounting System          J.W. Njoroge              April 1983
and Expenditure Control for
Implementing District Foeus
Paper No. 11                          Clay G. Wescott
District Focus and Financial          and                       April 1983
Management in the Ministries          Z. E. N. Achira
of Livestock Development and
Agriculture
Paper No. 12                          Dr. S. Ramakrisbnan
Procedures for Submission of          and                       April 1983
claims for Reimbursements in          Z. E. N. Achira
Donor Financed Projects
Paper No. 13                          G. K. Githae
Improving the Collection of           and                       April 1983
A.I.A.'s and Review of User           Dr. N. I. Isaksson
Charges                               G. M. G. Mutheki
Paper No. 14                          G. M. G. Mutheki
Report on Current Budgetary           G. K. Githae              April 1983
Processes in the Ministries of        and S. Ramakrisbnan
Agriculture and Livestock
Development
Paper No. 15                          J. arap Kirui
Report on Action Taken on             D. K. ole Nasiell
Previous Recommendations of           G. M. G. Mutheki
Task Force                            G. K. Githae
Dr. S. Ramakrisbnan       April 1983
Paper No. 16
An Evaluation of the present          Carl H. Gotsch            July 1983
contribution and future potential
of microcomputers in the Kenyan
Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development



- 19 -
Paper No. 17                          Dr. S. Ramakrishnan
Implementation of District            Dr. N. I. Isaaksson        August 1983
Focus for Rural DeveloPment
Paper No. 18                          G. K. Githee
Implementation of District            Z. E. N. Achira
Focus: Review and Suggestions         G. M. G. Mutheki
Review of Present Budgetary           Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        January 1984
Processes and Measures for
Improvement
Paper No. 19
Review of Present Budgetary           D. K. ole Nasieku
Processes and Measures for            N. Isaaksson
Improvement                           Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        January 1984
Paper No. 20
A proposed project management
system                                Lester E. Gordon           January 1984
Paper No. 21
Project management system
for Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock Development             Lester E. Gordon           January 1984
Paper No. 22                          D. K. ole Nasieku
Report on Action Taken on             G. K. Githae
Previous Recommendations of           G. M. G. Mutheki
Task Force                            Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        January 1984
Paper No. 23
Review of Action Taken on
Previous Recommendations of
Task Force                            Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        November 1984
Paper No. 24
Progress in implementing              K. Ruchiami
Project management system             Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        November 1984
Paper No. 25
Budgetary Returns for                 K. Ruchiami
Implementing District Focus           Dr. S. Ramakrishnan        November 1984
Paper No. 26                          Dr. N. I. Isaaksson
Personnel management issues           G. M. Muguchia             November 1984
Paper No. 27                          K. Ruchiami
Review of Action taken on             Z. E. N. Achira
previous recommendations of           K. Venkatesan              August 1985
Task Force
Paper No. 28                          K. Ruchiami
District Focus: Implementation        Z. E. N. Achira
in MALD                               R. T. Gichohi              August 1985



-20 -
Paper No. 29
Agriculture and Livestock             Dr. Malcolm Hall
Strategy for 1986/87 - 1988/89        Dr. K. W. Gitu             August 1985
Forward Budget
Paper No. 30
Parastatal Funding Through            Lester E. Gordon
Development Estimates                 M.M. Nzube                 August 1985
Paper No. 31
Review and Projection of
Budget Commitments and
Requirements 1985/86 - 1988/89        Dr. N. T. Isaaksaon        December 1985
Paper No. 32                          K. Ruchiami
Report on action taken on             Z. E. N. Achira
previous recommendations of the       P. T. Gichohi              November 1986
Task Force                            Z. J. Nwangi
Paper No. 33                          K. Ruchiami
Budget Rationalization through        Z. J. Mwangi               November 1986
the 1987-88-89                        K. W. Gitu
Paper No. 34                          Z. J. Mwangi
Budget Management System              K. Ruchiami
M. Mukolwe                 November 1986
J. M. Nwangi
Paper No. 35                          Dr. Kamau
Parastatal Issues in the              M. M. Nzube                November 1986
Agriculture and Livestock Sectors
Paper No. 36
Issues in Personnel Management        R. T. Gichohi              November 1986
and Complement Control



- 21 -
Annex 2
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
List of Resident Rae    Financed bD  ATAP
Position
1.    Systems Ecologist (KREKU)
2.    Resource Ecologist   n
3.    Pilot
4.    Pilot
5.   Micro-processor
Advi-h,r           (MALD)
6.   Budget Advisor      (MALD)
7.   Management Advisor (MALD)
8.   Management Advisor (MALD)



- 22 -
Annex 3
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Training
£n_r5ths - Trinina Sghedul
Course                   Location                  Duration   N. of Ca  idates
Cnmputer Training        Univ. of E. Anglia          6 wks            1
(microprocessors)        Univ. of Connecticut
Monitoring and
Evaluation               Univ. of E. Anglia          7 wks            2
Public Enterprise
W/shop                   Harvard University          6 wks            4
Fundamentals of
Management               Univ. of Connecticut        6 wks            1
Accounting & Financing
for Developing           Univ. of Strathclyde       12 wks            1
Countries
Personnel Management
Program                  Univ. of Connecticut        8 wks            1
Senior Management in    Mana. Agricultural
Agriculture              Management Centre,
Swaziland                  5 wks            2
Total                     50 wks           12



- 23-
()
KR.N,,Y,A
GRICU(LetURL TEtCIl .C.Ar. ASSISTANCK PROJECT
PROJEt COPIPKXTtON REPORT
Fund-sA Liocation and Uti. lization
Actual Disbursements
Al.located    Real-located                    As % of Apprainal
in DCA                        Am2/18/8)..    lXtuount  ostimate
(1)
1    Vehicle. Equipment, Material
Suppt C 100wF. 8,.%L                900             760           546.9                 61
2    Microprocessors for
Part F (100lF, 8Jl.)                 60             600           595.0                991
3.-A  Consultants, Parts
A,B,D,F (100%)                     1350            1005          1240.8                 92
3-8  Consultants Part K
(100%C, 651.)                      1.130          1I50           :888.6               161
3-C  Consultants Part H
(100%F, 80%L)                       270
4    Training, Conferences and
Study Tours (100%)                  700             600           557.9                 78
5    Refunding of PPF                     310              -
6    Civil Works Eixpenditure (80%L)       -             520           510.8                110
Unallocated                          680            165
5,400          5,400          5,400.0
Completion Date                  01/1/85        06/30/86
Closing Date                     12/1/85        11/30/86



25                      ATTACHMENT I
MINISTIY OF PIANNING AND NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Tdegam: Kauu. Nairobi                               DEPARTMENT OF RESOURCE SURVEYS
Tdeoone: Nairobi 5022231415                                AND REMOTE SENSING
It calling or t_pzaig a* for                                      P.O. Box 47146
... ...............................NAIROBI
When r.plying pkase quote                                23rd May,
Rt. No..                                                 2   ........................  ,9
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief Agriculture, Infrastructure &
Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
THE WORLD BANK,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
RE: KENYA - AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1277-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
This is to acknowledge with thanks your letter of 24th April, 1990
which forwarded the Project Completion Report for the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project Credit 1277-KE and in which this Department then known
as Kenya Rangelands Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) greatly benefited
from the Technical Assistance. In this connection, I wish to confirm that
I read with professional satisfaction your report on Institution Development
for KREMU as contained in Paragraph 5.09 to 5.12 and wish to reiterate that
this Department was extremely satisfied with the Technical Assistance under
the Credit which as you rightly indicate in your report provided the basis
for continuing support from the Bank under the on-going Agricultural Sector
Management Project - Credit 1718-KE. I hasten to add that the Institutional
Building support by both ATAP and ASMP has launched the Department into
a number of challenging areas particularly those related to the development
of both human resources and high technology components in the Department
to meet the growing demand for data as inputs to development planning in
the country and in particular as related to natural resources management.
I therefore, wish to once again thank you for the positive report and
re-confirm that as of now there are no major comments to make on the report
and it is my desire that as a consequent of the successes of the ATAP we
will equally meet the aspirations contained in the ASMP.
Yours sincerely,
DIRECTOR



S U  D A  N                   . 
/                                    N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
TURKANA            rLi                                                                         MANDERA                      _
'NP /    t    )\        MARSAr                                                 ( M
U G A N D A    5 ,.w J  .    /t     -ow   ~~E  A       T  E  R  N    <              WJ,R                    
At,' V t ~L  La  E   Y    fN   SALA
j>\   t5.  FjG( jX ~~~~~~~~",                                               "N8  <.
ISOMALIA
OKOr~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~' 
.  t     8ARlNt   S                                 E~~~~~~~~~ R N 
§ 9 /~~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                         RI   Mat                                  \ 91At'ISSI! \3 
j                        MERU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
.J.A
A4~~~~~~~~ ai 1
II..                                                              - NARC X    JITUI   |   TANA RIVER'
m*ea a,mS..                                                   KIU       /   C   0    A,         T    LA          OIAN
flANZ*P~~~~~~~~~~~~U  0*'~~~6CA
-          °     a\         
A'~
..  v^ 4Q > .                                                      N.
GNo~~~~~~~~( A               R Ie C. AT                                                                    R-  o ,   t 
S ~~~~~~~~~_                         ____    _____     _                  w S.    ,1,  ,,, 
ma= Q*                          OILS    tO        sO        Z    t,                 Ki.  04
3r



