Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONI.Y
Report No. P-3235-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
AGRICIJLTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                          Kenya Shilling
US$1.00                                KSh 10.0
KSh 1.00                               US$0.10
US$1.00                                SDR 0.85128
Weights and Measures
Decimal Metric                         British/US Equivalent
1 hectare (ha)                         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kin)                      0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.240 pounds
1 metric ton (mnt)                     2,204 pounds
Abbreviations
KFA                           Kenya Farmers Association
KRE.MU                        Kenya Rangeland Ecoloaical MoTlitoring Unit
MLD                           Ministry of Livestock and Development
MOA                           Ministry oE Agriculture
MSU                           Management Systems Unit
N1CP B                        National Cereals and Produce Board
PF & EO                       Principal Finance an-d Establishment Officer
TAP                           Technical Assistance Pool
Fiscal Year (Government)
July I - June 30
.
1/   Since Septeiaber 1981, the Kenya shilling has been pegged to the SDR
at a rate of SDR = KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has
fluctuated since that time.  A rate of US$1.00   KSh 10.0 has been used
in evaluating this project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                   Government of Kenya
AMOUNT:                     SDR 5.4 million (US$ 6.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:                      Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:        The principal objective of the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project would be to support the
Government's structural adjustment program in the
agricultural sector by providing technical assistance
to address key issues affecting performance.
Specifically, the Project would comprise the following
components:  (a) Grain Pricing and Marketing:
technical assistance for a study of grain marketing
and formulation of action programs to improve pricing
and marketing policies; (b) Land Policy: consultancy
services to prepare a project to develop subdivided
group farms; and support for data gathering activities
of the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit
(KREMU); (c) Management and Budget: technical
assistance to the MOA and MLD for improving
management, financial management and budgeting,
introducing microprocessors, supporting the activities
of the Technical Assistance Pool, and training.
BENEFITS:                   The major benefits expected to result from the
proposed project would be increased producer
incentives and efficiency resulting from initial
reforms in agricultural pricing and marketing, and an
enhancement of the Government's capability to address
long-term land issues and effectively implement
agricultural programs and projects.
RISKS:                      Major project risks include possible delays in
recruiting technical advisors and consultants under
the project, and the Government's commitment and
ability to introduce reforms in the sensitive areas of
maize pricing and marketing. Because adequate
performance on these measures is linked to the Second
Structural Adjustment Program, as well as to future
structural adjustment lending and project lending,
Government should have increased incentives to carry
out appropriate actions on these issues.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                           Local       Foreign    Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Project Components
Studies and Technical
Assistance
- Grain Pricing and
Marketing                                             165.0        665.0      830.0
- Land Policy                                            200.0        700.0      900.0
- Management and Budget                                  490.0        910.0   1,400.0
- Technical Assistance Pool                              680.0        850.0   1,530.0
Subtotal                                          1,535.0      3,125.0   4,660.0
Microprocessors for the Ministry of Agriculture               5.0         65.0       70.0
Expansion of KREMU's Processing Capacity                    190.0     1,240.0   1,430.0
Total Baseline Costs                          1,730.0      4,4307.    6,160.0
Physical Contingencies                                       50.0       210.0      260.0
Price Contingencies                                        180.0        400.0      580.0
Total Contingencies                              230.0       610.0      840.0
Total Project Costs                                  1,960.0 1/  5,040.0   7,000.0 2/
Financing Plan:                                         Local    Foreign   Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
IDA Credit                                           960.0   5,040.0  6,000.0
Covernment                                         1,000.0      --     1,000.0
Total                                           1,960.0   5,040.0  7,000.0
Estimated Disbursements:              IDA/FY:  1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
-----(US$ thousands equivalent) -----
Annual                                     125.0  2,175.0  2,200.0  1,000.0    500.0
Cumulative                                  --    2,300.0  4,500.0  5,500.0  6,000.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared.
Map: IBRD No. 12438R
1/ Includes US$50,000 in estimated taxes and duties.
2/ Includes a PPF advance of US$350,000.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATWIO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 5.4 million (US$6.0
million) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project to be implemented by the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock Development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981 has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. A Basic Economic Report for Kenya
will be distributed shortly. A summary of social and economic data is in
Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be
characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of
organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of Government participation and guidance. The country has
made a smooth transition to new leadership following President Kenyatta's
death in 1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation.  Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew
rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of
*          agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to
smallholders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while
investment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per
capita in 1980 was US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a third of
GDP and abouat two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products)
in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been largely



confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the principal source
of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work.
Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and underemployment.  It is
estimated that about one-fourth of the population have incomes which place
them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
partly the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general
living standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 575,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially productive.
However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can be
regarded as high potential land, with 9% of medium potential and 81% low
potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area
has good arable potential, and much of it is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very rapidly, it probably will be
unable to absorb all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising
urban unemployment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary
pressure has already been created by the growing demand for social services,
especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income
and alleviate poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land
and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments in
simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. The scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited, as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly
dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts, and
therefore it is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To
maintain growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased
use of domestic inputs and increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which has averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and
institutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious
impediments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing
policy and inadequacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the
concentration of land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in



-3 -
plannl.ing, and execution of agricultural projects and programs are iahibiting
agricultural growth.  Measures to deal with these problems are essential to
revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.        Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which !has had an adverse effect on the balance of
payments.  From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at ani average annual
rate of 4.6%, but over the past f'ive years, export volume has grown more
slowly. in 1980, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some extent,
this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but
it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward
export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1981
12.        Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially
vulnerable to swings in the country's international terms of trade.  The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramaatic increase in
petroleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.        During 1978-80, Kenya agairn experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The ef fects of these external shocks on balance-of-payments and
incomes were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize
productiorn.  As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and about 4.0% in
1980. GDP growth is estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.2%,
still not substantially greatler than population growth.  The trade deficit
rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted.
The balance on cturrent account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of
US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while
reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of
the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program
of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in imports and
reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in 1979. This,
together with increased external borroving, resulted in a recuperation of
about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in
the balance-of-pavments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum
prices, combined withi the need for additional food imPorts, resulted in a 25%
rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%, this was
not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of US$195
million in foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1981
indicate a moderate reduction in the deficit- to about US$750 million.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.        The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating
poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of
social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions. It is sharply focussed,



- 4 -
explicit in its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints
on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significiant changes
proposed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing
subdivision of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes
that a National Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging
land use intensification and labor absorption.  The Plan also proposes that
marketing and pricing policies pay c'loser attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made more
competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers.  Research and
extension services are to be more closely linked to the needs of small
farmers. Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale
commercial and smallholder production, a series of integrated rural
development projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect in
these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a
transition from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial
efficiency and export diversification. This will involve further
rationalization of tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on
imports over a five-year period. This policy will be very difficult to carry
forward over the next few years when, because of balance of payments
problems, there is likely to be considerable pressure to increase, rather
than reduce, protection. The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's
traditionally liberal policy on foreign investment with the important
exception that review and approval of projects for which special concessions
or Government participation are being sought will rely more on economic
criteria and will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole,
the Plan calls for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct
participation and intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure
industrial investment incentives to encourage employment and
decentralization. Finally, while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic
a role the informal sector can play in the development process, the Plan is
more specific in its recommendations for aid to small firms (provision of
financial and technical support and ending of unnecessary licensing and other
restrictions) than the previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African
countries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely
high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors, and even
greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in
fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and had already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while



- 5-
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document.  The Sessional Paper identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and
medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner.  It offers, among
other things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the
country's urgent financial problems resulting from  continuing budgetary and
balance-of-payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.        The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and
administrative adjustments. In order to do so, it has devised and is
executing a program of structural adjustment.
20.        The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves:  (a) revising of the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the country's
new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's creditworthiness by
improving external debt management and introducin,g better planning and
control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization
of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring
that exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest rate
policy to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives.  The
program has, on the whole, been carried out satisfactorily. However, actions
have been slower than anticipated in some areas and more rapid in others.
While the general thrust of the program has been maintained, attempts to
execute the policy measures have revealed some weaknesses in planning and
administration that need to be remedied.
21.        A second structural adjustment lendinlg operation has recently been
negotiated which, in addition to supporting continuation of the process of
rationalization of the system of industrial protection and improvement of
incentives for export, will include measures aimed at revitalizing the
agricultural sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy and encouraging
conservation and pollicy initiatives in population.
22.        While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on t:he balance-of-payments over the loniger term, the first years of
the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the
Kenyan economy.  The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in
which the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue to
deteriorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because of
ai-h. borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
three years.  At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely
to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and
demands for increased expenditures.  It is within this context that critical
pollicy decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of the
pattern of development. Kenya's easy options have been exhausted and the
Government must now come to grips with the country's basic structural
problems.



- 6 -
23.        Given the adverse external circuustances, it is unlikely that
positive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83.  However,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government's structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate, and current accont deficits should remain stable over the next
few years.  It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more
expansionary policies and a growth fate of GDP around 5% per year should be
attainable during the second half of the decade.  A feasible growth scenario
would then be one in which GDP increases at a pace equal to that of
population in the years 1982-83, then gradually accelerates, averaging about
4% per year during the first half of the decade and over 5% by the end of the
decade.
External Debt
24.        The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.7% in 1977 to about 12.2% in 1981.  This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase steadily from  about 15% in
1982 tc a peak of 21.5% in 1991.  Debt service payments to the Bank in 1981
accounted for 14.3% of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 1.2%.
The Bank's share of total debt service payments is expected to rise to about
22.8% by 1986, while IDA's share would rise to 1.3%. The Bank is currently
holding 19.4% of Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and
IDA 10-7%J  The Bank's share is expected to rise to 24% and IDA's to about
12.5% by 1986. The expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable largely to
anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch from other donors from loans to straight
grants (including conlversion of some loans to grants). Because of the
long-term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will
require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available
non-Bank Group external capital combined, and we therefore expect to continue
our practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs,
including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.        The developments affecting the East Africa Community EAC were
out 2ined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312, and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364,). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner States'
decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East African
Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions -- should
continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.  The three
Governments also commented on the Mediator's proposal for the three Partner
States and during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, decided to commence
negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. They started on December 14,
1981 in Arusha and continued in February in Kampala.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 39 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 36 IDA credits amounting to US$1,430.9 million, which
supported 67 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended
for the development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications,
and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states
of the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.
Recent economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector, and the Basic Economic Report, now
nearing completion, is expected to address comprehensively the issues of
income distribution, population growth and appropriate long-term agricultural
and industrial policies.
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing
and their design have been influenced by the need to complement policy
actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has
thus been given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has
been placed on sectors such as population and energy. Projects approved in
FY81 included a Fifth Education Project, a Railways Project, and a fourth
line of credit to the Agricultural Finance Corporation. So far in FY82, a
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, a Third Forestry Project, a Cotton
Processing and Marketing Project, an Integrated Rural Health and Family
Planning Project and a Second Telecommunications Project have been approved.
The Second Structural Adjustment Program is being processed in conjunction
with the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project. Operations that have
been appraised include an urban transport project and a fourth power
project. Projects under preparation include a grain storage and marketing
project, a fifth power project and an urban (small towns) project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the more
pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints, procurement
problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing.
These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting reimbursement
claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record. A comparison with
the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits in the East
Africa region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement rate was 38.6% as
against 20.7% for the region; while in 1980, Kenya's disbursemnent rate had
decreased to 8.5% as against 16.5% for the region. An in-depth review of the
causes of the poor project implementation performance and poor disbursements,
has been undertaKen by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions, were discussed with the Govern.ment in March 1982, at a country



- 8 -
implementation review meeting (CIR). The discussions were frank and
constructive, and the Government informed the Bank Group of several new
initiatives to improve performance. These included:
(a)   A task force had been established to monitor the administration of
agencies in seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group. The use of
Procedure III (direct payment to suppliers) would be extended to more
projects;
(b)   A Project Implementation Committee will be set up by June 1982,
comprising the three Permanent Secretaries of the coordinating
ministries (Office of the President, Finance and Planning) with a
permanent secretariat. A detailed reporting system will be
established. The Office of the President will be in overall charge
of this operation;
(c)   The Government is establishing priorities for rationalizing the
existing project commitments in order to live within present
financial and administrative limitations. The Government will
consider reducing the scope of some projects, eliminating some
altogether, and stretching out the implementation periods of others.
Some decisions on Bank Group projects were agreed during the CIR
between the Government and the Bank Group, including, for example,
the cancellation of a large portion (about $23 million) of the Sugar
Rehabilitation Projects It was further agreed to have another
meeting in September 1982 to review more proJects in the same
fashion.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$58.8 million for eight operations
in Kenya.  These include loans for five companies:  Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburl Portland Cement Company, Ltd. Also
included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a
US$5.0 million credit line to the Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and
US$1.3 million in equity to the Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of
March 31, 1982, IFC held for its own account US$43.3 million comprising
US$34.0 million of loans and US$9.3 million of equity.  A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General Background
31.       Despite Kenya's progress in i'ndustrialization, the agricultural
sector remains vitally important for the continued growth and development of
the domestic economy. Agriculture's share of GDP (34% in 1980) does not
indicate the extent to which Kenya is fuundamentally an agricultural country.
About 85% of Kenya's approximately 16 million people live and work in the



- 9 -
rural areas. The agricultural sector is also an important source of raw
materials for Kenya's agro-industries, especially in the areas of food
processing, coffee and tea processing and textiles.  Agricultural exports
constitute two-thirds of the country's exports (84% if exports of refined
petroleum are excluded). Although dependence on the two major exports, coffee
and tea, has declined somewhat in recent years, they still account for about
45% of foreign exchange earnings.
32.       The agricultural sector is composed of a traditional subsistence
sector, which includes both smallholder and pastoral producers, and a
commercial sector made up of large scale and smallholder farmers.
Smallholder agriculture is the dominant mode of production; smallholdings
account for about three-fourths of total agricultural output, two-thirds of
the land area devoted to arable agriculture (excluding pastoral and ranching
areas), and about 70% of total employment in the economy. Smallholders
produce both subsistence food crops and commercial cash crops. The large
farm sector includes plantations and estates producing cash crops, ranches,
and mixed farms. Large farms account for about 50% of total marketed
production, approximately 50% of marketed maize production and 100% of wheat
production.
33.       Kenya's rapid growth during the first eight years after
Independence was, in no small measure, due to the strong growth of the
agricultural sector, which expanded at the impressive rate of 4.7% per
annum. However, in recent years, lagging growth of the sector has been a
matter of serious concern. The excellent performance of agriculture in the
decade following Independence (1964-74) has been succeeded by a period of
fluctuating and sometimes negative growth rates, averaging 2.9% between 1974
and 1979. Growth of food production has been particularly slow, falling
slightly behind population growth, which is now approaching 4% per year.
In 1980, periods of drought in many areas of the country contributed to
production shortfalls and food shortages. In addition to weather, major
factors which have affected agricultural production and growth include:
(a) pricing and marketing policies and underdeveloped marketing services;
(b) institutional constraints and the need to improve agricultural services
and input supply; and (c) land issues. In the long run, Kenya's agricultural
development will also be affected by the rapidly increasing population and
shortages of high quality arable land. These current and long-term sectoral
constraints are addressed in the Government's structural adjustment program
for agricultural sector (paras. 41 to 44).
Pricing and Marketing
34.       Pricing and marketing issues are analyzed in detail in the "Annex
on Agricultural Issues" to the recent "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, which has been distributed to the
Executive Directors. This section summarizes the issues. There is a
significant level of Government intervention in the marketing and pricing of
agricultural commodities in Kenya. The Government sets producer prices for
maize, wheat, rice, milk, beef, sugarcane, cotton and pyrethrum; distribution
and processing margins, and consumer prices are also set for basic food
commodities (maize, milk, beef, wheat flour, sugar, coffee, tea and edible



- 10 -
oils, amonlg others) and a wide range of consumer goods. Major problems in
the setting and administration of price controls include: (i) setting
uniform geographic and seasonal prices throughoutW the diverse agricultural
regions; (ii) poorly defined criteria for setting price levels, leading to
inadequate or excessive incentives; (iii) inadequate consideration of
competitici among crops, and the influeace of prices on production decisions;
(iv) delays in announcement of official prices; and (v) inadequate margins
for distribution, leading to parastatal losses.
35.       In addition to regulating prices, the Government also intervenes in
agricultural marketing, mainly through statutory marketing boards which exist
for all major commodities and whlch have a range of regulatory and marketing
functions. Those marketing boards which are largely oriented towards cash
crops market their respective commodities, provide quality control, and
oversee crop development. Other marketing boards, primarily those involved
in the collection and distribution of key domestic food commodities (maize,
wheat, milk, meat), play a more active role in price regulation and market
control. Of these the most important is the National Cereals and Produce
Board (NCPB) which has the Government monopoly for the collection and
distribution of maize and wheat. Producer cooperatives are the major
channels for the processing and marketing of certain smallholder cash crops,
especially coffee, pyrethrum, and milk, as well as for the distribution of
inputs and credit. The Government has limited the private sector's role in
marketing of certain basic commodities. In the case of maize, rigid
Government controls on interdistrict shipments have prevented the unofLicial
maize market, which serves mainly rural areas, from balancing supply and
demand among markets and between seasons. Other issues and constraints in
agricultural, marketing include: (i) Government marketing controls leading to
producer disincentives and constraints on market development; (ii) poor
market transparency and underdevelopment of marketing channels; (iii) low
private sector investment in infrastructure and storage; and (iv) limited
market services in some areas.
Land Issues
36^       The relative scarcity of arable land in Kenya combined with the
rapid increase in population, raises fundamental issues of land policy. Land
issues are of two broad types: those relating to the physical use of land,
and those relating to land tenure.  Regarding land use, there is broad
agreement that Government intervention should aim more systematically to
protect land resources, notably by preserving forest areas, enforcing soil
conservation measures, and preventing long-term destruction of land through
such practices as overgrazing, and overcutting of forests which protect
watersheds. Land tenure issues concern the process of subdivision and land
adiudication throughout Kenya, and the broad problem of the future direction
of Kenya's land tenure system. Most high potential land is now densely
settled and inequality of land distribution is a significant problem.
Subdivision is increasing within smallholder areas and migration of the
potentially landless to semi-arid lands, ill-suited to farming, is also
increasing. Increased access to land and land-based employment is also
necessary, as the industrial and service sectors will not be able to absorb
the rapidly growing number of new labor force entrants in coming years.



- 11 -
Responsibility for the development and implementation of comprehensive
policies to address these critical issues is dispersed among a number of
Government ministries; institutional coordination is poor.
Institutional Issues
37.        In Kenya, responsibilities for agricultural policy making, the
administration of agricultural programs and projects, and the provision of
services to the agricultural sector are shared among numerous institutions.
These include Government ministries, parastatals, cooperatives, and other
private and semi-private organizations. In recent years there has been a
tendency for Government to extend its intervention.  A grow'ng appreciation
of the resulting costs and the limited administrative capacity of the
Government has begun to temper this trend, especially in light of current
economic problems and budgetary constraints. However the issue of the types
and extent of Government Involvement and regulation of the agricultural
sector has yet to be fully examined and resolved.
38.       The central ministries involved in the agricultural sector are the
Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Livestock Development (MLD). Both are
cabinet ministries created in 1979 from the former Ministry of Agriculture;
since the split, both have acted to consolidate their internal organization
and staffing. MOA carries out a wide range of projects to develop both
commercial and subsistence production. Often these projects are carried out
in coordination with other ministries and parastatals, particularly where
there are specific crop development authorities (for example, coffee, tea,
and sugar). The Ministry of Livestock Development is responsible for the
implementation of livestock projects, range management and the provision of
veterinary services. Its most important division is the Department of
Livestock Development, which directs activities related to research, manpower
development and training, veterinary services, range management, and
livestock production. MLD is in the process of organizing its management and
development planning divisions, and still retains close ties with MOA in many
areas.
39.       Institutional weaknesses and constraints have been an important
factor in the recent poor performance of agriculture. The proliferation of
institutions and parastatals operating in the agricultural sector has made
the coordination of policy making and program implementation difficult. The
ability cF Government ministries to effectively coordinate and implement
integrated projects in thle sector has been inadequate, resulting in project
e          delays.  In some instances, institutions have been unable to deliver
services.  The cooperatives in particular have experienced problems in
distributing inputs and credit which can be traced to poor administration,
limited financial controls and other management weaknesses.  A deteriorating
record of project implementation and the inability to spend budgeted funds in
recent years have underlined constraints in MOA's and MLD's ability to
implement development projects and programs.  A review of budgeting and
financial management in the 1OA identified such problems as lack of a
policy-oriented budgeting exercise and poor financial management and accounts
control.  Other key institutional problems include: (i) the limited ability
to monitor and evaluate project performance; (ii) the lack of information



- 12 -
feedback for management decisions; (iii) shortage of qualified personnel at
many levels, including the areas of administration and management, policy
analysis and evaluation, and field services; (iv) inadeq-uate policies in the
area of vehicle control and personnel, and (v) poor supervision of
parastatal s.
Technical Assistance
40.        The major source of technical assistance in the agricultural sector
is the multi-donor funded Technical Assistance Pool (TAP), which provides
twe ve resident advisors to the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock
Devel-opment9 and Econom ic Planninig and Development  The TAP was organized in
1976 and is now in its second phase  T198l-8).  The TAP provides advisory
services in the areas of agricultural strategy and planning, commodity
analysis and pricing, management, and project preparation.  Total financing
is US$8.9 million for the second phase; donors include urLiDP, the Canadian
international Development Agency (CIDA), the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), a-nd USAID, with local corLtributions from the
Government of Kenya.  In additio-a to the TAP, UNDP and FAO provide technical
assistance in the area of agricultural pricing and marketing through the
UIDP/FAO Marketing Development Project., now near the conclusion of its second
phase.  Bilateral technical ass:istance is provided by the Germans, who are
funding an agricultural team in the Department of Agriculture, examining crop
prodiuction and related issues.  A major problem in the past hias been the
Proliferation of technical assistance in the MCGA and MLD, which has led to
poor coordination and supervision; the TAP addresses this issue by
coordinating most advisory services through one admniniGtrating ageacy (the
Harvard Institute for International Developumlent; para. 56).
The Second Structural Adjustment Program
41.        Recognizing the importance of the agricultural sector to sustained
growth, the Government is addressing key constraints in a second structural
adjustment program which is being processed in conjunction with the
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (para. 283) In the agricultural
sector the program both addresses the important short-term problems of
pricing and marketing, land issues, and institutional issues, and builds on
the long term development objectives outlined in the Fourth Developmenit Plan
(paras. 14 and 15). Short-term recovery of the sector is promoted through
adjustment of pricing and marketing policies, regularization of subdivision,
and removal of budget and management bottlenecks irn the key operational
ministries.  The program also initiates actions to deal with longer term
issues of land policy, marketing development, and increasing the absorptive
capacity of MOA and MLD The Agricultural Technical Assistance Project will
support Government initiatives in these areas.
42.        Pricing and Marketing.  The Government has decided that because
maize is the staple food in the Kenyan diet, especially that of lower income
groups and because it is grown throughout Kenya by both smallholders and
large farmers, the program will give special attention to ensuring the
adequate growth of domestic maize production. This will be accomplish.ed by



- 13 -
providing adequate incentives to producers, efficient crop marketing,
transportation, storage and distribution, and consumer prices which reflect
economic costs of production and distribution. Government has already taken
important steps toward the rationalization of pricing policy, and has relaxed
the extraordinary restrictions placed on maize marketing over the last few
years. Its next step will be to undertake a study to determine the
appropriate market structure to accomplish its objectives described above.
The study will consider the full range of options from the present de jure
Government monopoly to systems which involve minimal intervention. IL will
be completed by January 1983, and will be financed by this project (para.
47). After consideration of the study's conclusions and recommendations,
Government will formulate an action program to implement its decisions in
this area, including measures designed to strengthen and/or restructure
existing institutions and specific steps required to implement its policies.
43.       Land Policy.  As a first step in the systematic, technical
consideration of land issues, and in order to ensure that these issues
receive attention at the highest levels of Government, they will be given
special attention in the preparation of the next development plan, which is
about to begin. Task forces will be established to prepare a series of
technical reviews and recommendations for consideration by Government. As a
first step towards legalizing the existing subdivision of group-owned farms,
the Government will undertake a thorough review to determine the technical
and financial constraints on legalization, and draw up an action program to
accelerate the regularization and rationalization of individual holdings.
44.       Management of Agricultural Programs and Policies.  A central
objective of the Government's structural adjustment program is the
improvement of the management of agricultural programs and policies, and the
financial administration of the agricultural ministries. As a first step
towards improving the budget process, the key operational ministries in the
agricultural sector have established a Task Force on Budget and Financial
Management, which represents the start of a long term effort to understand
and to improve the processes of resource allocation in the agricultural
sector. The objectives of the Task Force are to (a) follow the budget
process in MOA and MLD for one full fiscal cycle; (b) identify problems in
financial and budget processes and procedures, and propose recommendations
for improvement; and (c) carry out studies and longer term assessments of
financial management and accounts control issues in the budget process. MOA
and MLD have also established Management Systems staff, with technical
assistance from the TAP, which will seek to address important management
issues and constraints.
IV. The Project
A. Background and General Description
45.       A project to support the structural adjustment program for the
agricultural sector originated with the design of this program as part of
preparation of the Second Structural Adjustment Program in the spring of



- 14 -
1981, and was discussed with Government in the course of the structural
adjustment appraisal mission in July 1981. Because of the fast-disbursing
nature of structural adjustment lending, a three-year project was planned to
support long-term studies and technical assistance elements of the program.
A pre-appraisal mission visited Kenya in October 1981, and the project was
appraised in January/February 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington, DC, on April 15-16, 1982 and concluded on May 5 to 6, 1982 1/.
The Kenyan delegation was headed by Mr. L. 0. Kibinge, Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development; Mr. H. Mule, Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Finance led the concluding meetings. A Credit and Project summary appear
at the beginning of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is
given in Annex III.  No staff appraisal report was prepared for the project.
Project Objectives
46.       The main objective of the ProJect would be to assist the Government
in implementing the second Structural Adjustment Program in the agricultural
sector, through supporting Government measures to improve producer
incentives, rationalize pricing and marketing policies, develop sound
long-term agricultural policies for land use, and strengthen institutional
capabilities. Specifically, the project would provide technical assistance
to the MOA and MLD over a period of three years for: (i) review of grain
(maize and wheat) marketing; (ii) preparation of action plans to implement
Government policies on grain marketing, promote market development and
improve national food security; (iii) improvement of the quality of grain
statistics; (iv) review of existing subdivision and formulation of a plan to
accelerate its regularization; (v) improvement of land use data through
suaport of the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU); (vi)
improvement of management and budgeting in MOA and MLD; and (vii) improvement
of agricultural planning, commodity analysis and project preparation through
the Technical Assistance Pool. The project would include approximately 215
man-months of short-term consultancy services and 6 man-years of advisory
services,  The project would also help support part of (10%) approximately 47
maa-years of advisory services under the Techaical Assistance Pool. (See
Annex !Vr'.
B. Detailed Features
Grain Marketing and Pricing
47.       This project component would assist Goverrment in formulating and
implementing actions to rationalize grain marketing and pricing through
technical assistance to review the present grain marketing system and
recommend optimal policies to improve market services and achieve Government
objectives in this area. The study would assemble and analyze information on
grain production, consumption and marketing flows; review the present
1/ Due to the linkage of the project with the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit, several outstanding issues could not be resolved until after
negotiations for Structural Adjustment, which concluded on May 6, 1982.



- 15 -
organization of grain marketing; assess the financial and managerial capacity
and the efficiency of major marketing institutions and participants; and make
recommendations on optimal policies for grain marketing and pricing, in
particular on the division of functions between Government, cooperatives and
the private sector. The study will also include recommendations on (a) an
appropriate food security plan; (b) a program of market development,
including information, services and infrastructure; and (c) a program to
improve grain statistics and information systems. The study will proceed
under the guidance of a high level steering group consisting of
representatives of the Office of the President, relevant ministries, and
NCPB. Approximately 65 man-months of consultancy services are provided. An
interdisciplinary study team is envisaged, including agricultural economists
(one with experience in food security planning), a grain marketing expert,
management specialist, financial systems/accounting specialist, and
statistician.
48.       After reviewing the recommendations of the grain marketing study,
Government will decide on the appropriate market structure to achieve its
objectives, and will design an action program to implement its decisions.
This program will include measures designed to strengthen and/or restructure
existing institutions to equip them for future roles, and specific steps to
be taken to implement these decisions. The Government will also formulate a
market development program and a food security plan. The project provides
for six man-months of technical assistance to aid Government in designing
these programs. An additional 12 man-months of technical assistance is
included to begin improving the collection and quality of statistics on grain
production, consumption, prices and marketing.
49.       Release of the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit would be dependent on satisfactory progress in carrying out this
study and reaching decisions on the future structure of grain marketing.
Preliminary terms of reference for the study were discussed and agreed at
Structural Adjustment negotiations. Final terms of reference will be drawn
up after consultation with the study steering group (para. 47). Choice of
consultants will be discussed with IDA. There will be an interim report
midway through the study which will be discussed with IDA and full
consultations during the final review of the study. It is envisioned that
the execution of the study and the subsequent decision-making process will
take approximately nine months, or until March 1983. The study itself will
be completed by January 1983 (Section 3.05 (i) of the draft Credit
Agreement). Terms of reference for technical assistance to improve
statistics and to formulate action programs (para. 48) would be agreed with
IDA (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Land Policy
50.       Group Farm Subdivision,  Under the Structural Adjustment Program,
the Government has agreed to recognize the existing de facto subdivision of
group-owned farms. Before subdivision can be completed, however, there is a
need to review the current situation, assess constraints, and draw up an
action plan for regularizing and adjudicating individual holdings. Review of
the status quo of subdivided areas and design of a program to accelerate the
issue of individual titles will be monitored closely as part of the
Structural Adjustment Program. The Government proposes to design and carry
out this program through preparation of a subdivision project.



- 16 
51.        A two-phase project preparation exercse is planned.  The first
phase will comprise a review of the situation and an examination of issues
and constraints, including a survev of the extent of subdivision and
identification of farms wishing to subdivide; assessment of the types and
legal basis of land tenure on these farms; assessment of productive capacity
and iafrastructure needs; recommendations for resolution of the problems of
collectively-owed debt and collectively-owr,ed assets and production
operations; and recommendations for regularization of land holdings and
construction of infrastructure,   In the secon            , based on the
subdivision review, a program to ease these constraints and accelerate the
subdiilsion process will be prepared.   This program will focus on removing
constraints to land adjudication and accelerating the issuance of title
deeds, rationalizing and regularizing individual holdings, resolving
financial problems , building infrastructure, and organizing agricultural
services. Approximately 40 man-months of consulting time has been budgeted
under the project for this exercise.  Consultants would work closely with the
Development Planning Division and Department of Agricuiture of MOA, who would
be primarily responsible for project preparation,as well as with other
institutions dealing with land adjudication and land problems.  Terms of
reference for the review of subdivision will be discussed with IDA and agreed
on by September 1982. Government and IDA will discuss the subdivision
review, which will be completed no later than December 1982. Project
preparation will be completed by March 1983 (Sectlon 3.05 (ii) and (iii) of
the draft Credit Agreement).  The ProJeCt5 whicL would assist the subdivision
process over five years, is expected to be appraised Yin 1983.
52.        KREMU.  The Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU)
was established in 1976 as a livestock census and ecological monitoring unit,
whose functions include collectLag baseline data on livestock and ecosystems
in Kenya's rangelands.  Since its inceptlon, KREMX  has expanded its expertise
into the area of remote sensing techniaues, in addition to its ground and
aerial survey capacity, which equips the anit with the ability to monitor and
collect data on a wide range of natural resources, including land and
forestry resources.  In order to increase KREMU's ability to provide
information and data for land use planning and policy formulation, the
project would support KREMU's activities in these areas. The major
constraint to KREMU operations at present is the lack of equipment for
processing data, resulting in a very long turn-around time for data output,
which has diminished the usefulness of KREYi's activities and its ability to
serve other organizations and Projects. Lack of processing equipment has
also meant that the existing technIcal assistance presently funded under the
Livestock II Project (Cr. 477-KE) is underutilized.  Under the project,
processing capacity would be upgraded thirough tile purchass of a computer and
additional processing equipment. This wotLld enable KREMU to increase its
data output and provide background information for a wide range of Government
ministries and other organizations, on land use and resources issues.
Further training of KREMU staff is also provided for, particularly in
processing techniques. At present there is some uncertainty on future
arrangements for essential technical assistance for KREMU, as funding for
current advisors will end when the Livestock II project closes on December
31, 1982.  Discussionis are underwaY with bilateral sources to obtain the



- 17 -
necessary funding. Because of the importance of technical assistance to
successful expansion of processing capacity, the Government would confirm
that appropriate arrangements have been made to ensure the availability of
such technical assistance as a condition of disbursement of funds (Schedule
1, Section 4 (ii) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Management and Budget
53.       To assist in removing management and budgeting constraints in MOA
and MLD, the project would (a) support the activities of the interministerial
Task Force on Budget and Financial Managenent (para. 44) and a budget and
finance management advisor; (b) provide technical assistance in the areas of
management, project preparation, strategy, and commodity and price analysis
through the TAP; (c) fund studies aimed at identifying major management and
organization problems in the two ministries with a view to recommending
improvement; (d) introduce microprocessors in selected work units; and (e)
arrange for the training of personnel both locally and overseas.
54.       Budget and Financial Management.  The project will address issues
of financial management and budgeting through support for the Task Force on
Budget and Financial Management and the provision of technical assistance,
including an advisor on budget and finance, and consultancy services. The
Task Force, headed by the Permanent Secretary of Agriculture, is composed of
senior officials of the major operational ministries in the agricultural
sector, including MOA and MLD, the Ministry of Cooperative Development, as
well as representives from the Ministries of Finance and Planning, the Office
of the President. Over the next two years, the Task Force will consider both
long term and short term issues of resource allocation, seeking to arrive
both at immediate solutions and imnprovements, and also a better uniderstanding
of Kenya's system of financial management.  The Task Force will follow the
budget throughout the planning, budgeting and expenditure periods, meeting
periodically at key points in the budget cycle, and focussing on specific
issues. Logistical support for the Task Force and short-term consultancy
funds to prepare background papers are provided under the project. Task
Force activities would be coordinated by a Budget and Finance Advisor serving
MOA and MLD who would be located in the Management Systems staff unit of MOA,
under the administration of the existing TAP. Terms of reference would
include working with senior financial officers of MOA and MLD to identify and
help resolve problems of financial management, accounts control, and
budgeting, as well as coordinating the activities of the Task Force on Budget
and Financial Management. Terms of reference have been agreed for this
advisor; contracts, terms of service and the short list of candidates would
be approved by IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). Short term
consultancy services (approximately 12 man-months) would be provided for the
specific analysis of budget and financial management issues. The Budget and
Finance Advisor would also be responsible for organizing local training
courses for financial officers and for working with senior Ministry officials
and consultants to develop these courses (para. 58).



- 18 -
55.        Management.   The project would support improvements in the general
management of MOA and MLD activities and operations. The project includes
support for analysis of key institutional problems and formulation of
measures for improvement, through both technical assistance and training.
MOA and MLD have recently introduced small units (Management Systems staff)
headed by a management specialist provided under the Technical Assistance
Pool and reporting directly to the Perinanent Secretary of each ministry.
These units have been organized to address management issues and implement
measures for improvement.  Project activities in this area would be
tndertaken by these units and would include: (a) analysis of personnel
policies and practices; (b) technical and management information systems; (c)
management and organization of field offices and services; (d) MOA and MLD
systems and capability for supervising parastatals; (e) project monitoring
and evaluation; and (f) administrative and management training needs.
Approximately 10 man-months of additional consulting services have also been
provided. Government would discuss the analysis undertaken by the Management
Systems staff in these areas with IDA (Section 3.02 (i) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
56.        Technical Assistance Pool.  The project would support the
activities of the Technical Assistance Pool (TAP), (para. 40) providing part
of approximately 47 man-years of technical assistance to the Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock Development, and Planning. Continuation of TAP
activities, especially in the areas of management, agricultural strategy, and
commodity and price review analysis, is important both for the successful
implementation of the Structural Adjustmenlt Program in agriculture, and for
the strengthening of the ability of the ministries to carry out their
programs. The project would provide support for technical assistance,
training and institution building through the TAP. Qualifications of
advisory staff, terms of reference, terms and conditions of service, and the
contractual relationship with the executing agency for the TAP (the Harvard
Institute for International Development) will be approved by IDA and the
Government will make all TAP reports and all financial statements and
accounts available to IDA. (Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). As
a condition of disbursement, the Government should have entered into a
satisfactory contract with the executing agency (HIID) (Schedule 1, Section 4
(iii) of the draft Credit Agreement).
57.        Microprocessors.  In 1981,  MOA embarked upon a trial program to
introduce microprocessors to improve management information feedback,
particularly in the area of financial management and budgeting, and to use
for project preparation. Under the project, funds would be provided for the
continuation of this program, with the purchase of up to six microprocessors,
for a computer trainer/agricultural economist, and for training of local
staff.  Initially, the Ministry would purchase three microprocessors:  one
for the Principal Finance and Establishment Officers (PF & EO's) in MOA and
MLD, to assist them with budget and financial management data; one for the
project preparation section, to assist in project and commodity analysis; and
one for training, back-up, and testing of other uses. Training would be
provided by a junior agricultural economist with appropriate background in
microprocessors.  In addition to training officers of the ministries, he
would also be responsible for training support staff in processing data.  At



- 19 -
the conclusion of the first year, the program would be evaluated by MOA and
IDA, paying particular attention to levels of use, adaptability of
microprocessors to Ministry data management needs, training, relation to
overall information systems in the Ministry and future needs. Based upon
this evaluation, the program would be expanded with the purchase of
additional microprocessors (one or two per year) and further staff training.
Another evaluation would be prepared at the end of the second year.
Completion of these evaluations and agreement with IDA on the expansion of
the program would be conditions of disbursement for the microprocessor
program after the first project year. (Section 3.07 and Schedule 1, Section
4 (iv) of the draft Credit Agreement).  Computer models, processing capacity
*           and software needs would be assessed by a computer expert, taking into
account existing capacities in the country and support services. A total of
five man-months of consulting time have been budgeted for this expert,
including approximately one man-month of consulting time per year to oversee
the program, assist in evaluations and provide back-up services, such as
introduction of new software.
58.       Training.  To assist in improving MOA's and MLD's financial and
program management the project would support a range of training activities,
both in Kenya and overseas. These activities would be organized and
coordinated by the Management Systems staff, including both the advisors on
management and the advisor on budget and finance, with the assistance of
local and foreign consultants and local training institutions. In the area
of financial management, training courses would be organized and conducted
annually for the senior financial officials in MOA and MLD, focussing on
improving financial management skills and understanding financial processes,
and for accountants at both headquarters and field levels to improve
accounting skills. In the area of management, courses to improve management
skills would be conducted for personnel of both the administrative sections
and the technical sections, as well as for senior field staff. Provision
would also be made for short term overseas visits for senior officials and
some long-term training in management skills. Approximately 15 man-months of
consultant services have been provided; it is expected that these will
largely be local consultants and trainers who would work with the Ministries
to design and conduct the courses.
C. Project Implementation and Organization
59.       MOA and MLD would be primarily responsible for project
implementation; specific project activities, which are diverse, will be
undertaken by a number of units within the Ministries. A Project Steering
Committee would be established which would meet periodically to discuss
project activities, to address special problems, to provide overall guidance
and to evaluate progress in project implementation (Section 3.06 (a) of the
draft Credit Agreement). The Steering Committee would be chaired jointly by
the Permanent Secretaries of MOA and MLD, and would include representatives
of the various departments of MOA and MLD, including the Directors of
Agriculture and Livestock Development, the heads of the Development Planning
Divisions, the PF & EO's and other senior staff as appropriate. Day to day



- 20 -
coordination and administration of project activities would be handled by a
Project Coordinator, whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience
would be acceptable to the Association. Appointment of the Project
Coordinator would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Credit Agreement). Responsibility for carrying out project components
related to management and budget would largely rest with the Management
Systems staff, while the Development Planning Division, working with the
Department of Agriculture, would supervise and direct subdivision review and
project preparation. The grain marketing study would be supervised by an
inter-ministerial steering committee. KREMU would be responsible for
carrying out its own project component. MOA and MLD would appoint
counterpart staff for the Budget and Finance Advisor, for the Management
Systems staff, and for the microprocessor trainer/advisor (Section 3.02 (f)
of the draft Credit Agreement).
D. Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$7.0 million
equivalent net of taxes and duties, of which US$5.1 million are foreign
exchange costs (72% of total). Project costs are calculated on the basis of
February 1982 prices and include an estimated US$50,000 of local taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies of 10% on all costs are included, except for
advisory services provided under the TAP, as these would be mainly funded in
the first year of the project (excluding the one budget and finance advisor
who would be funded for all three years). Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis, at 13% for local costs in 1982; 9% in 1983,
and 8% in 1984 to 1986; and for foreign exchange costs 8.5 % for 1982, and
7.5 % annually for 1983 to 1986.  The average staff-month cost of consultancy
services has been estimated at about US$10,000 equivalent, including salary,
overhead, subsistence and travel. The average staff-month for local
consultants has been estimated at US$5,000, excluding travel and subsistence,
in line with costs prevailing in Kenya. Equipment, supplies and other minor
items to be acquired under the project have been estimated at about US$1.1
million; training costs have been estimated at about US$ 0.8 million. A
project cost table is presented in the credit and project summary at the
beginning of this report.
Financing Plan
61.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.4 million (US$6.0 million
equivalent) would finance all foreign exchange costs and US$ 0.9 million
equivalent in local costs, representing about 85% percent of total project
costs. The Government would contribute the remaining US$ 1.0 million in
local costs, or about 15% percent of total project costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Employment of technical advisors and consultants required under the
project would be in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Terms of
reference, qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment and



- 21 -
contracts for technical specialists would be subject to IDA's prior approval,
except in the case of small ad hoc studies carried out by local consultants
to assist the Management Systems staff and the Task Force on Budget and
Financial Management (less than $5,000 each and up to US$100,000 in
aggregate). The terms of reference for each study approved by IDA would
specify that interim reports prepared by consultants and drafts of the final
reports would be submitted to IDA for review and comment.  A tentative list
of expert services required is provided in Annex IV to this Report.
Consulting services are expected to be provided by both local and foreign
consulting firms, working together in consortia or independently and liaising
closely with the appropriate Government ministries and bodies. Contracts for
procurement of computer equipment for KREMU, totalling about US$500,000,
would be awarded through international competitive bidding, in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Contracts for goods valued between US$100,000 and
US$250,000, which would total about US$300,000 equivalent, would be awarded
after local competitive bidding in accordance with standard Government
procedures, which have been examined by the Association and are
satisfactory. No contracts are expected over $250,000. Orders of up to
US$100,000 equivalent for other goods (including the microprocessors for MOA
and vehicles for KREMU) would be procured by negotiated purchase, normally on
the basis of at least three suppliers' quotations, up to an aggregate limit
of US$500,000 equivalent. The project includes retroactive financing of up
to US$100,000 equivalent for expenditures incurred after April 15, 1982, to
cover costs of purchasing microprocessors and starting the review of
subdivision.
63.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over three and
one-half years against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for computers for KREMU and other equipment, materials,
supplies and vehicles; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for consultants' and experts services, except for the Technical
Assistance Pool, which will be 100% of foreign expenditures and 65% of total
expenditures; (c) 100% of total expenditures for training, conferences and
study tours; (d) refunding of the project preparation advance (US$350,000)
and (e) US$750,000 unallocated. All disbursements would be fully documented,
except local expenditures for conferences and training under (c), which would
be made against statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation would be
retained by MOA and made available for inspection by IDA supervision
missions.
Project Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
64.       Appropriate accounts would be maintained by the Government for all
project activities, and together with statements of expenditure would be
audited each year by auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 of the draft
Credit Agreement).  A certified copy of all project account and financial
statements as well as the auditors report would be submitted to the
Association within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The Borrower
would also prepare and submit to the Association a final report on the
execution of the project no later than six months after the completion of the
project (Section 3.04 (d) of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
E. Project Justification and Risks
65.        The proposed project is designed to support the Government's second
Structural Adjustment Program in the agricultural sector, which addresses
critical policy, institutional and managerial constraints affecting sectoral
performance and development. The technical assistance provided under the
project would enable the Government to (a) rationalize grain marketing and
pricing, providing a basis for further reforms in the area of agricultural.
pricing and marketing; (b) regularize de facto subdivision of large
group-owned farms; (c) collect and process data for land use planning; and
(d) improve the management and financial administration of key operational
ministries in the agricultural sector. While the benefits of the technical
assistance are not directly quantifiable, the expected improvements in
agricultural pricing and marketing policies, land policies and sector
management will strengthen overall sector performance. Reforms of marketing
and pricing policies will increase producer incentives and contribute to more
efficient marketing of staple grains, while a national food security plan
will assist the Government in coping more effectiively with short-term food
shortfalls. Legalization and acceleration of farm subdivision will
contribute to production increases in subdivided areas. Finally, improvement
in MOMAs and MLD's management, budgeting and financial administration will
strengthen the capacity of the Government to implement its development plans
and projects, and increase the absorptive capacity of the sector.
66.        The potential risks to successful project implementation involve
delays in initiating key studies and drafting action programs, and
difficulties in implementing reforms.  Past experience indicates that there
is some risk that administrative procedures may delay recruitment of
consultants and technical advisors. A clear timetable for carrying out these
studies has been established under the project (para. 49 and 51), which will
assist in overcomiing these delays. A second and more important risk is the
degree of Government commitment to implementing proposed reforms in sensitive
areas such as maize marketing and pricing. While proposed reforms are in
line with official Government statements of agricultural policy,
implementation of reforms has been slow.  The problem is compounded by the
need to organize competing interests to accept and support reforms. These
major issues form part of the Structural Adiustment Program which the
Government has proposed and agreed with the Bank Group, and which will be
closely monitored.  Future structural adjustment lending operations will
depend on the successful implementation of the current program.  Moreover,
information gathered in the course of studies under this project, notably on
grain marketing management issues, will assist policy makers in developing a
clearer understanding of costs and benefits, and in gaining support for
reforms.  Government's commitment to improving management and financial
administration has been underlined by the establishment of the Task Force.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 23 -
68.       Appointment of a Project Coordinator is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Credit Agreement). Conditions of
disbursement include: (a) appropriate arrangements for filling key technical
assistance positions within KREMU; (b) approval of contractual arrangements
between the Government and the Harvard Institute for International
Development for the administration of the Technical Assistance Pool; and (c)
approval of expansion of the microprocessor program in project years two and
three (Schedule 1, Sections 4 (i) - (iv) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Special features of the draft Development Credit Agrement are referred to in
Annex III of this report.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
June 14, 1982



MANEX I
- 24  -                                             Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SrE?
KENYA                          RerERENCE GROUPS (nIYRTIED AVEMGES
LAND AREA (THUUSAND SU. KM.)                                                          - HOST RECENT ESSITE)
TUTAL             582.6                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME              KIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       60.4               1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AKEUICA 6.CARIBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA fUS$)                   100.0       170.0      380.0                 794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUGRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      150.4        122.1     180.1                 707.5                    1324.1
PUPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0       11253.0   15274.0
URBAN PoPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4          10.2       13.8                  27.7                     64.2
PUPULATIUN PRUJECTIUNS
POPULATION IN YEA. 200U (MILLIONS)                        34.1
STAIIONARY PuFULATION (MILLIONS)                         109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULAIION IS REACHED                   2095
PUPULAIION DENSITY
P~ER SQ. FEM.                      14.1         19,3      26.2                  55.0                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2         191.4     244.4                  130.7                     94.5
POPULATO1N AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.6         48.9      50.0                  46.0                      40.7
15-64 LKS.                          49.8         48.6      47.6                  51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          2.5       2.4                   2.8                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ToTAL                               2.4          3.2       3.4                   2.8                       2.4
URBAN                               5.2          6.4       6.8                   5.1                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      52.0         52.7       51.3                  46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0         17.5       13.4                  15.8                      8.4
GRUSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.6          3.8        3.8                   3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT oF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0
FUOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-100)           99.0        100.0      86.0                   89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    99.0         99.0      88.0                  92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           70.0         68.0      52.0                  52.8                      65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         28.0      20.0                  16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALlTY RATE      34.0         22.5       15.2                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3          49.1      54.7                  50.8                      64.1
INFANT M4ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           126.0/c      119.0      91.0                    ..                      70.9
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
POPULATION;
TOTAL                                ..         15.0      17.0                  27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                          100.0     100.0                  74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                *-          2.0       4.0                  12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           50.0      55.0                                            59.9
URBAN                                ..         85.0      98.0                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                *-         45.0      48.0                     *-                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN          10690.6       7830.91d 11625.2/d             13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2230.01cd  1474.1/d  1U85.7Jd                2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             807.OLc      774.1     770.8                1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                ..           ..     602.1                 423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     802.8                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                .,          4.7
URBAN                                ..          4.7
RURAL                                ..          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               2.51c         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
UXSBAN                               ..           ..
RUKAL                                ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                              Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         60.0       99.0                  73.7                    101.7
MALE                  64.0        70.0      105.0                  96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                30.0        49.0       94.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          8.0       18.0                  16.2                     35.3
MALE                   3.0         12.0      22.0                  25.3                     34,9
FEMALE                 2.0         5.0       14.0                  14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0        2.0                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0         34.0      33.0                   36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          15.0         21.0      25.0                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0/c      30.0       45.0                    *-                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0          8.5        8.0                 32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         44.4      36.8                  69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3          1.4       4.2                   8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.0        13.8       11.2                 20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0            ..        0.4                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3299.8       4319.7    5530.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.5         34.3      33.5                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0         82.0       78.4                ,56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          7.0       9.6                  17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                40.3         38.4       36.2                  37.2                     31.8
MALE                                  53.3        50.9       48.5                  47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.5         26.1       24.1                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.4                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        20.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.67        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         3.97ie
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        11. 77
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     150.0                 381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..     112.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     179.0                 334.3                    513.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..     106.0                 137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      10.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /e Urban only.
May, 1981



A-NNEX I
- 26 -                                                                     Page 3 of 6
OtEPINITIl0tS OF SOCIAL TINICATORS
Notes:  Although the data see drama from  ejea.guelt uged the moat sofoiotesd reliable, it ahold also ha octal tht they toy rot ha  riert-
mattosaly comparable because of the lack of etuodoedleed defimitl.oo  sod -ooptc used hy differeot  ct ..troee  hocolctn   the dart.  The data are .....-
toelase,. aerial1 to dea..etho ordera of asgutoude,idi. ota ts reds. ard  boharari_te  cetain mujc ditfare....e be ...eot.. tcri-e
The esiae..o. geoupe at. 11) the sam  oratory groaP of tha eohjeoa r--try sad (2) a coostry getup rith eaea  high-colurgesg  incom   that the tocotry group
ad the subjeor o...tey (eacpt doe "Capital tueplas Oil Oportere." aetapehero "Middle Noom    oeth Afeict sod Middle tact" Ii. oh.... heocee of etrorgee
ai-tlaaeffljitise).  In ehe acrtseoce group date the. avr           o re population weighted aeith.stio ot  for each icdloatco ord sho-  erly mir
maority of rho coteiei  a group hoe deta for that iudiotor.  Sintoe oh e cooreao of ..o.otrtes nun  tha iodictors dayers or th.  -rallbtlity of data
sod is oot ..ifo.m, outior net be                 insledt  -elatl   oocgo  of roe Ind-t-to   to aooehsr.  Thet  targa  too ot>  -tful It cupro              ho raluc cf
ore lediosoor at a time  -mog abs o...etey sod eafereo.s gerops.
LAND AfiA  (thoueasd eq.tk.)                                                                      PopultolW_or perirpit-l bed - tot.l, -rbor, ted rural - Populutict (total,
Total - Total au- c  area to.m..Prisiog lard .... ..ud inlandvae.                                  o ,cd rural) divided by thier  -ep-otite namber of h'upltoal brda
Aaeirotura.  - ttimats of agrioultu...  area. used rarpo--ily er peemaustlyavilable io pubito ord trirate  ..ora o1.d spe_iol i_d hospital ar,df,e-
foe orops.  petrsmratsd kiotbon gardeos or to lie tailor; 1978 date.                            hailit.i-ael    ..croro.   o-plitcla acc ostshliah-rts peo-r l  eratfe
by at leas  etc. physiota-,  dotobluahmoots pruridleg yricipally  -cer-
ftNP ff0 CAPITA 10U$  - GNP Par capita otttor a  -ureut macht prire ..            alo -              dial rare oro rot Icluded.  .turo  hoegitola,hrce,  irtlu,de health
calated by gam  cooverior method as World Book Atlas (1977-79 hoofs); 1960,.an  rediral.. taree  -oo p.re..a.itly atof fd by a physiotat (but by 
1970, and 1979 datr.                                                                              meditrs.1   iaut  re.midotto, cur.) ehioh offac is-p-t-t teoo--
dorIes tad pecrida t limirad  -Std  of redocal fo te. far 00  r
00R017CONNO~MPTION PER COe"ITA - Ann-1a o...s.mptiar ci ro--o-rlal1 e-oey I(o                        tital PMpoer  arbor hospitals toclude WHtO. peiroipa1lgeoo....  hospitala,
sod lignite, petroleu, outara1 gas sod bydr-, ocolsar ao  geotherma  alt-                         aid  -ara  hospitr4 loca  or carol itospitols al redioal sod eate...lty
ttiotoy) io hilogram  of coal eq.olvalet per  -oyita; 19ff, 1970, cod 1979_ret-e    ptooialieed ho-plo-1  ar tortddor    rder torol.
data.                                                                                           Admiceicre ocr icertoolBMod - Total rombar uf adiosion  to oc diechoogra
fro  ho.yitae divided by the tamber ol beds.
POPULATIONt ANtD 'OCT41 STATISTICS
Tatolfetlrdn,gld-fate (tho.....da) - do of J%ly 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1679                       HOQUSNCt
dart.                                                                                         Arrr   lor    oattird  oterocitool)-total. -rhu, ard trdr1--
Debar Poot-tisa feerot of total) - Ratie of crb.0  oItlPopootior;                                 A hou-hold obauso  ugopo  idr-aa  h   hr  lirieg quat-c
differert dofinirisa   of  eba  areas may affEct coparability of data                           co  theIr -rb  moalo.  0.-boor       or ccldgat oy to toy too ht irtludad In
...g eateaa   1900  197 ,ta  107  dart..                                               ob   oa old for-      altclproo.
pooi rPlotinorsA-rrear  -abar od porsona  r  ro  - -                                                                                oto.     eur. ob     oa
PsoalIatirn io y       Dr Il   -uerea..t populotiot, projectio-  art b-en  ar 1990              toofp-      tr p  ooroc  Ital  uhu,  rruaocpid ttrio
trral popaloias by age sod sm aid their mota.lity an  fertility rate.,io  oa,rrrr-Pt-cal.  D-rllir~gt  -roldoo-o ro   attroutresso
Projeotio  paramerer  for motality rates romprIss of thra  1-vel  asu-cocuidr-,r
tag life eeyoteu-y at birth lccea..ing  ihai   -toaey's per -apite inoeaaetosaco Olctlc   (-ort r. of  -vo.ing.) -tot-l, aeht, ted rual-1
lr-al. ed fIm=l  life emp.etemoy rathiliedag at 77.5 yatre   The p.re-                        Caecirldolip  tori rlotrrtorty it  ltitg  q-rt-r   aprrtN
eaters foe fertility rata also hove three levela rsaning declire ir                           of total, arbor, ted rural  dirIlI.cgreap-ti-oly.
fertility sorordiag to le-.e. lv    rod poet fam,ily plarriog perfetor-a.
Rtah caaa..    is  thr ...signad ose of ohsee aloe toobioatiore of motality               fDUCATION
aon  fertility recode f or peojeotto yurpeo. .AdJusted EIrellart hRlt.
Strloeev  urlator I Ora   tai-ooAr  PoPu1atioA there Ia or georub stoa                    Primar  oh.o  -  ra.ri   r   sos     rr   ot,rbtd iool
rho birth rsts is aqgu1 to the droth rate, sod sl-ath aaEg oreect to-                           earrlmnt of all ag-e or rho peiray lor t1o prer-tage  of erepooti-e
aairs.. ratart.  This is acieedory oftar fertility rates drirto                                 primary, orheo1-ae pcrularior..; r-r 1y i.lorld- rhildr-t tgd 9-Il
the e-pla.easit lo-e  of ..it nte  repradauti..rotare  obo   -.abg    toa-o                     -eae  bar adjuotad for dulfo-nt largaba of primay   oair  for
of .norPIaoa. it'-If enutly.  Tho etatiomory ypaPlti-or sies or                            rotelc  vieSomiour.a tdu -rer   -11ro..eet sty eroed 110 pecrot
esiae   ithe haste of the peojeoted aharsotistisai    of the opairatrroe pupils ~           c                ar   ooro   bo_  the  igirl urhban   ge.
io the yato, lfll, ad rhe rtof deoL.or of isroillty  rare to rrpl.tee-                       ir-dery achoal- turn, mle rid tel T-o CoPaecebo;soudr
motlevl.                                                                                     edatior roquirsast loan  four Yaa_  of aproe r imary do -roioo
atatirtyopaplatior it rearhod - The year th-r s.taio..ory ppap-italo                     Proie   acs,voc s,o   eta   etitlarair o  pafi.
also has   .' hsrechd.                                                                          ..eaully of 12 to 17 yeaee of ace;  -orsodao           ersos ora toteralY
Puoariori~  -aoireoldd.
Pa   t h.-'id-yee popalutioo par equse  hilam-te  (lIf hoorarra) of                     foaiomlorolmo  (rcata   tesodary) - I.teatt..oI lu-lrui- r
iota1 arac; 1960, 1970 ead 1979 dna..                                                           ico1ud   .Rarisl  irutr , oe other pr....an. ohici  ,o-tr-oidac
Peraebe oaiulca   ad -Computtd ascrv  tot. for                tulel.lod                           artly or otryemro   f  eodaey icetitttior..
otIs; 19ff, 1970 acd 19ff d.tr.                                                               Pt-tsbeaic-yinury  ordll Alorar    Total etdoote carolled i
Potulatiot_ osSrutuet f..e..a-t) -Childean (01-i  Y-sul   orlg-g   (II-                             Primoyad erotrdar'y'loe   d1iiod by   obto- of rtc-h.ts it rho
64 pyaee)  sed renterd (65 pare   adovr   as .perosarga  of sid-peor popa-                         .....aPaodirg  eo-l..
Latter: 1960, 1970, eu  1979 data.     ..                                                       Adolt litaroro rut(oon)-  loaedl                      ol   ora  d  unrito)
Poealsioa O;reseb tto R   aree - tota   - dAruo  georth ratro of ctota  mid-                        setocerg   fcco.dl yplro  cgd  5 ptetdev.
year PopaIatlor  foe  1950-60, 190-71,oai  1970- 79.
,Perlettee irrhmi Oto  ps,,r) -. t ae.be  -9Annual geo.th rites of urbor ptpr-                CtONSUMPTIiN
lala   o   91-d   O-f,19 sod 1970-79                                                .a....Cr   a   hosr   aolro)-  asae  curt  crise motor
Caude Birth hate('er ahu--d) - Arc..  lire bietha per throsta..d of aid-year.oeatiog les  thc  sight pauos;rildot a-hlu..o.s, bh-raa.o.ad
poueto; 1960,170, sad 1979 data,                                                            mill t.ry r-biolet.
poaltir;1f0  1970, cad If979 data,                                                        hodet00gaalpbiprtouid of pylo;soue   u
trac  loedoioRt-vrg    abrofdcbeeaemuo  1bt  alcensd reocie..s it coreiasd in yacra that -reterratic of radio
bec r-s-I rerrodurtice yel. I.if she arpari-ns  P....ee.o"t et-pc ficte-                        egos os  in effe-; date for  -eter  yeor  moy rot ha ro.prablo airr
ollc  rarc.; ucoaLly fla-ypare aveags.  edi,,g ir 1960, 1970, amy 1909.                       moat  -ouateebhltohad Iloeteig.S
family lara -    ..rptoe._&   rual thousseda) - Aaaaaa  rarber of croPcors                      TV isrelter         tou..e2!1!t-,                r. lee.huodreltol-T   aovra fro  bearoas..t to
of hlirth-oonte1 dmorcudrscyrgc.cio.a. Ifamily pla...lto program.geoa  poblo ye-                                       hos pProro;    ldes arliorr...d TV rcert
PelrPlmi1     ae  )tror.r, of maririo r  - Prarrt.ga of mareld                               is rorelead it ytor  ito.raarairo   Vaeer   I   ffect.
soa   f ohild-beoniog ago (15-44 y-.e) ahm  .or  hirth-cot-o  deviotat                        Neosrara  Cirlruirto  (Car thou...nd po-rlocto)     -ttu  theorgo  ati-
all ervid tote  in sou  ago groop.                                                              oulatior of "dI     -goea   ltrace-apePr"  dfiud saPariou l
yabll-stiom  de...tec princrily to  --odirg g-tr-   ee.IIi 1           ooruldercd
Pl'OD ANDf NUTRITION                                                                                to hr "daily", if it spycso.. - ut  four--  tints~ teeth.
loder of Paod Proatio-  .er Cacioc (1096?7>111) - Irdar of par capitaarao                       Cir- doA-I deteod-rc  .r  C-ra ear fry- ase...d or the tonherof
peaduote  ofal  foodI  cmo-doitra,  Peadoctier arlade ..oe.d aod trod tod                       tiobors sold duritg hs year, tui-adig  dairti-o  tc dcioc-irticsmaa
it or rli-dar Poar bal.   Coamditios 00000 primary goods (.g. raga-ru                           ai     bohl  cls
tosimod of .Sogr) ouhil ore edboadarti   crst  (e.g. re .eaad
te-  tor  ecluded).  Agoa.gato phadortiot of .a-h coorary to baaad cc                      1.430R PFCIC
catota  sotrc podoeeprio  reighta; 1901-h),~ ig70, aid 199daa                          Total Labor Force,, (thoeud)-  or-lao-otorprer,i-cidia
Me  tet   psoly of o               ...to   _rrr of etrir"mos) - Compurod fra                    armed torca..e  urmytoyd  h trului   htc--olor  outerto ,ar,
..o rgy aq,ivolout of ta  ford eupplios  _rilal  it  .torty par -apitoc rngPIPu Ilal,u of all ag.,  lofltiolo..  ir  -lt..  C...otriea cr0
pot day.  Aal-labir soypliat oaaprbo -domosuIr prodacatro, im Ports learo.on.ab.   19601  19 70 sod 1979 dato.
reot,od charge- in stark.  Nte  supplies en doud   a         -lal dc, seeds,           Pamel  (r2-cero  - P-!. -abr              - frer ..to  revcrcg  If oota  laborfoce
q.uortlries usd ii food pr.ocea...   aud beersIt distributica. cRqaira-                     orolur(eor)-l rieeit f_rot  ,firc try, Iciriug aid
moac  meet . i tairod by PAC based co phy.lologlool ao    fr  _roma .toi-                    fiahoogasprerf   f rea2 labor fr-; 1911. 197  tad 1970 dat.
rity and heolth   esieir -rir_tmto1 rarperarure  body nelgits, tog                          Ioduetry(ccro-  abor ftror it olirio ... rrur-tior,  maof-ot-io
a   d a tisobrto    fpplrc,  r   lolg1  prrort forosot                                   Irdolotriruty, -oto  oI a   rpo tara  ttllbr  oc;10,
hoasbo. :hllroe; 1g6l-65, 1971,Dcod 1'977`da'ta,                                              1910 cod 1079 dar.ta.t1lbrf-
Pacs ptasarly  f  rorei, (gam oar day)  - Protisi  contort of per topita                Paertirati-r hate  yr o    trt.1, male, sod foe1l  - Pcrtiripotior or
ta   upl  at foo  yea  dy.rt syl oI f food to daflr-d  u abovo.  he-                       arriofty rorg arc comPute, e  tel ..        le,I ard femal. lebor foroca
quiraneta f or allcrrrlr  rtcblisbod by CSDA proridr tar olci-u                                actac  of  -tta, mal  or Zfoal. p.p..t.o  o.f oil agS.. acttel
alloe-ico  f 00 Seama of toedl prft 'o pr day and IC gram  of atOna  ted                      1960, 1970, cod 1979 data.   Th.o  ore bood .. TLfe  parodoip-tico ratra
pulse prorof, of sehtch 10  eas-  ebu    rainal prtrlc.  Ther  aeon.-                         reflo-tir  agf-ta  otru tart. of rhe p-utto,   d bug tico  ttol.. 
teds  o_ lover that thoa  of 75 groma of trta1 prtol.ooad213 Srars of     fe, cat1ostro  _c  lrca"ri_1.o.~ro
arMol proroir aga.  avorage for rho morld, p-rp..ed by PAl h i ha th.       r                c srlpo u E.Rtuic - htie of y.~opai-scr -hr 11 aid 65 aol trr
b'eld Pood gorrey; 1961-65, 197) ard 1977 dana.                                               to  the  otal. labor force
Pcr  .Polr     t ...ci  ....l bra,, to,-I to  rle   - Prorric capyly of fool de-
need, from sonals cod pulsar it arom  per day; 1961-65, 1970 aod 19777 data.              ICOM  DISThl1UION7
Child(te       )Mraiyhe  pyrt th-uearI - A...ol drone. per obhurid to                           Percootag.. of yrtrar  Icron  j2-k4   ot o   bird)      torol-d hy ricat
tee group 1-4 ycora, to rhildrrto thago gry.aP; frm    dreelaplog ...i                          I prro.r ot     ir   1prr, -yo-r20         20 pcetr  an  fr-er 401 per..et
tries dart derived from life nobl-; 19601, 1970 ard 1979 dots,                                  of h_oorh1ds..
HEALTHt                                                                                         POVERTY TARGCT GROUPS
Lifa tnrota..r at oreitth (ytr...    Avtrge tubat of yrure tf lit~ r-rmoilo                     The folovirg etnoiats. aer vety approo-tat  reror ft prorety Ieora,
tt birth; 1960,  171 I'ld 197l da ta.                                                           en  hd h r.I   b torea   rub  rorsirrI'e r'tuio
Intftat Mortnlity Ott  (ocr th.ueand) - gnAa--l deaths ofiroe uod-r -r  yact                    CErtmatd Ahorlote P.ortey  -ro-  Leve  IO ret crt.O - arbor ar   tur-1
of age per tha..ead Iloc birtho.                                                                Abeolurc povoey income lt-'o  Ia rit   ot    level  tleo  ouhl   a olima
hArass to Safa Wator (eerraotI of I;roliio- toot,  -rbo, oud rua               H u-               rateriora11y odoqosto dior plt oree-tial1 rot-fod rtquirretr  Ia. rot
bee of people (total, urban, aod raelsih  eaonble Ots toart                                      I ffordable.
_erse eapply (looladro treated        I-rarsrrao   ore d bar unco.rslrtod                     Eta -tltd Rola'tiv'focr Duom  Loom1 (ll ear  -ooto) - unto cod rurl 
P..ccrgfao   bi   eneP. oueros                     ia   rhrrepht
Ihlr r-p-til.   1. on -b-           .bl il                 pe"sIra Ii-oro of tho oucotry.  Irbor lrr  is derived frau rac rural
fa lorscdpotbanrtmr   hu21mtr                         mahrsny hrl_r  aich adjoatmot for bighbt-oto   ivitg it ocher,  tt-..
ooleo   ebei:ng rithic resromablo arrees  f tt h..a..  Is rural ttt                    siae  ocaioBlos Acholoto fooo   ooe1                     ae   ocao   -uban
reaorale  coee ou I  imly  hat the  b    ioof.a or  ..nhere of the theesul              and rarol 1- forrat of popul.otlor F(ohoc- ae   uo) ri   eo"baclute
do -c hrr 00 aperd a dlepropetiorar purr of thr day Ir fatohlng rhoP.t"
farily'. soarr reeds.
N=_ba  of people (totl  urbat,  co   ua)cre   yere    tapsac
perocottece cf the ir reepcrtiveppualos   lrrr i-               oc  eay ti-lur
the oolerrmad diaposl   ibc   lha  ee aotr-  ef. .c..                  orat fItri  ad racial Dr.t                                                                  riio
adoeawsebyvat--!b-r  eyeten  or tha car of Pit petita. aid  imie                                                        crof  coIyota ord Pr-o-tios- lofort-ar
Poeieio te  P  eioio    fpulattac  l,dividd by taboc of poaiigphyal-
"P"glts pc   a El   Pcesoo - FPop tlant    diiidai by oancr of.pra-tiritg
mal  ar  fetlegrauot  atar, patrtital n.re.s, .ed aaietatoce.



Atmez I
Popdlatioro  15.865 million (1980)                          - 27 -                                                    Page 4 of 6
GIP Per Capita:  tS$420 (1980)
KifUA - EaOiC IICA:
1980
Indicator                               Amot                              Annal Growth Rate (x)
(million IB$ at        ActualJa                 _rojected/a
current prices)  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980      1981   1982   1986   1991   1995
National Accounts
Gross dmestic product at m.p.         5986.0          2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4       3.1    3.3    4.5    5.5    5.5
Agriculture                         1463.8          1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2       2.0    3.2    3.7    4.0    4.0
Imiustry                             865.3         -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8       4.0    4.0    5.0    7.0    7.0
Services                            1934.9          4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7       4.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    5.6
Conption                                5962.4        -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3        7.1   -0.5    3.6    4.3    4.3
Gross Investment                        1882.0         12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3    -14.8    2.0    4.6    5.5    5.5
Exports of QIFS                         1980.5          6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2    -13.7    4.6    4.8    6.5    6.5
Imports of (GES                         2832.8        -2.7   18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9   -12.8   -6.4    2.3    3.1    3.1
Gross National Savings                   870.4         17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4   -13.6   29.6    8.0    9.4    9.7
Prices
GDP deflator/b                         100.0         71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    108.0  115.6  145.9  195.2  246.5
Exchange rate ([Sh.Ar.$)              7.4202       8.3671 8.2766 7.7294 7.4753 7.4202    9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091
Share of GDP at nmrket prices (%)          Average Anal Growth Rate (x)/a
(at current prices)/c
Artual                 Projected
1974   1979   198D   1986   1991   1995       1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Gross danestic proiuct at m.p.      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          4.7       4.2      5.2      5.5
Agriculture/d                      35.4   34.3   32.5   31.0   29.2   27.6           4.4      3.5      3.9      4.0
Industry/d                         20.7   26.1   21.8   22.4   23.7   25.1          6.1       4.6      6.5      7.0
Services/d                         43.9   39.6   45.7   46.7   47.1   47.3           4.9      4.6      5.3      5.6
Consunption                          81.5   84.2   85.3   81.9   77.6   74.3           5.6      2.7      4.0      4.3
Gross Investment                     25.8   22.7   26.9   22.9   23.0   23.0         -1.5      5.0       5.3      5.5
Exports GM                           33.7   25.5   28.3   24.5   25.7   26.7         -1.2       4.7      6.2      6.5
Imports CWS                          40.9   32.4   40.5   29.3   26.4   24.0         -2.0      1.3       3.0      3.1
Gross national savings               14.5   13.0   12.1   15.7   19.0   22.4          0.6      12.2      9.2      9.7
As % of GDP
PUHIC FDINA1&                            1974  1979  1980
Current revenues                        16.0  24.7  24.8
Current expenditures                   14.3  22.5  23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)              1.8   2.2   1.8
Capital expenditure                     6.1   9.7  10.1
Foreign financing                       2.0   4.2   5.4
OTHER INDICA1TS                        1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
GP growth rate (X)                     4.9      4.1      5.1      5.6
CNP per capita growth rate (Z)         1.0      0.2      1.3      1.9
Energy consuaption growth rate (1)     4.9      2.5      3.1      3.3
ICOR                                   7.8      5.4      4.5      4.2
Marginal savings rate                  .268    .333     .322      .375
Import elasticity                     -0.4      0.3      0.6      0.6
la Growth rates for historical years are based in constant 1976 prices; projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/b KSh. deflator based in 1976 prices.
I|T Projected years in constant 198) prices.
/d Share of GDP at factor cost.
April 7, 1982
EAIDA



Population: 15.865 million (1980)                          - 28 -                                                     nex   I
Gal Per Capita: iS$420 (1980)                                                                                         Page 5 of 6
IRIA - EXnRIAL 3AE
Aunmt                                      Armual Growth Rate (x)/a
Indlicator                       (million CS$ at                     Actual                                 ProJected
cwrernt prices)
198)               1976   1977   1978   1979   1982    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991
&L4LTA TRAEE.
Merchandise exports                  1247.2               6.4    4.0   -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -13.2    4.6    4.6    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.4
Primary/b                           963.4              12.4    9.0   -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -18.3    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
manufactures/c                     283.8                0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1   29.6        3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    6.8
Merharadise imports                 2612.2               -3.8   22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4    3.1    2.5    2.3    2.3    3.0
Food/d                             111.2                5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2   57.6   -23.0   -9.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0
Petroleou/e                        778.6               -8.3    4.0    2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    3.0
I acniery nd euipmsnt/f             706.4             -16.7   36.0   29.4  -28.4   19.0    -9.5   -2.9    5.5    3.4    3.4    3.4    4.0
Others                             1016.0                ..      ..      ..     ..      ..   -13.1   -9.6    1.8    1.8    1.2    1.0    2.5
Export price index                                     73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Import price index                                     65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Terms of trade index                                   112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
zposition of Mrchandise Trade (x)            Average AnaLal ITwFrease (x)/a
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974  1979  1981  1986  1991  1995         1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Exports
Ftrimary                                71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6            2.1       4.8      6.2      6.3
Mm1factures/h                           29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4          -11.3       4.4      6.3      7.0
Imports
Food                                     6.6   5.3   3.7   3.4   2.9   2.1          -10.4       -0.3       -       -
Petrole.in                              21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9           -2.8        1.5      3.0    3.0
Machinery and equipmt                   22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6            1.7        2.9      3.9    3.9
Others                                  49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4             ..       -0.1      2.4    2.6
/a HlstorctaL growth rates are base in 19/e prices; projected growth rates in 1980 prices
/b  Based on weighted quanbun indices (base year - 1976) of food, live animals, and crude materials
/c Excludes petroleum products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated b,' international inflation index bo arrive at constant price
serles.
/d  Based on quantus index (base year - 1976) for SITC 0.
Fe Based on quantm index (base year - 1976) for STIM 3.
/T  Based on quantum imiex (base year = 1976) for SITC 7.
Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.
Excludes petrolem products.
April 7, 1982
aAIDA



Inex I
Population: 15.865 million (1980)                         - 29 -                                                   Page 6 of 6
G8P per capita: tS$420 (1980)
KENY  - BLAN  OF PAYRS, EUC tNL CAPITAL m) rEEr
(million IB$ at  wrrent prices)
Actual                                   Pmjacted
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980      1981    1982    1986    1991    1995
BLINC OF PAhY;Z
Exports of gpods nid services         1184.6  1614.9  1581.0  1629.6  2032.8    1651.7  1821.5  2933.0  5447.0  9033.5
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.         743.9  1130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  1809.3  3423.4  5758.4
Imports of goods snd services         1300.3  1653.9  2332.6. 2206.8  3069.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7 10547.5
of Viaich: Merchandise c.i.f.        975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.8    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                           32.3    66.5    91.1   100.1   139.6      153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Acaont alance                  -63.4    27.5  -660.6  -477.0  -897.0   -634.6  -659.7  1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct irvestmnt                37.7    54.5    32.1    66.4    61.2       66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
MLT loans (net)                        111.9   145.6   410.1   412.5   515.3      460.2   552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                ..      ..      ..      ..      ..    (304.4) (546.4) (401.3) (568.1) (829.4)
Private                                 ..      ..      ..      ..      ..    (155.7)   (6.2) (464.9) (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                           19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9      108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Caange in reserves                     -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6      200.0   -65.0  -49.7   -86.6  -122.9
International Reserves                 425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7     291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves aa months imports               4.3     5.2     3.8     5.1     2.9       1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5
ECIERNAL CAPITAL AND EEIr
Gross Disbursements                    180.9   231.6   285.1   376.8   420.8      566.0   689.5  1151.6  1738.4  1637.3
Official grants/a                       ..      ..      ..       .       ..       ..       ..
Concessional loans                    63.3    64.7   104.5   149.9   179.6      215.8   313.5   329.3   509.6   675.9
DAr,                                46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2      133.0   127.0   158.6   223.2   292.5
OPEC                                 -       -       -       -        -        19.5    50.3    37.6    52.7    69.1
IDLk                                13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6       30.5    90.8    75.7   140.9   192.6
Otber                                3.6    13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8       32.8    45.4    57.5    92.8   121.6
Non-concessional loans               117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2      350.2   376.0   822.3  1228.8   961.4
Offical export credits              18.8    11.0    17.6     8.5    10.1       26.5    55.5    75.2   105.4   138.2
IBRD                                66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0       77.2   197.2   112.3   214.4   294.8
Othr official                        2.1    11.5     7.6     4.8    21.0       11.1    10.1     1.9     -       -
Private                             30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0      235.4   113.2   633.0   909.0   528.5
External Debt
MRieEt ouiing and disbursed          700.8   917.2  1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b 2888.9/b 5817.3/bl0873.3/bl4359.5/b
Official                           605.2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3  2139.7  4117.2  6651.1  9506.3
Private                             95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2      743.0   749.2  1700.1  4222.1  4853.2
Undisbursed debt                     629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7  1323.0  1584.2  2518.1  3319.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                65.3    74.6   121.6   120.2   183.0      201.8   271.2   531.3  1193.7  1652.1
Interest                            31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5       96.0   134.3   245.9   522.3   668.9
Payments as x of exports               5.7     4.8     7.9     7.6     9.2       12.2    14.9    18.1    21.9    18.3
Averge interest rate on new loans (S)
Official                               4.5     4.0     4.0     3.8      3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Private                                7.7     7.7     7.7    12.0     8.0        9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0     9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                              26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0       28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
Private                                9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9     5.9       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                               8.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                              100.0
/a Official grants are ircluded in transfers in the balance of paymnts current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
anarul rate of 10%.
/b Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
April 7, 1982
WAM



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1982
US$ Million
Loan or                                                            Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                            Bankl   TW   IDAl Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) Loans and Twenty (20) Credits and one (1)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                301.68  5.00 209.72
477       1974    Kenya        Livestock                                       17.50      6.98
537       1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                        7.50      3.67
1105       1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                  8.00                    2.28
1184       1976    Kenya        Third Education                   10.00                    8.16
( 650      (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development                   10.00   ( 3.70
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development           10.00            (10.00
1304-T     1977    Kenya        Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00             8.32
1305       1977    Kenya        Rural Access Roads                 4.00                    4.00
1389       1977    Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                    5.49
1438       1977    IDB          Third Industrial Dev. Bank        20.00                    6.46
1449       1977    Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                   31.89
750       1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.00      8.22
1520       1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                   19.42
( 791      (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                                    25.00   (21.51
(1550      (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                      25.00                  (25.00
797       1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                 23.00    18.17
1636       1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                   67.27
1637       1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.00                  19.89
858       1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00    12.38
1680       1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                   10.51
1684       1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                  84.89
914       1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00    26.18
959       1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                    46.00    44.67
962       1980    Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                    6.50      5.88
1799       1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                     15.93
1817       1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                  27.53
1045       1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                  4.50      4.49
1051       1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                       10.00    10.00
1107       1981    Kenya        Fifth Education                                 35.90    35.90
1976       1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                  58.00
(1143      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agricultur 34                             9.40     9.40
(1995      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth AgriculturD                25.00                  25.00
2065       1982    Kenya        Petroleum Exploration              4.00                    4.00
(2098      (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III  3                   21.50                  21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III 3                                   16.00   16.00
1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing3 4                      22.00   22.00
Total                            838.18 32.00  493.02  704.69
of which has been repaid         44.80   -       2.57
Total now outstanding            793.38 32.00  490.45
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               793.38 32.00  490.45
TOTAL undisbursed                            437.22 18.32  257.46  704.69
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1982
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank1    Undisbursed
US$ milllion-----
Six loans fully disbursed                            135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC        Second Harbours        35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Third Harbours         26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.         32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB       Second Dev. Finance   15.00           3.11
Total                                             244.80         4.26
of which has been repaid                          72.41
Total now outstanding                             172.39
Amount sold                            24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bankl                           172.39
Total undisbursed                                   4.26         4.26
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C.  Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of March 31, 1982)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. A joint Bank/GOK evaluation
exercise commenced in early April 1982 to evaluate in particular the water
development activities and to set up the framework for the PCR. Agreement
was also reached between the Government and the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and the Association that since the total amount of the
credit could not be utilized even with the proposed new closing date, Us$4.0
million would be cancelled.
Credit No. 537-KE3 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of Marchi 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The progress of rehabilitation of existing project farms has
encountered a variety of legal, social, political and financial problems.
Despite project efforts to recruit qualified farm managers, most of the farms
continue to suffer from inadequate financial and operational management.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in executions and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/  Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
- 33 -
Rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee estates, seems to be
proceeding satisfactorily as the majority of project farm group owners would
like to subdivide. To date they have been constrained by large debts for
common assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines
on legal subdivision of group farms.   The Government needs to review the
implications of sub-division for the regions concerned, and prepare a project
to rationalize existing subdivisions and provide agricultural services. In
the interim, recruitment of additional farms has stopped, and the total loan
amount (US$7.5 million) has been cancelled at the Government's request.
Loan No, 1389-KiE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31,_1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
1981 production of cane, particularly from outgrowers, was well below
management estimates, due to lower cane yields, a smaller area available for
harvest and low sugar recovery. A research program is being drawn up to
identify reasons for low yields. All civil works are virtually completed,
work on minor roads is improving and major road works are proceeding
satisfactorily. Certain weaknesses in project management, particularly cane
handling and transport, have become apparent, and cbnsultants are being
employed to rectify this problem. Although statutory sugar prices were
changed for the second time in a year in December 1981, SONY (the Project
entity) is experiencing serious financial difficulties. These are
attributable to unrealistic pricing policies, lower throughput, and SONY's
high fixed costs and debt service obligations. SONY has requested an
immediate cash injection from Government, who is presently considering a
special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 27, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. The civil works are nearly completed and the first settlers
have arrived. Recent revised project cost estimates show a reduction in
estimated project costs, which previously showed serious cost overruns.
Although reduced, a financing gap continues and Government is studying
options for modifying project design and reducing costs. Project management
has experienced problems, but will be improved through recruitment of
agricultural management consultants.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, and has now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.



ANNEX II
- 34, -                        Page 5 of 15
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the complementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Low prices have led to a drop in carne supply. In spite of the
economic difficulties facing the sugar production sector, investments in new
factories are being projected. A study to review sugar marketing prospects
is now underway, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Once this is complete, appropriate changes in project scope and
design will be discussed with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June .8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 3, 19.83
In late 1980 it became obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production, could not be substantially met in the remaining years of
the project. The Masai continue to prefer to hire tractor and combine
services, or to contract all production activities. Government and the Bank
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies monitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.
Credit No. 914-KB - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date:  Ap0;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Principal project activities have been affected by lower than
estimated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements.
Training has made good progress, but training programs need to be expanded
and accelerated. Coffee factory rehabilitation has also been delayed due to
problems in project coordination and management, deficient loan applications
from cooperatives and insufficient technical staff. A short-term program has
been agreed to minimize effects for the upcoming season, but project
management and budgeting need improvement and more technical assistance is
necessary. Financial difficulties are expected to continue to prevail in the
near future, and whether Project infrastructure, equipment and personnel will
be utilized in an optimal fashion will depend on future Government funding of
the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project implementation started out favorably. The project team of
expatriate and local technicians launched a number of experiments in dry-land



ANNEX II
Page 6 of;15
- 35 -
and irrgated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management. Project demonstrations attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities has increased. In the
last year, however, there has been a deterioration in the project's
performance resulting from financing constraints which have in turn adversely
affected staff performance and morale. Government allocations to the project
are less than 50% of appraisal estimates, and project management has had
difficulties in getting even those funds released. The shortfall has had a
particular impact on construction of project housing, which is sorely
inadequate, and on project field services. Little progress has been made on
the range management and livestock component, due to lack of technical
personnel. The Bank has recommended that special financing arrangements,
based on a revolving fund, be investigated to overcome financing problems.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high. This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production component of the project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructural components, although all
have been affected by severe budget cuts. Project problems include large
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, the inefficiencies
of the farm input delivery system and inadequate crop marketing
arrangements. There is a critical need to improve the coordination of the
many participating Ministries, upgrade the research and extension services,
and make the Ministry of Cooperative Development a more effective
institution. IADP is the Government's major vehicle to assist Kenya's
smallholder.farmers. Though progress has been disappointing, Bank
participation has made Government aware of problems in implementation. As a
first step in redesigning the IADP program, the Government is developing a
pilot training and visit extension effort in IADP areas, and seeking
improvements in the management of cooperatives, and distribution of credit.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has been slow in starting up, partly due to
several unanticipated problems related to donor coordination, acquisition of
land rights and delays in the conclusion of the subsidiary financing
agreement governing provisions for credit to fishing cooperatives. These
issues have been resolved. The Project Unit is now focussing on
strengthening of cooperatives, planning of improved fish marketing services,
and reviewing designs for the fish farming development center to be
constructed. The tendering of major contracts for equipment, construction
and technical assistance is expected to be completed by September 1982.



ANNEX I I
Page 7 of 15
36 
Loan No. l995-E/Credit No. 1143<E:  Fourth A ricultural Credit
Project of Ma_1_9_981  Closing Date:  December 31,_1985
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE:  Third Forestrv Pro ect:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$1.6.0 million Credit of Mlarch 2 1982
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Pro ect: US$10.0 million Loan
ofDeember31   195iEffective Date: March 17, 1976; Cosin   Date:
June-30 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Latest cost estimates indicated an increase of about 19% in total
project cost. Minimal progress in preparation of a new and appropriate
curriculum has been made by the Kenya Institute of Education, who has a
leading role in improvement of primary education.  Provision under the Fifth
Education Project for strengthening the Project Unit was expected to
improve management of implementation activities.  However, it appears that
Government is not timely in implementing agreement in this respect. The
Government has requested an extension of the Closing Date for this project,
and this proposal, inter alia, is to be reviewed by a mission planned for May
1982.
Credit No. 797-KB - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7  1978; Effective Date:  August 25, 1978; Cloing Date:  December
31, 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion).  Revised total  project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximatley 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily.  Problems persist in management of the iaplementation of the
project.  The Government has requested, inter alia, an extension of the
Closing Date for this project, and this proposal is to be reviewed by a
mission planned for May 1982.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.04 million Credit
of May 7  1981; Effective Date:July 30, 1981;_Closing Date:  June 30
1986
Start-up activities which began with funding under a Project
Preparation Facility are progressing with designs completed for all civil
4/  IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
- 37 -
works components. Procurement of equipment and furniture has not commenced
and no technical assistance has been utilized yet. The fellowship program,
started with funding under the PPF, is underway with six staff members of the
Kenya Education Staff Institute having completed short courses in the United
Kingdom. One other long-term fellowship has been awarded and selection
procedures are well underway for others. A Steering Committee has been
appointed and has commenced planning the work and budget for the
pre-investment study on business education. In order to facilitate
coordination of the project, representatives of the ministries participating
in the project have been nominated although they have not yet met. The
provisions for the strengthening of the PIU have not been achieved and poses
a serious threat to efficient implementation. This will be assessed during
the May 1982 supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administratibn and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. The financial
performance of the water supply and sewerage operations has been good.
However, the Nairobi City Council's (NCC) financial condition has seriously
deteriorated over the last year and it has been necessary to use funds
generated from water supply and sewerage operations to finance NCC's other
expenditures.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date:  January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) proposes to reduce the
scope of the project to 24 sub-projects from the originally proposed 33.
Some sub-projects have been combined with others, some areas are to be served
from existing systems and some sub-projects have been deferred to later
programs in order to accomplish this reduction in scope and to maintain the
project cost within the appraisal estimate. The project is about two years
behind schedule but the preparatory studies and designs are now well
underway. Training is progressing, procurement of vehicles is proceeding and
an acceptable water tariff structure has been reestablished.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
- 38
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9 1976; Effective
Date:  October 7, 1976;  Closing Date;  June30U, 19s3
The project is about two years behind schedule due to
administration and procurement problems which initially delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, satisfactorily staffed and are now operational since these problems
were resolved in 1978. By December 15, 1981, 1,083 km of access roads had
been constructed or 83 km more than originally anticipated. Since June 1980,
when minimum wage was increased by 67%, the labor shortage has been resolved
and the output of construction units has been increased from 32 km/unit/year
to present output of about 50 km/unit/year, as compared with appraisal
estimates of 45km/unit/year. The gravelling operation was slow in starting
because of delays in delivery tractors and trailers, the output was low due
to the labor shortage until 1980, inadequate planning, organization and
supervision. As a result only 336 km of roads had been gravelled by December
15, 1981, and present gravelling backlog of 742 km is considered as the major
problem. The Government has taken several steps to improve gravelling output
and is considering further action to clear the backlog. The road
construction cost is within appraisal estimates. The project completion
depends on gravelling output, which will require an additional two years to
complete on the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's 5-year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has been delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds has caused a reduction by about 28% in the highway work program during
FY1979-82. This reduction has affected the project implementation which is
presently about 18 months behind schedule. The four contracts for
construction of the Uplands-Limuru (11 km), Naivasha-Nakuru (56 km), Mau
Summit-Kisumu (136 km) and Nakuru-Timboroa (81 km) roads were signed and the
construction is progressing satisfactorily. The tender documents for the
remaining two subprojects, Thika-Nairobi (39 kn) and Longonot-Uplands (27 km)
were issued recently and the contract award is expected in September 1982.
With these commitments, project completion is expected by mid-1985 as
originally scheduled. Implementation of the road maintenance program is also
slower than originally anticipated due to the financial constraints. Road
maintenance budgetary allocations for FY82 are about 40% below actual
requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling operations are slower than
projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor due to the lack of funds,
inadequate planning, programming and supervision resulting in low utilization
of existing resources, particuarly equipment and manpower. The Government is
in the process of reviewing development and recurrent expenditures to arrive
at a more balanced annual allocations in the future.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                          Page 10 of 15
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date:  September 3, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway. Crown Agents have been appointed as agents for the Kenya Railways
Corporation (KRC) and procurement is now underway. From an operations point
of view, KRC is slightly above the targets set at appraisal.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal
Engineering Loan (S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under
the loan has been satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was placed into
commercial service in August 1981, one month later than scheduled, and the
second 15-MW unit is expected to be in operation by December 1982, 3 months
ahead of schedule. Fifteen production wells have been drilled under this
loan and steam capable of producing 37 MW of electric power has been proven.
Three as yet untested wells are estimated to provide another 5 MW of power.
The project is expected to be completed within the cost estimate. As a
result of the success of the Project and the proven availability of surplus
geothermal energy, the Borrower has now asked the Bank to provide part of the
funds required for the installation of a third 15-MW unit, and the request is
now under consideration.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project:  UD$4.0 million
Loan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date: January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The Loan became effective January 27, 1982.
*          INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date:  November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
March 31, 1982, US$20.0 million had been fully committed and US$13.5 million
had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation by Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) remains
unsatisfactory. KIE needs to (a) revise and adopt a realistic operational



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
- 40 -
plan; (b) make the arrears collection program more systematic and effective;
(c) tighten the project selection and approval criteria to improve the
quality of projects it finances; and (d) appoint a qualified finance manager.
As of March 31, 1982, US$4.8 million had been committed for 91 subloans and
some technical assistance, but only US$1.8 million had been disbursed. About
half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the remainder
allocated to small free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Eleven subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As
at March 31, 1982, US$14.2 million had been committed and US$2.7 million had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Approval Committee established under this project has
now approved three proposals to study fluorspar, diatomite and chinchona
bark processing. These submissions are now being reviewed by Bank staff.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for all
Bank-financed goods have been signed. Total loan disbursements as of March
31, 1982 amount to about US$9.5 million. Initial delays in procurement of
goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project completion. Kenya
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has completed the
installation of a total of 1,050 lines of extension equipment in eight manual
exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 480 lines in four
exchanges is expected to be inservice in 1982. KPTC has also installed
17,500 (out of about 62,000) lines of automatic exchange lines, and has
commissioned microwave radio equipment to complete the Pan African
Telecommunications Network (Phase III).
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project implementation is satisfactory, with major civil
works contracts in the final stages of completion. However, the community
facilities will not be completed until 1983, and additional time is required



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
- 41 -
to draw down the material loar-3. Therefore, it will be necessary to extend
the closing date of the loan by ore year. Disbursements are 87% of the
revised appraisal estimates, reflecting overall implementation delay of about
two years. Maintenance of infrastructure work and refuse collection is
unsatisfactory and remains a city-wide problem. Housing consolidation on the
whole is good. Enforcement on valuations of underdeveloped plots and plots
in arrears is taking place. However, the total amount of arrears is rising,
and the City Council has been asked to take even more vigorous action on
debtors.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is over two years behind schedule and this is reflected
in slow disbursements. However, most of the civil works contracts have now
been tendered or will be tendered in the next couple of months, so it is
expected that the disbursement performance will improve substantially over
the next year. Shortage of technical staff remains a problem which does not
appear to have any easy solution. The financial position of the Nairobi City
Council remains a serious problem. Mombasa Municipal Council has
successfully introduced its new valuation roll, and the Commissioner of Lands
has promised to provide assistance during 1982 to K'isumu in revising its
evaluation role.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30,1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. All physical components
of the project are under construction and nearing completion with the
exception of the Naivasha Training Institute, which is not expected to be
completed before approximately October 1983.  The delay is due mainly to the
late appointment of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study
have been completed, and recommendations contained in these two studies are
under review by the Government. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed
and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory.
While satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns from
wildlife to ranchers in project areas, Government has been unable so far to
complete negotiations with County Councils regarding management of national
reserves as foreseen under the loan. Alternative proposals are awaited from
Government. A postponement of the closing date by about two years will be
required in order to allow the completion of the construction of the Naivasha
Institute and for the further financing of the operations of road
construction units established under the project, which commenced only
recently.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
- 42 -
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.5
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA, and
US$26.5 million of Loan 865-EA, have already been disbursed. Following
project completion, a Project Completion Report was issued dated February 16,
1979.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
5/  Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
- 43 -
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1982
Fiscal Year       Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in us$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979           Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2        6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4      -        2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3     2.8       9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market    2.0        -        2.0
1980           Development Finance       Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance              -      1.3       1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                   Market             5.0      -        5.0
1982           Bamburi Portland          Cement &            4.6       -       4.6
Cement Co., Ltd.         Construction
Material
Total Gross Commitments                   47.7    11.1      58.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   13.7      1.8      15.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC         34.0     9.3      43.3
Total Undisbursed                         14.7      -       14.7



ANNEX III
- 45-
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                           May 1981
(b)  Pre-appraisal                            October 1981
(c)  Appraisal                                January/February 1982
(d)  Negotiations                             April-May 1982
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness            September 1982
Section II: Special Implementation Action
An advance of US$350,000 under the PPF was approved in May 17,
1982, to assist in project start-up activities.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(1)    As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would appoint a
project coordinator, whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience
would be acceptable to IDA (para. 59)
(2) Government would complete the grain marketing study by January 1983,
and will discuss with IDA the interim and final reports (para. 49);
(3) The Government would discuss with IDA by September 1982, terms of
reference for a subdivision review and project preparation; all interim and
final reports would also be discussed with IDA; the review would be completed
by December 1982 and the project preparation by March 1983 (para. 51).
(4) Government would establish a Project Steering Committee, which would
meet periodically to discuss project activities (para. 59).
(5) Conditions of disbursement include:
(a) for funds to increase the processing capacity of KREMU,
Government would assure that adequate technical
assistance is available to KREMU (para. 52);
(b) for funds to the Technical Assistance Pool, the
Government would satisfy all conditions of its contract
with the executing agency (para. 56);
(c) for funds for the microprocessor program in project years
two and three, IDA would agree to expansion of the
program (para. 57).



ANNEX IV
- 46-                              Page 1Lof 2
Tentative List of Expert Services Needed
Under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
A. Grain Pricing and Marketing
A total of 83 man-months of technical assistance would be provided
for this component, broken down into three main areas of activity: (a) study
of grain marketing and grain marketing institutions: 65 man-months; (b)
formulation of grain marketing reforms, market development and food security
plans: 6 man-months; and (c) improvement of the quality of grain statistics:
12 man-months.
(a)    Grain Marketing and Marketing Institutions Study:  65 man-months
for an interdisciplinary team to (i) review the current grain marketing
system and performance of key market participants (NCPB, KFA, cooperatives
and traders) and (ii) make recommendations on optimal policies for improving
market efficiency, promoting market development, providing for food security
and improving grain statistics. The study team would include experts in
grain marketing, agricultural economics, economics, management, financial
systems and accounting, and statistics.
(b)    Planning:  6 man-months of technical assistance to assist the
Government in formulating plans for improving grain marketing for market
development, and for national food security. Specialists in grain marketing
and/or food planning would be recruited.
(c)    Improvement of Grain Statistics:  12 man-months for a statistician
specialized in agricultural statistics to assist in identifying and
implementing measures to improve the quality of grain statistics.
B. Land Policy
A total of 40 man-months of technical assistance has been provided
for a review of subdivision and project preparation over two phases: first,
approximately 10 man-months for the examination the status of and constraints
to subdivision, and second, approximately 30 man-months for preparation of a
project in this area. An interdisciplinary team for both phases is
envisaged, which would include an economist, agricultural economist,
sociologist, lawyer, surveyor, marketing expert, roads expert and expert in
agricultural project preparation and design.
C. Management and Budget
The project would provide 42 man-months of consulting services
tosupport activities in the following areas: (a) financial management and
budget: 12 man-months; (b) management issues: 10 man-months; (c)
microprocessors: 5 man-months; and (d) training: 15 man-months. The
project would also provide partial support (10% of total costs) for
approximately 47 man-years of advisory services through the Technical
Assistance Pool (TAP) as well as 3 man-years for an advisor on budget
financial management, and 3 man-years for a microprocessor advisor/trainer.
Local consultants would be used as much as possible, especially for training
activities and support for the Task Force on Budget and Financial Management.



ANNEX IV
- 47 -                           Page 2 of 2
(a)    Financial Management and Budget:  12 man-months of consulting
services for the Task Force on Budget and Financial Management, and for the
examination of important financial management issues and constraints.
Consultants would have experience in management and financial management,
including accounting and budgeting, as appropriate to the studies to be
carried out. Three man-years of resident technical assistance would be
provided by a budget and finance advisor, located within the TAP.
(b)    Management Issues:  10 man-months of consultancy services would be
provided to review information systems, analyze personnel policies, and study
other key management problems in the MOA and MLD.
(c)    Microprocessors:  5 man-months for a microprocessor expert familiar
with agricultural economics to establish and supervise the microprocessor
program in MOA and MLD. A resident microprocessor advisor/trainer would
provide training and assist the ministry in introducing microprocessors for
selected activities; 3 man-years of technical assistance has been provided.
It is expected that the advisor would have a strong background in both
microprocessors and agricultural economics.
(d)    Training:  15 man-months of consulting services have been provided
to organize and conduct:  (1) three annual courses on financial management
for the PF & EO's; (ii) three annual courses for senior level financial
officers, accountants and field office financial staff on financial
management and accounting; and (iii) three annual courses for headquarters
and field administrative and technical staff on management skills.
Consultants would have appropriate background in their specialty, e.g.
financial management, accounting, or management, and also be experienced in
conducting training courses.
(e)    Technical Assistance Pool:  Through contributing to the multi-donor
funded Technical Assistance Pool, the project would provide 10% of total
funding for 47 man-years of advisory services for the Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock Development and Economic Planning, in the areas of
management; agricultural strategy and planning; commodity and price analysis;
and project preparation.



I



U                                                                                                             )     4S;  ))     A   N.    : ;:; =  : :}  : )7XT
:;~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ wztr  XN   l :=,Sm=5   ;t   :itt    E N  Y A     0    =X0   
-                    A    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    
'U G NDA                                                                             '
/7/                     K3>                   K   KEX    ETH'OPIAS ;   ;;;-                                tT
; i   i: f '   LA   E lfe DElms o i 79 -.  }/      R S                          /;    X i i X~~~~~~~~Ef    Lj 
:t  i i i    4gW          S  '                        /           r At RAl
FAJgsoSA f  AlM  j   /to         0               -               NU,                  / F A N
i1 1doret t /=>) 1> x1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---d -1 b./ _, ,dd"rr> 
mi~~~~7                                                                   / ueebKM9 0Ie;n  4,b-4>o<4  mm   
~~~~RTE R                                                                                          c  = 6M  4v90k /  ___  
x<S<5><e5                                                                                       / H~-s        c
WP! RDEA:::f90                                          '\   ox0,';1~~~~~~~~~~
$1 t                                                                                         SOMA wVttf   /   i   ir P \ \,  F__
/zc's-~~~R  AMEtr=E v   0i:i|_R                     Jif0ij\S               - 7.<S
-00      ti         t;i           fx         /tAgo -fR-                                    *   ASTRRItmonl crcrisRR
A              ASAA  A                                                           A;t  c      = ,,I f ii:X ERRR  i ;i;i|S _  :f    RARFORR



