DOCU   TS    CREDIT MUMBER 1277 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   q, 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1277 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1982,
between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "MLD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development;
(c) "MEPD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development;
(d) "KREMU" means the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring
Unit, a unit within the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources;
(e) "National Cereals and Produce Board" and "NCPB" mean
the body corporate to be established de jure by the Borrower and
carrying out the functions formerly carried out by the Maize and
Produce Board and the Wheat Board;
(f) "Project Year" means the period from July 1st through
June 30th next following, except that the first Project Year
means the period from the date of this Agreement through June 30,
1983;


﻿-2-
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
i.e. the period from July 1st through June 30th next following;
(h) "Technical Assistance Pool" means the pool of consul-
tants and experts constituted and administered by the Harvard
Institute for International Development to provide specialized
services to departments and agencies of the Borrower;
(i)  "Task   Force  on   Budget  and   Financial  Management
Processes" means the inter-ministerial task force chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MOA or MLD or their designated respective
representatives which studies short and long term issues of
resource allocation in the agricultural sector and the financial
and budgeting systems relating thereto; and
(j)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated March 31, 1982 and May 17,
1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-3-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 1, 1985 or
such  later date as    the Association    shall  establish.    The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.06 The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending March 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-4-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in confc.mity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts in accordtace with the provisions of Schedule 4 to thVis
Agreement; their selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants and experts in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants and experts
promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the documents
prepared by them for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, in such number as the Association shall reasonably
request; without limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association or cause it to
be furnished with (i) copies of all reports, financial statements
and accounts of the Technical Assistance Pool, and (ii) copies of
all reports and written assessments prepared by the management
systems staff in MOA and MLD under Part D of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views
with the Association on the conclusions and recommendations


﻿-5-
contained in the documents referred to in the preceding
paragraph.
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the experts or consultants
emp.Loyed under the Project, or grant any material extension of
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof,
or agree to any substitution of personnel of such experts or
consultants without prior consultation with, and concurrence of,
the Association.
(f) Without any limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure
the availability of (A) qualified professional staff for
on-the-job training by consultants and experts employed under
Parts C, D, E, and G of the Project and (B) qualified staff for
on-the-job training by consultants and experts employed under
Part F of the Project; and (ii) provide adequate local support
personnel and services (including office facilities) to the
consultants and experts employed under the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, and contract documents for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities


﻿-6-
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the ben%efits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of euch proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope a   in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that:
(i) the study referred to in Part A.1 of the Project
is completed by January 31, 1983;
(ii) terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
for the review referred to in Part B.1 of the
Project are furnished to the Association not later
than September 1, 1982 and that said review is
completed by December 31, 1982; and
(iii) the preparation of a project for the subdivision
of group farms as referred to in Part B.2 of the
Project is completed by March 31, 1983.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to provide overall guidance and
to ensure effective coordination among the departments and


﻿-7-
agencies of the Borrower participating in the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the representatives hereinafter
specified of such departments and agencies to meet periodically
as  a   committee  (hereinafter   called  the   Project   Steering
Committee). The Project Steering Committee shall be composed of
the Permanent Secretaries of MOA and MLD (Co-chairmen), the
Directors of Agriculture and Livestock Development, the heads of
the Development Planning Divisions of the MOA and MLD, the
Principal Finance and Establishment Officers of MOA and MLD, the
KREMU project manager, a representative of the Directorate of
Personnel, and, as appropriate, other senior staff of the
departments and agencies participating in the execution of the
Project.
(b) For the purpose of ensuring day-to-day coordination of
Project activities, the Borrower shall designate, and maintain in
such position at least until the Closing Date, a Project Coord-
inator whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not procure more than three
microprocessors under Part F of the Project during the first Pro-
ject Year.   At the end of the first Project Year, MOA, MLD and
the Association shall jointly carry out an evaluation of the
microprocessor program, with particular reference to levels of
use, adaptability of the equipment to data management needs,
training requirements and accomplishments, relationship of the
program with overall information systems, and projected needs in
MOA and MLD.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that appropriate arrangements satisfactory to the
Association are made for the provision of technical assistance to
KREMU.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) hereof for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case rot later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures, records and documentation referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn on the basis of certificates of expenditures
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing such accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the agreement
approved by the Association pursuant to paragraph 4 (iii) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been suspended, termi-
nated or cancelled by any party thereto, or shall have been
amended in any material respect, without the prior approval of
the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the


﻿-9-
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has designated a
Project Coordinator in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.06 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date   0                         is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceee3 of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, equip-            900,000             100% of for-
ment, materials                                eign expendi-
and supplies for                               tures and
Part C of the                                  80% of local
Project                                        expenditures
(2) Microprocessors              60,000             100% of for-
for Part F of                                  eign expendi-
the Project                                   tures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants' and
experts' services
for
(a) Pa7ts A, B, D,       1,350,000             100% of for-
and F of the                             eign expendi-
Project                                   tures and 80%
of local ex-
penditures
(b) Part E of the        1,130,000            100% of for-
Project                                  eign expendi-
tures and 65%
of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(c) Part H of the          270,000             100% of for-
Project                                   eign expendi-
tures and 80%
of local ex-
penditures
(4) Training, con-               700,000            100%
ferences and
study tours
(5) Refunding of                 310,000            Amount due
Project Pre-
paration Advance
(6) Unallocated                  680,000
Total                     5,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goodb or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to


﻿- 13 -
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures:
(i) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after April 15, 1982;
(ii) on account of Category (1) until the Association
shall have approved the arrangements for technical
assistance referred to in Section 3.08 of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(iii) on account of Part E of the Project until the
Borrower has entered into an agreement satisfac-
tory to the Association with the Harvard Institute
for International Development for the continued
administration of the Technical Assistance Pool;
and
(iv) on account of microprocessors for Part F of the
Project during the second Project Year and there-
after until the Association shall have agreed on
the expansion of the program on the basis of the
evaluation referred to in Section 3.07 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such


﻿- 14 -
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to support the Borrower's
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a
structural adjustment of the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Grain Marketing and Pricing
1.   Carrying out of a study to determine the appropriate
market structure for maize, taking into account the need to
provide adequate incentives to producers to ensure adequate
growth of domestic production, the need for efficient marketing,
transportation, storage and distribution of the crop and the
need for consumer prices that reflect economic costs of
production and distribution, and including (i) an investigation
of the optimal division of functions between the public sector,
the cooperatives and the private sector, (ii) recommendations for
an appropriate food security plan, and (iii) recommendations for
a program of marketing development, including information,
services and infrastructure.
2.   Formulation, on the basis of the information and recom-
mendations contained in the study referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Part A, of such action programs as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association.
3.   Improvement of the collection process and quality of
statistics on grain production, consumption, prices and market-
ing.
Part B:   Preparation of a Project for Subdivision of Group-Owned
Farms
1.   Review of the current status of subdivision of group-
owned farms and examination of the issues and constraints
relating thereto.
2.   Formulation of a program and preparation of a project
to ease the constraints identified under the review referred to
in paragraph 1 of this Part B, to accelerate the subdivision


﻿- 16 -
process and to provide needed agricultural services to areas
affected.
Part C:   Upgrading KREMU's Technical Capacity
Upgrading KREMLJ's processing capacity to enable it to
increase its data output and to provide background information in
the areas of land use and natural resources.
Part D:   Management Improvements at MOA and MLD
1.   Improvement of financial management (including budget-
ing) at MOA and MLD through (i) continuation of the work of the
Task Force on Budget and Financial Management Processes, and (ii)
the preparation of background papers on specific issues of
financial management.
2.   Improvement of general management of M0A      and MLD
through  (i) analysis   of  specific  problem  areas, and   (ii)
implementation of improvements recommended on the basis of such
analysis.
Part E:   Continuation of the Work of the Technical Assistance
Pool
Continuation of the work of the Technical Assistance Pool
for the benefit of MOA, MLD, and MEPD in the areas of general and
financial management, project preparation, commodity analysis and
agricultural strategy recommendation.
Part F:   Expansion of the Microprocessors Program at MOA and MLD
Integration of additional microprocessors into the opera-
tions of MOA and MLD.
Part G:   Training
Training, both in Kenya and abroad, of staff of MOA and MLD
in accounting, financial management, general management, use of
microprocessors and such other disciplines as may be appropriate
in connection with the activities under Parts A through F of the
Project.


﻿- 17 -
Part H:   Miscellaneous Studies
Such other studies as may be required for the purpose of the
Project and as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Computer equipment for Part C of the Project shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For equipment to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary in-
formation to. update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of equipment in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for     ,he procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bic:der shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 20 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, 11
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) immediately below,
contracts for vehicles, equipment (other than the computer
equipment referred to under Part A of this Schedule), materials
and supplies shall be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association.
(b) Contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials and
supplies estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
each may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to under Part A of
this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the


﻿- 21. -
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the 3orrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance
1.   Part A of the Project
Approximately 98 man-months of services of specialists in
economics, agricultural economics, grain marketing, storage,
management, accounting, statistics and food planning.
2.   Part B of the Project
Approximately 40 man-months of services of specialists in
economics, agricultural economics, sociology, law, surveying,
marketing, roads engineering, and agricultural project pre-
paration and design.
3.   Part D of the Project
Approximately 42 man-months of services of specialists in
financial management and budgeting, general management and
training.
4.   Part E of the Project
Approximately 8 man-years of services of specialists in
management,   financial  management,  tgricultural   strategy  and
planning, commodity and price analysis, and project preparation.
5.   Part F of the Project
Approximately 5 man-months of a microprocessor specialist
familiar with agricultural economics to establish and supervise
the microprocessor program in MOA and MLD, and approximately 3
man-years of services of a iicroprocs#s'sor adviser and trainer.
6.   Part G of the Project
Approximately 15 man-months of services of specialists in
training in the areas of financial management, accounting, and
general management.


﻿- 23 -
7.   Part H of the Project
Approximately 50 man-months of technical assistance as may
be required for Part H of the Project and as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


