D.cuu..t or
The Worid Bank
FOR OMCXAL USE ONLY
LAJ. Zf.
Rqput Nik P-3634-IN
sWo  AND m     _
OFn    M
PRKSWM)=  OF THE
INEIATItAL El=~ FOR IECOSTRUXIG AmNDZED
EnFOTRV DINN=ORS
N A
PRaPOSED LOAN
In AN AnM EQUzMLUT TO US$79.2 IIMLION
TO TEN
i mE=C  OF INDONSTiA
OR A
NUCLRIJS ESTATE AN    L      SUGAR
August 1, 1983
dr ., m dgEh.l .s     ay ea_ db_Wbe _immi thuat Wedi 8k _Amkdimi.



CUIRECY EQVALETS
Currency unit   - Iudonesan Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         - .p 970
Np 100          - US$0.103
R.p I milnion   - US$1,030.93
FISCAL EM
Government of Indonesia: April - March 31
PTP MV-nV:               January 1-Deceuer 31
hBUEVJIATIONS
BAPPENAS   - National Development Planning Board
BI         - Bank Indauesia
BP3G       - Pasuruan Sugar Research Institute
BRI        - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BULOG      - Badan Urusan Logistik (National Food Stock Authority)
DGE        - Directorate General of Estates
GOI        - The Government of Indonesia
MOA         - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
NES        - Nucleus Estate and Suallholder
PNP         - Perusabsaa Negara Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
PTP        - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
with l1iuied liability
REPELITA   - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 197479, Repelita III, 1979-84)
SOE        - Statements of Expenditure
Team KhChsus - Special Team for ExternallyfInternally Financed Projects
(ithbin the Directorate General of Estates)
TRI        - Sugarcane Intensification Program



INDONESIA                FOR OmCuL USE ONLY
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SRALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    A state-owned enterprise, PTP XXIV-XXV, and about 5,000
smallholders.
Aœount:            $79.2 million equivalent (including capitalized front-
end fee).
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years,-including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable inXerest rate.
Relending:         Beginning from the date cf the signing of Smallholder Credit
Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and the
smallholders, loans to smallholders for sugarcane
development would be at an interest rate of 12% per annum
for 14 years, including a grace period of 4 years. Loans to
PTP XXIV-XXV for estate development would be at an interest
rate of 13.5% per annum for 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The ,roposed project would assist GOI-s nucleus estates and
smallholders development program to establish 12,400 ha of
sugarcane in South Kalimantan, with public sector estate PTP
XXIV-XXV as implementing agency, and produce about 50,000
tons of sugar per annum for domestic consumption. In
addition, 3,000 ha would be cleared for smallholder houses,
gardens and foodcrops. It would immediately benefit some
5,000 smallholder families and provide full time employment
for 1,100 v'orkers in  he estate.  "Fome 2,000 families,
working in sector linked to the r:oject, would also benefit
indirectly. The project would contribute to reducing sugar
imports by about 7Z; provide the basis for improving
technical and managerial approaches te rainfed sugarcane
*                              production which would influence GOI's overall sugar devel-
opment program; and have a significant impact on the devel-
opment of an area with limited agricultural alternatives.
It would provide funds for start-up activities of future
nucleus estates and smallholders projects based on annual
crops and for studies in the sugar sector and contribute to
the overall manpower and training program for new sugar
estates. The project-s technical risks as a first experi-
ence in PTP sugarcane development in the Other Islands have
been minimized through consultancy services and training of
implementing staff, as well as by research activities.
Implementation would be geared to avoid the financial risk
of a discrepancy in timing between sugarcane production and
milling operations.
This document has a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients only in the performance 1
of their official duties. Its coptents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:Il                                        Local  Foreign  Total
--C  Million)--
Nucleus estate and processing
facilities development             29.3    47.8    77.1
Smallholder development                3.1     2.1      5.2
Regional infrastructure and
services                            4.4      7.6    12.0
Program support                        2.0    10.0    12.0
Base Cost                          38.8    67.5   106.3
Physical contingencies                 2.9     6.6      9.5
Price contingencies                   8.0      6.4    14.4
Total Project Cost                 49.7    80.5   130.2
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -     0.2      0.2
Total financing required             49.7    80.7   130.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                     -    79.2    79.2
GOI                                   49.7     1.5    51.2
total                            49.7    80.7   130.4
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY          1984      1985     1986      1987    1988
-     -   -   C$ million) -
Annual          27.1      30.3     15.8       4.3      1.7
Cumulative      27.1      57.4     73.2      77.5    79.2
Rate of Return:   16Z
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4405-IN-D dated June 27, 1983.
/1 Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $79.2 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder (NES) Sugar Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Proceeds of the loan would be onlent to PTP XXIV-XXV, a Government-owned
estate enterprise, partly as long-term loans (50%) and partly as equity
(50%).  The loans would be at the standard rates for public sector estate
companies of 13.5Z per annum for 20 years including a grace period of five
years. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government of
Indonesia (GOI).
PART I - TME. ECONOMY /I
2.        A basic economic report.  Indonesia;  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects' (No. 2093-IND dated Februarv 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled Indonesia: Policies for Growth with Lower Oil Prices'
(No. 4279-IND dated May 12, 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for
the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world-s fifth most populous nation. The country has a
highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatera
and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has
areas with some of the highest rural population densities in the world.
About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Other
Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a.
The 1982 estimate of GNP per capita is $580, which places Indonesia amongst
middle income countries.12
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the Third Agricul-
tural Training Project (No. P-3628-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-230, dated July 7, 1983, and apFroved by the Executive Directors
on July 26, 1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank-s system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures.
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment.  However, for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
$0.6 billion in 1973174 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, when the current account
enjoyed a surplus of $2.1 billion. Oil receipts also provide about 70Z of
Central Goverrment receipts and have helped finance the sustained increase in
demand via the budget. The pattern of expenditures has also helped foster
diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for agriculture,
through investment in infrastructure, support services and effective use of
subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an agricultural
growth rate of almost 4% per annum over the past decade, and movement towards
self-sufficiency in rice. During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing has also enjoyed
a high growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but this has been
predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the macroeconomic resource position has changed dramati-
cally. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume and
price of oil exports have led to a turnaround in the current account of about
$10 billior. in two years, with a deficit of almost $7 billion in 1982/83,
equivalent to about 8% of GNP, a level that cannot be sustained for more than
a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effectively to the
worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of 1983, introduced a
comprehensive package of policy measures to reduce the current account
deficit. First, in January 1983, an austere 1983/84 budget was introduced,
that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies on oil, fertilizer and food,
and a squeeze on current expenditures. Second, on March 30, 1983, the Rupiah
was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 tc Rp 970 to the US dollar, without changing
the full convertibility of the currency. This was, in part, in response to
the substantial private sector capital outflow over the previous months.
Third, in May, a major rephasing of public investment was announced, in
particular of large-scale import-intensive projects in the industrial, elec-
tric power and transport sectors. These measures should ensure the effective
management of the foreign exchange position in the short run, and the reduc-
tion of the current account deficits to sustainable levels over the next two
to three years. As a consequence of the changed resource position, growth was
low in 1982 and will continue to be low in 1983. In order to minimize the
impact on domestic incomes and employment, the Government is reallocating any
rupiah savings from the rephased profits to public expenditure activities with
a high domestic content.



-3-
Policy for Mledium-Term Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth rates
be restored in the medium term: a rate of growth of the order of 6Z per annum
for the non-oil economy is probably necessary to have a significant impact
on employment creation and poverty alleviation in the 1980s. This will
require the diversification of the economy away from its present dependence on
oil, for both foreign exchange earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government has already taken major policy inititatives to
mobilize domestic resources. This involved both the increased mobilization of
e         private savings, especially of the household sector, through the financial
system, and the diversification of sources of public finance away from oil
exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced a major finan-
cial reform on June 1, 1983, 'hat includes the significant deregulation of
deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in subsidized refinancing
facilities from the central bank and the removal of all credit ceilings. In
addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this is an important step in the
deregulation of economic activity that should also lead to increased effici-
ency of resource use. With respect to public finance, the quantitatively
most important measures in the recent past have been the large increases in
domestic fuel prices to reduce the subsidy on consumption; subsidies on food
and fertilizer prices have also been reduced, and the Government is in the
process of introducing a major tax reform.
8.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
nonroil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
quence, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be alloca-
ted to exports if growth is to be maintained, especially in the relatively
labor-intensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import
replacement. This will require measures to improve the overall efficiency
of the sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory
framework, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and
specific export promotion policies.  The Government has already introddced a
range of export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import
substitution bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for
exporters, raise product quality and improve marketing capacity.
9.        Agricu]ture will also continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonroil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.



-4 -
This achievement is largely a result of the rehabilitation and expansion of
irrigation systems, and the dissemination of new agricultural technology,
particularly with respect to the timely delivery of seeds and fertilizers.
Future investment in physical infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads,
combined with a favorable market environment and good support services will be
the main determinants of further expansion in food production. In the past
tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the
trees is now very old, but the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has a highly
ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating substantial
investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution and
marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
1..       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the avail-
able evilence, from household expenditures surveys, i-:dicates a fairly wide
distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so. Per
capita consumption of the bottom 40X in the expenditure distribution is esti-
mated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These gains
are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the
infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./1
These improvements should not, however, mask the continued existence of
widespread poverty. Almost 40% of the population are estimated to have been
in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem continues to be in
rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly rising,
fraction of the population, and where, for most of the 1970s, there is little
evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, in the 1979-81
period, bumper rice bnrvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes on parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined in the face of the international recession.
Following the devaluation this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes
should rise, backed by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java
could be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in
1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employ-
ment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 5 -
rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikely that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the future. If an adequate growth in labor demand
is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies specifically
oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring overall growth.
In the short-run, the maintenance of employment-intensive public works
activities can make a significant contribution.
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primcry
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
Tn the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be
maintained.  Currently, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban popula-
tion have access to safe water /1 compared with Government targets of 60Z
and 7g., respectively, for 19907.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment policies
outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital inflows.
Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of significant
net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to be smoothly
implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and the de'"elopment
process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past financial asset
accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves declined by
$3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an additional
$0.9 billion. While the reserve cover is still adequate, the scope for
additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of future deficits
will have to come from mediumr and long-term public borrowing. About $5 bil-
lion per annum of new commitments will be required over the next three years
to finance the projected deficits during the adjustment period. It is
reasonable to expect that at least 40I will come from official development
assistaLce (ODA) - at the June meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia the donors pledged over $2.2 billion for 1983184 - with some
increase in borrowings from the financial markets and continued use of
official and private export credits.
/I Government estimates for 1981.



- 6 -
14.       Total public debt outstanding at end-1982 was $18.3 billion, with
an additional $12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 54% of the total and no short-term debt,
the average maturiLy of new commitments was 15 years in 1982. The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of exports, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at about
26% in the mid-1980s. Th8s is largely a consequence of the decline in antici-
pated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt burden is
high by Indonesia-s past standards, b:lit remains within the limits of prudent
debt management. Backed by the effective program of domestic adjustment,
Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external finance
without undue difficulty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATTONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA cred.ts total-
ling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million. IFC
investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982 was
13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%
respectively in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In add'tion, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable inco- distribution and poverty alleviation.  This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third Agricul-
tural Training Project (No. P-3628-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-230, dated July 7, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors
on July 26, 1983.



- 7 -
17.       because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part 1, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in thie short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the envirornent for private invest-
ment and ts mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
mant can continue. The Balik's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadeniny of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. The
only sirniticaut shift in the composition of letnding involves a rapid expanr
sion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the severe shortage
of skilled manpower. ln the industrial sector, inrdepth sector work is
focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will build on
Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource-intensive industries.
This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facili-
tate sectoral reform.  in energy, sector work and continued lending is
c-oncentrating on policies to diversify lndonesia-s energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planninv. Irrigation and tree crops will
continue to absorb a substantial porLion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated.
Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services, in population,
health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly
empnasize institutional support and the development of innovr.tive low-cost
solutions.
Id.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburbosent
ratio /1 frum a low of IJX in FYBU, compared to a Bank-wide average of 21.31%,
in Thailand of 21.2k and in Nigeria of 17.31% i. that year, to 18% in FY64.
The poor FYsu ratio was in large part merely a reault of the rapid increase in
comaitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/lUA coumitments to
Indonesia increased by lZZZ compared to a Baok& wide increase of 83%. ilowever,
it also reflected implementatiou difficulties arising out of Gui-s budgetary,
procurement and payment procedures, intcluding issuance of tender documents and
opening of letters of credit. The severe slhmrtage of managerial and technical
manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken
by Gui and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions
have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The CUl and the Bank have
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-8 -
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition,
procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI it, a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting industry have been identified as one oE the major causes
of implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these
efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $582.8 million in FY83. It is
nevertheless important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the second lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Second Nonformal
Education, the Second Provincial Irrigation, and the Second Swamp Reclamation
Projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND IRRIGATION
21.       Objectives for the Agriculture Sector.  The agriculture sector
is of overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly
80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agricu' 'ire is the major
source of income for about two-thirds of rural househo±ds and onc-tenth of
urban households. GOI-s major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sectors are to: (a) create produL-ive employment to raise the incomes of
the rural poor; (b) increase domestiL food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia-s land, water
and other natural resources. In line with these objectives, which the Bank
supports, the GOI-s efforts to develop the agricultural sector are directed
to various areas including, inter alia, food and, tree crops, area
development and transmigration.



-    -
22.       Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources,
GOI has concentrated on increasing the p-oduction of rice, th. preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians; rice productioa increased
rapidly (4.52 p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehab-
ilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the GOI rice intensi-
fication schemes. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. during the
years 1974-77, in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to
restrictions on private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of
untimely rainfall, and i:vprecedented attacks by pests and diseases. Since
then, iawever, rice production has increased substantially, reaching an
estim-ted total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons. Output of secondary fooderops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) grew at an average of
1.6Z p.a. over the past decade.  Over the decade, the gains in food crop
output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand, stimu-
lated by rising incomes. By the late 1970s, Indonesia became the world-s
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in '977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4 million tons
in 1978. However, if the significant increases in rice production recorded
during 1980 and 1981 can be maintained, Indonesia will greatly reduce its
dependence on the world rice market and approach food self-sufficiency. In
this connection rice imports in 1982 fell *o only 0.6 million tons.
23.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation alreidy
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion.
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated development projects
to address this problem.
24.       Transmigration.  The primary program fcr new area development and
for resettlement of farmers from the overcrowded islands of Java, Bali and
Lombok is transmigration. Between .905 and 1978 about one million people
were moved under this program. Ta Rtpelita III the program was reorganized
and accelerated and between 197d-1983, 1,250,000 additional people were
moved. Most projects are based on rairfed agriculture, and while families
are not wealthy, generally subsistence needs are met and employment
opportunities are increased. The Bank has provided financial assistance for
four transmigration projects to date, primarily to improve the quality of
the transmigration program. The first, a pilot project in South Sumatra,
has just been concluded and the second, a project to settle 30,000 families
in Sumatra, began in 1979. Recently, the Bank has provided financial
assistance for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program, for
program development, and for the resettlerent of 6,000 families in East
Kalimantan.



- lu -
&..       Tree Crops Sector.  Tree crops occupy about 45% (6.1 million ha)
of total cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for b5Z of this), and
beuerate about 43/. of total aouoil export revenue. Siaaliholders cultivate
bU4 of tne ruDoer and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper,
wnereas tea and oil palm are grown primarily on estates. indonesia is the
worlacs second largest producer of natural rubber after rialaysia, with a
lo1 production of about 1 millioa tons and exports of U.95 million tons.
Kuober comprised bX of Lndonesia&s total agricultural GUP, 7- of export
earnings and 16% of non-oil exports in 1961, and provides full-time employ-
ment for two million people and part-time employment for an additional 6-8
million.  Yroducing 71U,UUO tons of palm oil and 1J,00.2 toas of palm
kernels in 19o1, Indonesia is the world-s second largest palm oil producer
after Malaysia. Palm oil is Indonesia's.fourth largest agricultural export
commodity after timber, rubber and coffee, and comprises 2% of total agri-
culturaL GDP and 7X of all nonoil export earnings. Production increase of
most smallholder crops has ranged from Z-41 p.a. during the last decade.
With the long immaturity period of tree crops, slow production growth is a
symptom of past low prices and neglect, inadequate research and extension,
and failure to replaat with higher-yielding varieties, esijeciaLly by siall-
holders.  only oil palm and coffee have shown sustained large increase in
area (and production), about 9k and b% p.a. respectively, due to investment
prograus by 4.overoment and private estates.  ziecognizing the importance of
tree crops development in increasing smallholder incomes and non-oil exports,
and in keeping pace with domestic deuand for fats and edible oil, anm utili-
zation of unused land resources, Gui embarked on an accelerated tree crop
development plan with the initiation of iepelita 1LU.  The plan targeted 2.4
willion ha ot new planting/replanring and rehabilitation mainly of coconuts,
rubber and oil palm.  To impleuent this plan, GUi established a number of
programs. une new approach, which is being supported by the Bank-assisted
iNucleus estate ana smallholder (aLS) projecrc-, is for Governaent-owned
estate enterprises (?TPs/FaPs) to develop land for itself and smaliholders,
using the latter as euployees for the initial years.  The Bank has helpea
finance seven 1LtS Projects for the development of about 250,OUU ha, at a
total cost of %1.4 billion, of which thc Bankis contribution is $b5u
million.
The Sugar Subsector
.4b.      before Worla War 11, lndoi !sia was the world s largest exporter of
sunar, mainly from Java.  Annual output was 3 million tons and exports more
than Z million tons until the lepression of the 193us. At the end of
World War ii, many pre-war factories were irreparable and sugar lands were
either badly neglected or given over to otner food crops. Kenabilitation
was slow and since 196b consumption has exceeaed domestic production.
Z7.       ieco&nizing Indonesia-s comparative advantage in sugar production,
GUO. is now carrying out a major pro6ram of factory construction and rehab-
ilitation.  uuring the 197us, seven new factories were built, three outsiae
Java. Iwo of the rehabilitated factories ana one new one were funded by the
iDA-supported Sugar Project (Gredit 4U5-lhD).  Cane areas doubled over the



- 11 -
decade and sugar production passed 1 million tons in 1974 and reached 1.3
million tons in 192. Imports nevertheless continued, sharply increasing in
1977 and 1978 and still remaining at a high level, exceeding 700,000 tons in
1982.
28.       In 1981, apart from intensifying rehabilitation, GOI announced
plans to construct 18 new factories, with =elated sugarcane plantation
development, between 1984 and 1986. Most would have been outside Java. In
late 1982 resource constraints caused this ambitious program to be reduced.
GOI now formally plans to go ahead with only nine or ten factories, with the
rest delayed, cancelled or turned into joint ventures.
29.       Although at present sugarcane is being partly produced by
Government-owned estates, GOI intends to withdraw progressively from direct
cane production by encouraging farmers to take over sugarcane areas now
supplying GOI factories, and by developing new sugarcane areas for smAll-
holders. Most sugarcane in Java is now grown by smallholders, with GOI
support from the sugarcane intensification program (TRI) which provides
smallholders with a credit and inputs package.
Bank Group Activities in the Sugar Subsector
30.       In January 1971, at GOI-s request, the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) commissioned the Indonesian Sugar Study (ISS), with the
Bank as Executing Agency. The objective was to formulate a ten-year program
to meet domestic sugar consumption and prepare a project for international
financing. ISS identified possible new locations mainly in the Other
Islands for sugar development. IDA subsequently helped finance one project
recommended by ISS for the rehabilitation of sugar on Java (Credit 405-I2!),
nov completed) and the Asian Development Bank supported another. The
completion report for the Bank Group-assisted project indicated the
appropriateness of examining the relativ cost effectiveness of developing
the sugar industry in the Other islands as compared with rehabilitation in
Java. The very limited exper'ence in sugar production outside of Java makes
this comparison difficult, particularly if it does not consider the regional
development aspects of these projects. The proposed project in South
Kalimantan would provide the basis for such comparison with results which
would be applicable to the future sugar program. In addition, it would
assist the Government in developing technical and managerial approaches for
these projects which are, in many respects, widely different from those
traditionally used in Java. Under NES V and VI (Loans 2007-IND and
2126-IND) the Bank is assisting the Government in expanding sugarcane
development outside of Java by providing advisory services to the recently
established Secretariat to the policy-making interministerial Sugar Council.
With the assistance of such advisory conaultants the Sugar Council
Secretariat recently completed an overall sugar development training
program, and is currently preparing an overall sugar research program. Part
of the former program is included in this project.



J1.        Lhe proposed project is part of tle Government's program to
conscruct nine or ten new tactories and the firs! to incorporate the idES
cor.cept, already successtully employed to develop tree crops.  The Bank is
dssociated wiLlh seveu such ZNrS projects.  Until lately, iLS project
impleuentdtiou has been satisiactory.  Lkowever, the ambitious plantivi-
tdrgets riven to Piks under the non-&LS programs have started straining the
PYFs  implemLeutation capacity, as reflected in poor quality of some
plaatinbs and la&bing smallholder development.  PrP XXIV-XXV, however, has
aot yet been involved in Ar.S projects and has not encountered the problems
menitioned above. tioreover, the low comwodity prices have affected the
liquidity of the estates as well as GWI funding of these projects. A major
locus of dialogue becween Gui and the Bank are measures to address these
problems. Actions under the Special Assistance Program (SAP) designed to
assist LuL to continue implexaeltation of £'ES projects during the present
period or resource constraints are being considered. Furthermore, an
in-deptn review of Wi-s tree crops projects (particularly those involving
PdPs) has just been initiated to reach agreement on a long-term planting
program consisLent with PTPs_ tinances, implementation capacity and
availaDility of bus funds.
P,t&f IV - T±Lr. PRIJJiCT
3z.      This would be the first project to adopt the i;rS approach in the
sugar subsector.  ihus, ic can addrtes and influence the implementation of
otner surar projects in tthe uther Islands. ihe project would represent an
expansion of the Baniks support for the Ur.S concept into a new crop which
constitutes one of che few known developmental alternatives in an area where
considerable infrastructure investments and transmigration efforts have
already been made.  The project :as aDnraised in September/October 196X with
finaL adjustments incorporatea in reDruary 19t3; Staff Appraisal Report zo.
44U>-LNV will be distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex iii.  i'egotiations were held in Washington in June 1983,
and the ladonesian delegation was led by Dr. Rachmat Soebiapradja, Director
General of LsLates.
Ubjectives and General Vescription
ij.       The objectives of the project are:  to reduce the sugar imports
and inalad transport costs, and to develop an area in the Uther. Islands with
limited a6ricultural alternatives. The project represents the most
thorou6hly stuuied coaponent in the overall sugar development program, with
five years or variety trials on the project site, extensive study of
physical and socioeconomic factors, two years of continuous advisory ser-
vices during preparation, atnd extensive start-up activities to select and
expand tne seedcane nursery and tne first sugarcane planting areas.  Using
kTV  "iV-XAV, an alricultural parastatal, tne project would establish



- 13 -
nucleus estate and smallholder sugarcane produccion and related infra-
structure and processing facilities. Over a period of five years (mid-1983
to mid-1988), some 12,400 ha of sugarcane would be established and process-
ing facilities would be provided at the nucleus estate, located in the
District of Pelaihari, Province of South Kalimantan. The proposed project
area is comprised of several large estate3, formerly in rubber or cattle
ranching, which have been returned to the provincial Government. Land
availability has been assured, no new agricultural activities will be
allowed within the project which may be prejudicial to the project (Section
3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement), and no resettling of existing smallhold-
ers is expected to be required. Production of plantation white type sugar
is expected to be about 50,000 tons per year. This represents about 7% of
present sugar imports; therefore, all sugar production resulting from the
proposed project would be for domestic consumption. The project components
are detailed below.
(a) Sugarcane Development
(i) development of 12,400 ha of sugarcane, of which 4,600 ha
would be nucleus estate, including seed cane nursery and
trial plots, and 7,800 ha for 5,000 smallholders, including
2,000 existing local farmers and 3,000 new settlers to be
established under NES procedures;
Cii) construction of a 4,000 tons of cane per day (TCD) capacity
sugar factory (expandable to 5,000 TCD) in the estate, to
produce about 50,000 tons per year of plantation white sugar
at full development;
(iii) provision of smallholder housing and water supply, food
gardens, village infrastructure and roads, and initial
subsistence allowances, estate housing, buildings, and
other infrastructure, machinery and equipment; and
(iv) support for part of the cost of improving and constructing
170 km of new regional access roads, bridges and culverts and
upgrading and establishment of community facilities and
services in the project area.
(b) Program Support and Technical Assistance. Provision of:
Mi) consultant services to strengthen PTP XXIV-XXV in the
implementation of the project and train, on-site, the
corresponding counterpart estate staff;
(ii) training for project-related staff and for staff in other
new sugar estates within the context of the overall sugar
development training program;



- 14 -
I.iii) applied research Lider the guidance oI the Pasuruan
Sugar Research Institute (BP3G) to improve variety
selection and agricultural practices in sugarcane
production; and
(iv)  funds for start-up activities for future NciS projects based
on annual crops, and for studies related to the sugar
su,bsector.
34.        Lfo ensure coordination between the training and research
activities unt.er the project and those of the overall sugar program in
lndonesia, an overall maupower and training program in support of new
sugar esrttes, including the proposed project, has been prepared by the
Sugar Louncil Secretariat and assurances were obtained during negotiations
that an overall sugar research program would be prepared and submitted to
tne bank by December 31, 19b3 (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement)
(para. iu).
Project Implementation
35.       As in previous NIS projects, the Directorate General of Estates
'WG") would, under the proposed project, have overall responsibility for
project execution and would, through Team Khusus (a special team established
by Iijk to assist and supervise projecc execution of externally/interually
fiaanced projects), coordinate implementation, and provide assistance to PTP
AuIV-AXV in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets, financial
administration, and technical, engineering and p-ocurement matters.
Jo.       Assisted by consultants, PTR XXLV-XXV would be responsible for
project work. During tue project period, PTP XXIV-XXV would recruit the
necessary additional staff and deploy them alongside the implementation
consultants so as to receive on-the-job training and enable the PTP to
assume lull responsibility for operating the nucleus estate and processing
facilities and to manage the smallholders' sugarcane areas for the first two
years of production. Teaporary consultants have been provided under start-
up activities and will be continued until the implementation consultants
under the project are in tthe field. The PTP-s First Director would be
Project manager and would appoint a site manager for the project area. The
Project hanager, assisted by Team Khusus, would prepare and submit annual
work programs and budrets by October 31 each year (Section 3.U4 of the
draft woan Agreement).
7.        PTP XXLV-XXV would have full authority to establish suallholdings,
infrastructure, field roads and processing facilities. WGE would conclude
witn the PTP a Smallholder Uevelopment Agreement which would specify all
works to be carried out for sugarcane development and processing, as well as
the PTP-s responsibilities for land clearirg for house and food crop areas,



- 15 -
the provision of initial subsistence funds, support services for foodcrops
and needed infrastructure and various other responsibilities for partici-
pating smallholders (Sectioa 4.U3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Sd.       The Provincial Government of South Kalimantan would provide
health, education, social and food crops extension services to the small-
holaers, including the construction of health and education facilities
through .Ul-s public works programs, aud woula also use the training and
research facilities recently constructed in Pelaihari to support the
proposn;i project (Section 3.14 of the draft woan Agreement).  In addition,
the Provincial boverument has already started a progran to strengthen
bridges on the main access road and would upgrade this road and construct
main roads linking it with villages in the project area.
Project Costs
B9.       Total estimated cost (based on mid-1983 prices) over five years of
project implementation, i.e. from planting of sugarcane in already cleared
land to establishing the last group of new settlers, is S13U.2 million, of
wnich *Ou.5 million (bZl) is the foreign exchange component. Project costs
exclude taxes and customs duties on capital expenditure, for which the pro-
ject agencies are exempt.. Physical contingencies are estimated at 14Z for
the tactory, buildings, supplies and materials, vehicles and machinery and
equipment; 157 for roads and technical assistance; and 2U% for other civil
works. The 'base costs- of land development have physical contingencies
already built in.  Local price contingencies are 2UZ (1983), 15% (19Y4), 11%
(19bi) and 7X (1986 and after). Foreign price contingencies are 8% (1983),
7.54 (1964), 7X (L96J) aad 6% (1966-88).  Consultant services (294
man-months) costs are based on recent contracts for similar services in
lndonesid; estimated average direct and reimbursable costs are $1U,45U/month
for foreign consultants and *2,6uU/month for local consultants.
Financing
4u.       The proposed Bank loan of %79.2 million (including EU.2 million
capitalized front-end fee), which is 61% of the project-s estimated total
cost, would finance lUUX of the foreign exchange cost (less the foreign
exchange costs of items reserved by Government for procurement in Indonesia,
which are ineligible for Bank financing). GU1 would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan and provide an additional Rp 49.7 billion
(>)1.x million) in various forms to the project implementing agencies.
41.       Funds Flow.  For nucleus estate development the annual work program
and budget woula be submitted by PTP XXIV-XXV to the Ministry of Agriculture
qLOA) ror its approval and detailed review Ly I)U  to ensure that costs and
physical targets are realistic. After approval by MUA, the Ministry of
Finance (MUF) would channel the funds to the PTP in quarterly tranches in
accordance with the akreed program. They would make these funds available to



- lb -
tne estace partly in the form of luan and partly as interest-free funds to be
subsequently converted into equity. For smallholder development, the annual
and quarterly work prograias would be reviewed by the i4ational l.evelopLaent
Planning board (BALPPhi:AS) in a similar manner.  Upon approval by BAPPEIAS, MUF
would chantel iLunds to the PIP in quarterlv disbursements in advance of
expeuditures. Shiallholder working capital credit (T&lC for sugarcane
productioni would be funded by Balik lndonesia (B1) and Bank Kakyat Indonesia
(d1l) under existing arrangemeuts.  Funds for education, access roads, health
and co-uunity developmet:t facilities would be provided to the Provincial
boveriwent turougn the i.l-s public works program.
42.       unlending Terms and Conditions.  Under the NLS program, GUI has
established an interest rate policy of lending or onlending funds to s-siall-
holders at 124 p.a., and to public sector estates at 13.5Z p.a. Although
inflation rates are projected at 2W. for 19dJ, tiey are expected to fall to 7Z
by i9oo, and thus the interest rates for the estates and the snallholders
would be positive in real terms over most of tne lite of the loans.
4i.       r%s in some i'ik projects, WUI would provide PTP iXLV-XXV fuads (its
own and the proceeds of the Balik loan) in tne form of equity (50X) and loans
(UW.) to ensure a sound financial structure and a financing plan consistent
with the project s casni flow. The loans would be for 20 years at 13.5% per
anaum with a tive-year grace period. Simple interest accrued during the grace
period would be capitalized at the end of the grace period (Para. 2, Schedule
5 ot the draft Loan Agreemenc).  To ensure the financial viability of the PTP,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that GUI would cause the PTP to
(a) maintain a debt:equity ratio not exceeding 50:50; (b) not undertake any
new development exceeding Kp 1.5 billion, except as agreed -nder the project,
without consulcation with the Bank; and (c) review its cash flow each year and
ensure that dividends are distributed by PTP XXIV-XXV only in the event that
such review deisonstrates tnat such dividends may be distributed without
itepairing the PFies ability to carry out its investment program and operations
with adequate cash balances (Section 4.Ud of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The costs of smallholder term credit items would be converted into
standardized credit amounts for each settler as his area is developed. These
amounts, as well as the working capital loans under the sugarcane intensifi-
cation program (Til), would be subject to credit agreements between each
smalinolder and Kill (section 3.U3(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). For
handling the smallholuer debt service payments, GUI will pay BH1 a fee from
tizte to tilie of up to 17 of tlle amount of loans outr.tanding.  Subloans for
development woula be for 14 years, with a four-year grace period. lnterest
would be 1L. per annum and simple interest accrued during the grace period
would De capitalized at the end of the grace period. The annual TRI working
capital loans would carry an annual interest rate of 12%. During
ne5otiations, assurances were obtained that BRl would subait to the Bank by
December 31, 19d4, a credit scheme under IlKl adjusted to the crop cycle for
su6arcane in the utt.er islands (Section 3.1Z of the draft Loan Agreement).
This scheme is already under preparation by BRI with assistance from 'feam
&husus.



- 17 -
4'.       Procuremeut.  Agricultural machinery and road construction equip-
ment (Po.9 uillion) would be procured through international competitive
Diddiug (Ctn) in accordance with bank guidelines.  To ensure that the pro-
cessing facilities (4.,i.u milliou) are ready on time to mill sugarcane
planted two seasons earlier, procurement of the factory would be on a
-turnkey" contract basis under international bidding limited to a short list
of LU recognized suppliers of complete factories. The list of suppliers was
approved by the bank and bids were opened on June 2, 19b3. Civil works
(v}Z.b million) and land development would be carried out mainly by force
account by the PTP or through local competitive bidding. uther exceptions
to LCI would include prudent snopping for agrochemicals and small agricul-
tural tools up to obUU,UUU. As in other agricultural projects in Indonesia,
urea and other fertilizers (muriate of potash, triple superphosphate and
ammonium sulphate) ($1.- million) would be purchased directly from P.T.
PUSKI (or its authorized distributors). P.T. PUSR1 is the country-s sole
supplier of urea whose price is considerably below world market levels. PT
PubKlUs buJlk procurement of other fertilizers, using procedures broadly
similar to !Cb, result in prices which are generally lower than those
resulting from procurement under ongoing Bank projects, mainly because of
tue large quantities iuvolved. Whenever possible, OLL would centrally
procure road construction equipment and agricultural machinery to minimize
tue number of contracts. Contracts for civil works under local competitive
bidding would be grouped, to the extent possible, into contracts exceeding
aDout iLp iU milijon, and contracts for works costing 5500,000 equivalent or
more would be suimitted to the Bank for review, prior to tendering and
award. Selection of the consultants ($3 milli)n) would be made in
accordance with Bank iuidelines on the use of consultants.
visbursements
4o.       The bank would disburse against:
(a)  luu. of the su6ar factory -turnkey  contract, net of any
identifiable taxes;
(b)  luUX of foreign expenditures for imported equipment for road
construction, cultivation, haulage and harvesting of sugarcane;
1£U% of the ex-factory cost (less any identifiable taxes) of
equipment manufactured locally, and 8UZ of the cost of imported
tarm equipment purchased locally through prudent shopping;
(c)  1Uu. ot foreign expenditures for imported laboratory and other
equipment for sugarcane research and 1uUg of the ex-factory cost
(less any identifiable taxes) of equipment manufactured locally;
(d)  lUuX of cost of agrochemicals;
(e)  lIuU  of the cost of all consultant services; start-up expenditures
for future ,.S projects and studies for the sugar subsector;



- 18 -
(f) 50Z of expenditures for civil works, including offices, ware-
houses, other buildings, reservoir and water supply, and roads
constructed by the nucleus estate; and
(g) 100% of foreign expenditures in support of the manpower devel-
opment and training program.
The Bank would not disburse against expenditures for sugarcane planting,
other than equipment and agrochemicals, for motorcycles, jeeps and other
vehicles, which would be subject to reserved procurement, or for smallholder
subsistence and foodcrop expenditures. The Covernment-s efforts to initiate
milling in 1985 and Lhe high proportion of the sugar factory and related
sugarcane development costs required to achieve this target result in an
accelerated disbursement of 34% of the loan in the first project year and
38% in the second. Statements of expenditure would be used for civil works
and for parts of the training and research programs carried out by force
account and for start-up activities in future NES projects. Documents
supporting these statements would be retained in Indonesia and made
available, as required, to Bank supervision missions. The Bank would
disburse retroactively in an amount not exceeding $5 million for
expenditures made after August 1, 1983 with respect to the sugar factory
component. The entering into financing arrangements between Bank Indonesia
or the Ministry of Finance and PTP XXIV-XXV (para. 43) and of a Smallholder
Development Agreement between the DGE and PTP XXI'V-XXV (para. 37) in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, would constitute conditions of
disbursement against individual project components (Schedule 1, para. 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
47.       PTP XXIV-XXV would follow standardized accounting procedures
agreed between the Bank and GOI for Bank-supported NES projects, keeping
separate accounts for all project investment costs and distinguishing
between PTP and smallholder investments. Present auditing of PTP accounts
by private reg'stered public accountants is satisfactory to the Bank. In
addition, a long form management report, as provided by private auditors,
would be produced. Other project accounts and related disbursements made
under Statements of Expenditure would also be audited by independent audi-
tors and summarized unaudited annual accounts for the PTP would be submitted
to the Bank by March 31 and the audit report by June 30 each year.
Agricultural Production, Marketing and Prices
48.       The project would establish 12,400 ha of sugarcane, including
4,000 ha of estate cane, 600 ha of seed garden and trial plots, and 7,800 ha
of smallholder farms. In addition, it would provide 3,000 ha of cleared
land for housegardens and foodcrops to the new settlers established under



- 19 -
the project. At full production, sugar output is expected to reach 50,000
tons in an estimated milling season of 150 days, based on average yields of
80 ton/ha. In addition, it would produce incremental foodcrops for the
3,000 new settlers under the project. Since marketing of sugar is done
exclusively through the GOI's Natioval Food Stock Authority, BULOG, payment
for sugarcane delivered to the factory would be determined by the estate in
accordance with established proportions of sugar produced. To ensure the
smallholders have a constant cash flow, during the two years when the
sugarcane area would be under estate management, the estate would provide
work for the smallholder, and also provide the needed training for the
farmers to manage their own sugarcane crop. Sugar prices are fixed by the
Government, although regional variations in retail price occur because of
distribution costs. At the present time-of depressed world market prices,
Indonesian domestic prices for sugar are significantly higher than import
parity prices. However, it is not Government policy to subsidize the sugar
industry. Rather, the policy is to match import parity prices over time.
Particularly since the bulk of imported sugar is purchased through forward
contracts, a policy based on the fluctuating spot market would be inappro-
priate. Before the March 1983 devaluation of the rupiah, the current
ex-factory price did in fact equal the long-term import parity price of
sugar. In projecting the price of sugar for financial analysis, it was
assumed that BULOG-s policy of pricing sugar to match the long-term import
parity price would continue.
Benefits, Cost Recovery, and Risks
49.       Apart from creating physical assets, the project would provide a
livelihood for 5,000 smallholder families and employment opportunities for
1,100 permanent estate worker families and for another 2,000 families working
in other sectors linked to the project. In addition, the project would help
reduce the annual sugar imports by 7%, develop an area with limited agricul-
tural options and establish a model for other projects in the national sugar
development program in the Other Islands. Transport, communications, health
and education would be improved and would increase the attraction of the area
as a place to live and work.
50.       The base cost of developing sugarcane for smallholders would be
about $9,000 per family. The investment cost per new job (base cost plus
physical contingencies) would be about $11,000 (less than half the cost of
job creation in medium to large-scale industry in Indonesia).  At full
development in Year 6, the project would produce about 50,000 tons of sugar
for domestic consumption and 23,000 tons of molasses, together worth about
$30 million.
51.       The expected economic rate of return (ERR) is 162 based on the
following major assumotions: (a) base prices for major tradeables are based
on border prices converted to rupiah at the official exchange rate of
Rp 970 - $1.00, using a standard conversion factor of 1.0. Other prices



- 20 -
have been adjusted to reflect anticipated changes in the relative prices of
tradeables and nontradeables subsequent to the devaluation of March 30,
1983; (b) shadow wage rate at 75X of market wages reflecting the labor
supply situation; (c) investment costs net of taxes and transfers and
excluding the cost of social services and infrastructure, which the
Government would have provided even without the project; and (d)
international sugar prices of S3;8/ton in 1983 constant terms. The
financial rate of return to the nucleus estate would be 13%.
52.       Sensitivity analyses incicate the project is most sensitive to
sugar prices. A 23% drop in prices would reduce the ERR to 10%. Sugar
prices are highly volatile, and it is quite likely that prices in any one
year may be lower than the long-term prices. However, based on present
price forecasts it is not expected that the average long-term prices would
fall by more than 23% below those assumed.
53.       Net smallholder incomes after debt service would be $1,700/year
for new settler families and $2,000/year for existing smallholder famil-
ies, about 80% higher than their estimated current incomes. To ensure such
incomes for the smallholders, while maintaining the viability of the estate,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the smallholder-s share of
the sugar and molasses produced from his sugarcane and the ex-factory price
of sugar and molasses, shall be determined after taking into account, inter
alia, reasonable production costs; the importance of encouraging higher
production, yields and rendements by smallholders, the financial viability
of the estate, and Government taxes, and that such principles would be
reviewed from time to time by the Borrower and the Bank (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Smallholders would repay, as part of a term
credit package, the costs of land clearing, subsistence payments, new
settler housing, roads and crop development overheads. Subloans for
development anc TRI working capital loans wou'ld be collected by BRI by
deducting the amounts owed by smallholders from their sugar payments.
54.       PTP XXIV-XXV is the most successful of the sugar PTPs and has a
strong and improving financial position and a record of financial prudence
and competent management. Concurrently with this project, PTP XXIV-XXV is
developing the Takalar Sugar Estate in South Sulawesi with a 3,000 TCD
factory already purchased. Recent modifications to its other investment
plans, due to developments in the Indonesian economy, aim at consolidation
and should further enhance the PTP's financial viability. The project-s
income statement and cash flow indicate that the project is financially
viable and self-sustaining and would increase the PTP-s overall profita-
bility and cash situation. To further ensure the project-s viability,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that expansion of the sugar
factory capacity to 5,000 TCD would be undertaken only in consultation with
the Bank (Section 4.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Project Risks
55.       Introduction of a new crop into an area entails a certain degree
of technical risk. However, of all sites selected for the sugar program,
the proposed project site is the only one to benefit from five years of
systematically conducted sugarcane trials. This has resulted in selection
of three varieties suitable for local ecological conditions. The Bank-
assisted start-up  cnsultants have also contributed to identifying suitable
agricultural practices and expansion of the project's cane seed garden.
Efforts to reduce the technical risk include the provision of competent
advisory services for implementation, the emphasis on training of project
staff, as well as the establishment of con' l.uous applied research for new
suitable varieties and improved agriculti- al practices.
56.       A lag in timing between sugarcane production and start-up of
milling operations could result in the availability of cane without means to
process it, or in idle milling capacity, with serious financial results. To
avoid this, efforts would be made to assist the Government in achieving its
target milling start-up in 1985, through appropriate procurement and dish-
bursement procedures for both the processing facilities and consultancy
services and through assurances obtained during negotiations that sugarcane
planting in the nucleus estate would commence in the 1983 planting season
(Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Aspects
57.       Development of sugarcane in the project area would replace
degraded rubber plantations, secondary jungle, grassland, and minimal areas
of light cultivation. Soil fertility would benefit from periodic applica-
tions of fertilizer, improved tillage and soil conservation practices.
Biological control of insect pests and small quantities of chemicals used to
control pests and diseases would have no adverse environmental effect.
Specifications for factory construction emphasize control of liquid and
gaseous waste products and fly-ash arrestors to minimize escape of material
from bagasse burning. Filter cake would be returned to the fields where it
has a beneficial effect on soil fertility and sugarcane production.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are that the
completion of financing arrangements between BI/MOF and PTP XXIV-XXV and of
a Smallholder Development Agreement between the DGE and PTP XXIV-XXV would
be conditions of disbursement against respective project components. Other
special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 22 -
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan woild comply with the
Artizles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 1, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDOnESIA              - SOCIA.L INDICAT05 DATA SEET
INDOIESIA                            REFERENCE cGwrps (Y ICNED A&ERACES) 1.
MOST                     (CST RECE*r ESTWATE) lb
RECENT            I=DOLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCrcE
196(A      1970&  ERTEAESN            SIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA £ CARIB
ARM  (TIBAM S1- me
TOTAL                              1919.3     1919.3      1919.3
AGRICULTDRAL                        266.0      307.1       317.3                                          _
Cur MR  CAPITA C055)                   90-0       150.0       530.0             1029.6                   2083.2
-Rt crasUwlow MM CAPIA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENY)     129.0       143.0       266.0              792.8                   1407.6
IwOxATION AND V1L STATISTErS
POPtLATlON.MID-YEAR (THOGSANDS)  94630.0   116ZOI.0   149451 .
URBAN POPELATION CZ 0 TOTAL)       14.6        17.1        20.6               32.9                     65.9
POPCLATIOS ORO.ECTIORS
POPULAT-ON IN ;XvAR 2000 (ML)                            215.7
STAT'ULART POPULATIX (mILL)                              399.5
.rAR STATlORARY POP. REACHED                             :140
FPUKLATIOS DENSITY
PLD SQ. EN.                       49.3        60.5         76.2             Z60.1                     35.6
PFR SQ. EN. ACRI. LAND           355.9       37a_4       461_2             1696.5                     93.2
POPULATION ACE STRCTURE (C)
0-14 YRS                         40.7        44.0        39.8               39.4                     40.1
15-"4 YRS                         56.2        53.4        57.1               57.2                     55.8
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5         3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION CROlN RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.0         2.3                2.3                      2.3
L[RAS                              ;_7         3_r         4.u                3.9                      3.7
CR1DE BIRTH RATE (PER THOM)         45.8        40.7        34.6               11_3                     31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER rH00S)        22.5        17.2        13.1                9.6                      3.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.0         2.7         2.2                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLA`4NYI
ACCEPTORS. JMAL (THOCS)              ,_      10t1.      305t.0
USERS (' OF MRRIED ,830)                       0.2        36.0               46.6
rOOD aND urRITO
INDEX OF rEfOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                       93.0       102.0       122.0              125.2                    113.C
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF RESU1RWENTS)      86-0        94.0       110_0              114.2                    111-3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          38.0        42.0        49.0               57.9                     67.9
OF UNICH ALEhAL AND PULSE         6.0         6.0          7.O/c            14.1                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEA"E RATE         22.9        16.9        13.7                7.6                      5.3
LIFE FXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.2        47.3         53.5              60.2                     64.6
INFANT !ORT. RATE (PER THO0S)      149.9       120.9       105.0               68.1                     62_.h
ACCESS TO SAFE WATEt (tPot)
TOTAL                                -         3.0         23.0              37.1                     64. 
CURLS                                         10.0        41.0               54.8                     77.8
RRAL                                 ..        1.0        18.0               26.4                     6.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
it OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ,,       15.0         23.0              41.4                     54.6
URBAs                                .        14.0        2C.0               47.5                     69.8
RURAL                                         14.0        24.0               33.4                     29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICAN          66780.0    26510.0    11530.0               7771.9                   1776.0
POP. PER .IURSINC PERSON          451D.0/f   7680.0       2300.0             2462.6                   1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1360.0      1650.0      1610. 0/d         1047.7                    477.0
URBAN                             250.0          ,,      70D.071            651.1                    667.5
RL'RAL                              ..           .      316D. oTd          2591-4                   1921.6
ADrISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            .           -        22.4/e             27.0                     27.2
AVERACE SIZE OF HDLRSEHOXD
TOTAL                               4.4        4.8
HURBS                               4.9         5.3
RYRL                               4.3         4.7
APRACE HO. OrF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                           15
URBAN                               ..         1.6.
RURAL                                           1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL
L'RBAN                               .
RURAL                                            ..             ..



-24 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA              - SOCIL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
_urNS  RA _EFERENCE CiOJS (cU T   A
MOST                     (mOST RECEN  ESTIMTE) lb
,,a       __  lRECES b           MIDDLE IICOE           MIDDLE INCowE
196011     1 9 7 0.1-b_ESTIMATE.-    ASIA & PACIFIC      LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
ADJUSTED £NKOLL-MM ATIOS
PRLW%KY:  TOTAL                   7L.0        77.0       98.0              I01.2                    105.0
MALE                   66.0        83.C       104.0              106.0                   106_3
FEMALE                 58.0        71.0        91.0              97.5                    103.6
SECOS)ARIY: TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       28.0               14.9                     40.0
21EALE                 10.0        20.0        33.0              50.0                     38.6
FEMALE                  3.0        10.0        22.0              14.6                     *1.2
vOCATxosAL (C OF SECONDARY)         20.4        22.1        15.5              18.5                     34.J
PCP:LL-TEAC£11It ArlO
PtILERY                           39.0        29.0       34.0               J2.7                     30.7
SECONDARY                         11.0        13.0       16.0               23.4                     16.7
ALT LITERACY RATE (;)               39.0        56.6       62.04              ;-*V                     79.5
PASSENrR CARSTIIOUSAD  POP           1.1         2.1         3.dj              9.7                     45.6
RAD:O RECEIVERSITMUSAND POP          7.2        21.9       42.4              113.7                    228.2
nV flVERSTriOUsasO roP               0.1         0.8        9.6               50.1                    108.3
NEJSPAPEA (-DA1LT GSEREA
ISTE:; T-) CLRCULATIOMN
PER THOUSAND  PWuLTIOS             11.0          ..        17.7/d            54.0                     64.1
ClINEA ASXUAL AXTESDASCEICAPlTA      2.5          ..        0.8/               3.4                      Z.9
LJAOR PUn
TCTAL LAOR FORCE (THOUS)         34791.0    41090.0    53604.0-
FEMALLE (PERCENT)                 27.8        30.9       29.2               33.6                    21.8
ACWICUL'LRE (PERCENT)             75.0        66.0       55.0               50.9                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 8.0        10.0       15.0               19.2                     23.9
FAATECIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.7        35.4       35.9               38.6                     31.3
=: t54.2                                      49.5       51.1               50.7                     49.5
FESA.E                            20.0        21.6       20.8               26.6                     14.b
ECONOMIC DEP.4OESCY AATIO            l.Z         1.3         1.2               1.1                      14.
lEDDIE DlSMTUrlDI
PELCCC-[ UP PRfVATE INO2E
IACLLVEU BY
RliIEST 5Z OF IUSERIOLDS            .          ..       23.5/d             Z2.Z
dlICEST ZO0 OF NWUS-OLDS            ..                   4 &9.C-rl          46.o
WJEST 20; OF OUSEOLDS               ..          .           .7[              b.4
L.SESZ 13 OF- dOiJSEUO LS           --                   14.47              15.5
POVEW   TAU? GlOPS
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERtY IACISE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                                ..          ..      136.04             194.5                    289.8
RURAL                                                    112.0/            155.0                    184.5
ESTIMATED RELATtVE POEurY [StClE
LEVIEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UR&AN                               --          *-       119.04            178.0                    519.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       98.04             L6K.8                    372.1
ESTLIATEU POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PoVEM  LNcOME LEVEEL (Z)
URBA                                ..          ..       28.0,3             Z4.4
RURAL                               ...Oj                                   41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
.2r APeLICABLE
N OT ES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are popinlatlcreLghtsd aritbmtlc mans. Coverage of :wntries among the
indic4tors depends on vailsb lity of data and is  ot unIform.
Ib  Loless othertise noted. -Dara for 19WF  refer to any year between 1959 and Igbl; -Dta for 1970U  betw-en  1969  nd
1971; and data for  Mlost Recent Estiate  between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; /I 1975; if 1962; JR 1978.
May 1983



-25-                                                                         ANNEX I
W. I.tTR-_ W                                                         Page  3  of  5  pages
.....    .7I47.7  1l  ..   ,..  47. ...r.. 14.4.4(2   ~.4s4   .4  n  .*4.17.5.....  v.1.1...  s ..,s1   .1. 4  '11.4   45   4.w..,-t  4   *..r..I.aiI
r. ...  .  1.  1  *'.'.l.4-2.tr4  4212,  ..  .'!  ~~n   ..121.it2.r.2...n.   2..4-r  141  22.. .92. --I. 4.54                    7   .    t    t  i-. 14.1.  2d
'.4, 7?.  ,1. .I 4.1-.I'.44 .  44*- … ... -..1 . 1.r..-2r2 a...rc.t  ..2.r4122....7..4.24.4  2lSI 7544
.%3     2'77   4.   41'.    rg4-...1*                                   g..    %r.   N44.                  142   1.           411!.9.CI.r..                      .-.. .....1n..I-.1..
124  .2I-'  4...   ..   4.~4-I44    74*..1e*.  *1g424   .tt.2r   ...  2.  44   1874'r4.  ...  '..  7..                           2.7*,  f   4  r.. -5
r.~  2. 4.1a   .7.4.    .s...  .-   ''.-   rItrr4.  74.-...2r.. ..g24  t8t,t..  2.r,..  .  %.  .-I .1.15. 7-4h'. a- 5424.74I                             3.    . .
I..2.   7....?   ..417!41 4451.!                                                     1'                               7474124.l1424                        .!4    414   2...71.141
44-  2.'                                                                                  7r-i.5.j-.7   4.14   .r.  -7..4t...4.1.   4  .~7.   *.r1t.
471.?..    --1'I-   44   74477  1  4   774.241                                                    41444   2444                     1714.1.           . 4r44           rst.i   47t444
~ .4.4.4.47... . .41  *52'-'4.. .~r4 .  25. 7.11...:  2440~          t4.             Lit..!..
T-           4t- -!..                                                                                             4..2.   4    ..t.   .    211    4..   4    ..-7r2t~                                     tt1
44.477  714'rI  14'     2217~.744.7. 4474.7 . 742  4.7.2  77!-...     ..Iie'4   24 741U  44  I'~ . 317741   .4  .I.21..42...pI.1  44
.7444   522..4  3..    4..1...4.....  ld..   ..il       7.4
.177.-~~--.r-47'CwTa- 4...?*p~~2  c.c..rr..'.2~r~.                                    -41,!         .       417244.4174422.4y       ~r.lf..14.   lp    4874
.4       II  - 3.11        4.2 ,  :% I-2.1 I- .,1         W
42!7.    .112         2441  4.4..2.  ..774Z1  .42                                                         7%%
*'.a -..7-1..  i424'    ~    .24V71  .12..                    4.r.7. S 31 42*t..434.tli 1474...  147 14...44.44? -.t.t.  744l1~4    7.74
4.41'.,~47t41                                                                -    214.4i           .        2      r..4  4   .4t.4..1   444~.   1.                 2.-47
In. t5.1-4. ..7-,74                     ...     .     ti.t14  ..4.4.    91.4    41    444Ad.42...                                                            71.4.r-         r ....    .24..   I
r.-2:   L.~?2I.             .     4   .   4    41         r.   1           -Itl                                     2    ..2.4Ie..12.?47~ll



- 26-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population    : 147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita: USS580 (1982 eotiuate)
INDONESIA - KCOUOC INDICATORS
Amount                               Annual growth rate (S) la
(mlllon USS at
current prices)                    Actual                       Estimate           oI atedl_
Indicator                         1981           1975   1976   1977   1975  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983 V 98IT985
NATIOMAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domertic product lb      84,932           5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.6   0.1    1.5    5.2    6.2
Agriculture                  20.794           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    3.5    3.5    2.6   3.1    3.1
Industry                     35.634          5.6   11.1  14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    9.0  -6.3    1.3    9.5    9.2
Services                     28.503          10.1    5.9  12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.7    5.6    1.0    2.0    5.0
Consumption                    65,305           6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.7    2.4    2.1    0.0    3.4
Cross Investment               17.506          14.6    6.0  16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7    8.2   27.2  -11.9    5.0    6.0
Exports of GNFS                23.410         -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0  -0.1   -5.7   -3.3 -12.6    1.6  12.6   11.1
Imports of CNFS                21.290         11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7  22.5   16.9  24.3    6.2   -9.6  -4.2    2.2
Gross national savings         16.426        -16.3   14.2  30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -11.9  -11.2   21.6   16.0
PRICES
CDP deflator (1973 - 100)                       166    190    214    238    315    407   "47    491    590    678    753
Exchange rate                                  415    415    415   *42    623    627    632    661    970    970    970
Share of CDP at market prices (2)
1at current prices)                             Avere _    annual increase (2) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990     1960-70    197 -_5   1975-80    1980-65    1985-90
Gross domestic product     100    100    100    100    100    100         3.9         8.4         7.4        5.0        5.2
Agriculture               54     47     32      25     24     23        2.7         4.1        3.3         3.5        4.0
Industry                  14     18    34      43     42      42        5.2        12.0        9.8        5.7         5.2
Services                  32     35     35      32     34     35        4.8         9.7        9.5         5.8        6.0
Consunption               91     89     79      71     72     73        4.1         8.4        9.2         4.6        5.5
Cross invest ent           8     14     20      21     23     :4        4.8        18.3        12.2        3.7        6.0
Exports of GMF5           13     13    23       31     27     25        3.6         9.2        2.9         1.7        3.8
Imports of GNFS          -13    -16    -22    -22    -22   -22          3.2        22.1       14.0         3.2        5.3
Gross national savings     8      9     17      26     20     22        6.1        23.1       14.2         3.1        8.9
As I of CDP
1960         1970          1975          1980           1982
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                              11.7        10.1           17.4           22.5          23.3
Current expenditures                                          14.0         8.6            9.9           12.8          11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                    -2.3        +1.6           +7.5          +9.7          +11.4
Capital expenditure                                           n.a.         5.0           11.3           13.0          14.6
Foreign financing                                             0.2          3.5            3.7            3.3           3.1
1960-70        1970-75           :975-80         L980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual CNP growth rate (Z)                           4.5            7.6               7.1             4.7            5.2
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (2)                2.4            5.1               4.7             2.3            3.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)            2.2           11.2              11.0             5.6            5.2
ICOR                                                 2.2            2.2               3.3             5.3            4.4
Marginal savlngs rate                                0.30           0.48              0.28            0.19           0.3
Import elasticity                                    1.2            2.5               0.84            0.12           1.03
la  At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981. and 1981 prices for 1982-1985.
/b At market prices.
/c  Central Government only. on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                 East Asia and Pacific Programs
July 26. 1983



-27 -
Populatlo     : 147.4 mlilon (aid-I9S0)                                                                     ARM  I
GNP per Capita: US$580 (9S2 estimate)                                                                       Wage S of 5 pags,
INMOUUSIA -          rALANCE OF PAUMETS. EXTERNA  CAPITAL AND DUBT
(Millons  IW at curret pdicEs)
Actual                   Etimat-                Procted
indicator                1977     1970    1979    1980       1981     1982      1983     198      1985     1990
BALANCE OF PArNEDIS /a
1I  Exports                         10.861   11.353   18.510   22.885   22,994    19,524  17.612   20.948   25.491   47.398
(-)  oil & Luc (gross)           7.354    7.374   12.340   17.297   11.824    15,631   13.37t   15.638   19.925   33.931
(b) Nonoil                       3.507    3.979    6.171    5.587    4.170     3.B93   4.242    5.31U    6,066    3.467
2. Imports (including net NFS)    -10.686  -11.493  -13.205  -17.589  -22.635   -22.773  -20.020  -20.983  -23.214  -40.591
(a)  Oil sector                 -2.909   -3.364   -2.940   -4.050  -5.607   -5.468   -4.357  -4.135  -4.39B   -6.899
(b) Nonoil importr              -7.241   -7.543  -9.028  -11.837 -14.561  -15.490  -13.698  -15.069  -l7.160  -31.752
Cc) NFS (net)                     -536    -586  -1,237  -1.702   -2.667   -3.815  -1.965   -1.779  -1,656   -1,940
3. Resource balace                     175    -140    5.305    5.296       359   -3.249  -2.409        -35    2,277    6.807
4. Factor services                    -865  -1.015   -3.106   -3.165   -3.149    -3.466  -3.723   -4.554   -5.553   -9.380
(a)  Interest pubUc debt          -441    -485    -635    -724    -920          -998  -1.486   -L.B26  -2.156   -3.019
(b) Other (net)                   -42      -530  -2.471   -2.441   -2.329    -2.,4B   -2.237  -Z.7Z8   -3.397   -6.361
5. Capital grants                       66       46       52      -76       67       100      100      100      10       10W
6. Balance on current account         -6Z4  -1,109    2.199    2.131   -2.790   -6.715  -6.032    4.489  -3,716   -2.473
7. Direct foreign lneatmat             265      271      217      140      139       276      350      350      400      700
8. Public K b LT I.ns
(a)  Disbursemet                 1.956    1.638    1,939    2.864    3.203     4.991    5.718    5.872    5.792    6.675
(b) Amortization                  -8Z5    -977  -1,335       -987   -1,001   -1.376   -1,541  -1.943  -2.385   -5.517
(c) Net disbursemst-             1.131      660      604    1.877    2.202     3.603    4.177   3.928   3.407    1,158
9. Otber capital (net)                -140      888  -1,329   -1,248      -606      -499    2,420     -225      130    -449
10. Cbhnge in resers (- increae)    -6S1        -708  -1,690  -2.736        981    3.200  -1,032         81  -1,236       100
11. Net official reserves             2.208    2.916    4,606   7,342    6.334      3,074    4.106   4.025   35261    6.909
Reserves in moths of nonoil
imports + NFS                    3.4      4.3      5.4      6.5      6.6       2.1    3.1       2.9      3.3       2.4
Memorandue Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system lb                             -        -    6.906   10.787  11,154      6674    7.506    7,425    8.661   10.309
Total reserves in moths of nonoil
Imports+ UmM                        3.4      4.3      8.1      9.6      7.8       4.7    5.8       5.3    55         3.6
EX-E-RL CITAL AND DERT /c
Gross Ditburm ts                    1 956    2.205    1.865    2 536    2 359
ConcessLonsl Loans                    4        484      433      659    '7Z
illatcral                           381      448      3W       It 1
IDA                                  49       29       30       42       69
Cther                                12        6        5.       6        5
Nonconcesminal Loans                 1,514    1.721    1.432    1 858    1 567
Official export credits             218      271       61       4       165
IBID                                191      16B      199      331      106
Other wmultilateral                  16       12       46       52       B6
Private - source                  1,069    1.270    1.126    1,649    1,210
EZternl Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed Id  11 658  13.107  13.234   14.B82   15 529
Official - source                70.77    8.390    8.434       0     .7
Private. - source               4.593    4,717    4.799    5.482    5.783
Undisbured debt                   4.475    5,839    7.932    9.454   11.557
Debt Service
Total service payaents            1,262   2.062    2,100    1.772    1.974
Interest                           "1      514      771      B19      973
Payments as Z exports Ie           11.6    18.2    11.3        7.7      9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loan
(Z)                                 6.3      7.6      6.6      6.2      8.6
Official - source                   5.6      4.6      5.0      5.5      7.9
Private  - source                   8.6    10.2       8.6    1Z.3       9.2
Average Maturity of Sew Loans
(tYears)                           20.5    18.8    18.is   18.6    15.2
Official - source                  23.B    30.1    :v.8    24.4    20.8
Private  - source                   9.1      8.7    11.0       9.9    10.6
As I of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                                      40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                     69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vtthin first year                                                                    5.7
/l On an April-to-March fiScal year basis.
7ii Includes foreign *ssets of deposit _my banks In addition to official reserves.
7c Excludes private nooguaranteed loans.
Ti At end of period.                                                                           East Asia s'd Pacific Programs
7T  Oil exporto treated on gross basis.                                                                July 26, 1983



-28 -                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number  Year               Purpose                      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5           -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea        -        7.8        0.5
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate             -       16.5        4.7
479     1974   Bali Tourism                              -       16.0        0.4
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                         65.0      -          6.7
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension        21.5      -           0.1
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping       13.0      -          3.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                          130.0      -           6.9
1237     1976   Fourth Education                         37.0      -          4.4
1250     19 76   Second Shipping                          54.0     -           1.8
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension            22.0      -           0.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                       33.0      -           6.3
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0        -           0.3
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.5     -           5.1
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                       32.0      -          9.0
1365     1977   Sixth Power                             116.0      -         28.4
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                    13.0      -          2.8
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education         19.0      -           7.2
1434     19 77   Eighth Irrigation                       63.0      -         28.8
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                         35.0      -           4.4
1472     1977   Second Population                        24.5      -           7.1
148 6    19 78   Nor-Formal Education                    15.0      -           4.0
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I       65.0      -          23.9
1513     19 78   Seventh Power                           94.0      -          29 .7
7t5    19 78   Small Enterprise Development              -       40.0        9.1
1578     19 78   Tenth Irrigation                       140.0      -         106.8
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0     -          14.0
827     1978   Rural Credit                              -       30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II         65.0     -          48.6
8 69    19 79   Polytechnic                              -       49 .0       24.1
1645     1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.0     -          47.2
1653     1979   Third Urban Development                   54.0     -          23.1
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                -       10.0         8.7
1691     1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.0     -          29.6
1692     1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.0     -          13.2
1696     1979   Fifth Highway                            123.2     -          74.8
1703     19 79   Fourth BAPINDO                           50.0     -          9.1



-29 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                            Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                            (less cancellations)
Number   Year             Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
919    1979   Transmigration II                        -      67.0        23.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                       90.C    -          88.1
1708    1979   Eighth Power                           175.0    -           77.5
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                     36.0    -           24.2
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development             -      12.0         9.6
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III      99.0    -           63.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development           -      45.0        34.4
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                     -      45.0        28.9
996    1980  National Agriculture Extension II         -      42.0        36.4
1811    1980  Fourteenth Irrigation                   116.0    -          84.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV       42.0    -           35.3
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research          35.0    -           35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research           -      30.0        24.4
1869    1980   Third Population                        35.0    -           33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                            253.0    -          203.6
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development         46.0    -           40.6
1904    1981   University Development                  45.0    -           43.9
1950    1981   Tenth Power                            250.0    -          177.7
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                       22.0    -           18.1
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                43.0    -           38.8
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V       161.0    -          150.4
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0    -            24.1
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                85.0    -           85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                         170.0    -          167.8
2066    1982   Second Seeds                            15.0    -           14.9
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport              185.0    -         158.4
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                100.0    -           98.9
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                 80.0     -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                         25.0    -           25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                    37.0     -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                  70.0    -           66.3
2120    1992   National Fertilizer Distribution        66.0    -           64.1
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI          68.1     -          67.0
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering            25.0     -          :4.6
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                5.5    -            5.5
Engineering Project
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /a                       300.0    -          300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /a 154.6    -           154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health                       27.0    -           27.0
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation           22.4     -          22.4
/a  Not yet effective.



30-                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ uillion
Loan/                                                            Amount
Credit Fiscal                                             (less cancellations)
Number   Year             Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
224d    1983   Transmigration IIX                     101.0     -        101.0
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development       30.0     -          30.0
Project
Total Bank loans and IDA credits            5,246.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                   -200.11   -7.69
Total now outstanding                       ),U45.49  924.11
Amount sold to third party           28.24
Amount repaid by third party        -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA Ia           5,045.46  924.11
Total undis"arsed                           3,082.70  207.90   3,290.60
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                              Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business          -    (US$ million)---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                 Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia        Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0        -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics          0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                  Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement                 -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
19 79   P.T. Daralon               Textiles             0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera        Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Cons truetion
Material           48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market       4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                          118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                79.6      5.7      85.3
Total held by IFC                                 39.2      12.3       51.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   16.7           -      16.7



-32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1lUU, 12bW, 1434, 1435, 1J18,                                b-LU
1519, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 2248, 499, 1604, 1751,          10-13
1835, 2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                     14
Rural Development (946)                                                    15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                              15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102, 2258)        16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)         20-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                            22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                       22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                 23
Health (2235)                                                              23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                          24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                             24
Highways (1b9b, ZU4Y and ZU63)                                          Z5-2 b
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    26
Ports (1331)                                                               Zb
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                   27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1/W and Zz3b)                                28-29
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89X of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 19//; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another t-bout 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design oi Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 8/1 of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes:  (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved.  Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV
(Cr. 995-IND).



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of D)ecember 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 185,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date:  October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: Janiuary 31, 1986
The main components of the project are constructton and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang Rivar to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects.  Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year's delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date:  July 3, 1980; Closing Date:  January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-lBone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of a-nraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Miil'cn Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9. 000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with comme:'ity facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assig.ned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.



37 --         ~~ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD-s basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maii.tenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Prcrincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919) June 1, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional fau'ilies should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are reqLired to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2248 Transmigration III: $103.6 Million Loan of April 18, 1983;
Effective Date: July 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project would support studies designed to identify and
evaluate suitable land for the settlement of 250-300,000 transmigrant
families; it would settle 2,000 families adjacent to the first Bank-assisted
project in Baturaja, South Sumatra and provide needed services and facilities



- 38-                  ANNEXII
Page 11 of 29 pages
in the existing settlement; and it would assist program development by
improving staff training, expanding agricultural research, and
providing technical assistance to monitor and improve the ecological
soundness of transmigration projects.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders 1:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Teberan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue le Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
ueeds to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92Z of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan Nc. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings hias improved. Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
iLwprove in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Milliou Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: Decembet 31, 1986
All implementing agencies h2ve made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smalLzolders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over



-39 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
responsibility fo' omti  g the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-iN!   3        siirsel--.ts at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisai 2stLmate, and '(J7? of the latest revised estimates.
Toan NO. i33   Nicle:s `state and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan ef 'tay 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
'.isS; l )ate: December 31, 1986
SnalihO1der oil ?Dalm plantinig is on schedule and of excellent
zualitv.  Village lay-out settler house construction, and road development
are a   .It.Le behind szhe'--Le due to problems of land availability.  However,
these  robliems a-e beiap actively addressed by the implementing estate (PTP X)
ancd t,he Project CoordiTazing Committee, and project completion is likely by
target late. Disburseaen-s at the end of December 1982 were about 53Z of
appraisal estimate. anl  64` oL- latest revised estimates.
.oan No  2007   --cieus 'state and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26. 1981; Effective Date:  October 21, 1981;
CI.tosjg date:  June 30, 1988
:- Doie.: !M;' .ievelop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
e  _i paa, cCnurS', fDe  crops and house gardens in West Java, West
:x2   ari  .u e     -.   provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agenr,.  T-  'pr,,.;c ha.s made a good start except that smallholder coconut
develop.ien, t C 'merak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use ag r-ements n-d-ing to be 'inalized.  The component to expand the Estates
iraining  arls  -e  t Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding s_tis.actorily.  Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
loan .o. -- i    Nucleus `state and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
ti  23, 1982; Effective Date:  July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 168
Tihe pr-iiect wiiL assist the GOIFs nucleus estates and smallholders
development orogram by establishirng 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food trops a.nd hotise gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
nro':lnces wih prll i-1 seC-or estates as implementing agents. The project
ipiementin,> agencies ?NP XXVIUI and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cos  fi'nancing of smiallholder development, management problems and severe
labo;r shorta-e or h cm- in Scram.  PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km m.in access roaG over a short period.  PNP XXVIIl's project implemenr-
tation is seriousL-7 dtelayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, techntca: and aeministrat.ve staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with 'ocal government. COI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a vieu- to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government-s commitment to the project. PTP XXIII has made an
e.xcellent ef`ort to overcone the land acquisition problems.  Cooperation with
local government =nad tFhn local population is good.  Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and sza:d:trds attained are satisfactory.  Planning and training
program.s For technirc-i and ±edministrative staff are well in hand and no
serious pronriems are -resecn.



40 -                  ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOI-s nucleus estates and smallholders
(NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institir-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155Z of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of



ANNEX II
- 41 -                   Page 14 of 29 pages
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in scme Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff conzinues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in nonr-rice crops. interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipm--t and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program.  The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's
small credit programs, KIK/KKKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KHKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 82i Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



- 43 -          ~~ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 21 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21% to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(31) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies.  The project is making
good progress and implementation Is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70X of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 1/, 19/b; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of techtology at existing



ANNEX II
- 44 -               Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (NEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procure&ent management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88X of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
aud installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and st-aff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan ot
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, inr-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



ANNEX II
45 -Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, i979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the sezond phase of GOI's long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress contiteuves Lo be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI's request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business adminr
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Iigher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGRE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



- 46 -                  ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) es.ablish a Center for Educational Admini
tration (CEA).
Loan No. ZiUZ   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and-arranging foreign and local training
programs.
Loan No. 2258 Public Works Manpower Development: $30 Million Loan of
April 18, 1983; Effective Date: July 1, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The main objective of the project is to improve the effectiveness
of the Ministry of Public Works (MPS) construction activities through
manpower training. It aims to: (a) strengthen the management of MPW staf
training and related planning activities; (b) establish a Curricula and
Materials Development Unit in the MPW; (c) expand and upgrade the MPW's
training facilities and staff training program; and (d) provide experimental
training for small and medium-sized contractors and mandors (labor
subcontractors who directly hire and supervise construction labor). A
second objective is to strengthen Government planning and management
capabilities through provision of fellowship for key staff of economic
and policy-making agencies.



ANNEX II
- 47 -               Page 20 of 31 pages
ENERGY
Loan No. ±ibb  Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 NW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operati
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 KW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power: $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven mths behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The ERV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.



-48 -                    ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: Aperil 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encour-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank. PLN has already issued another invitatiGn to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants- performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia-s constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its



ANNEX II
- 49 -                   Page 22 of 29 pages
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it
to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: May 2, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finan-.e Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
*                    BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise



ANNEX II
-  50-                    Page 23 of 29 pages
and supervlse larger, more complex projects.  Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981. Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Lcan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54Z.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
Ma.ch 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
educatiot: has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the proviaces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235 Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: May 18, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of $10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year



-51 -                 ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (finatced
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training or
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and ualaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7.
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Th^ Nationl. Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURITANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to prodtice maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of
April 5 1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including m-ater plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



-52 -                 ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about lOZ-15Z.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40Z completed compared to 75Z
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
Cc) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provincial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 198
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The project is about 3 months behind schedile.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disb-zrsement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and



-53 -                   ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Ports
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port-s performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close on December 31, 1983.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980. The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have



- 54 -                  ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to Decc.iber 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in !-carta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653.  Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) - with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37Z of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank-s assistance to GOI-s slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with



- 55 -                  ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
a coverage in each city representing about 15Z to 33Z of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were abeit 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE-s staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and delivezies are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 56 -                  ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 57 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE MID SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project : 4 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project  : Team Khusus with Bank and
consultant assistance
(c)  First submission to the Bank         : 1979
Cd) First Bank mission to identify
the project                         : March 1979
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                             : September 1982
(f)  Date of negotiations                : June 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness       : November 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Start-up funds were provided in the NES V project (Loan No.
2007-IND) to help ensure early implementation of the NES Sugar Project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  GOI to finalize and submit to the Bank by December 31, 1983 a
research program for the overall sugar sector (para. 34).
(b) PTP XXIV-XXV to (i) maintain a debt:equity ratio not exceeding
50:50; (ii) not undertake any new development exceeding Rp. 1.5
billion except as agreed under the project, without consultation
with the Bank; and (iii) review its cash flow every year to
ensure that distribution of dividends would not impair the PTP-s
ability to carry out its investment program and operations with
adequate cash balances (para. 43).
(c) BRI to establish a credit scheme under the TRI adjusted tc the
sugarcane crop cycle in the Other Islands and acceptable to the
Bank, by December 31, 1984 (para. 44).



- 58 -
AA4i'EX III
Page 2
(d)  Payment of sugarcane to smallholders and pricing of sugar ard
molasses would be based on certain principles and that such
principles would be reviewed periodically by  U1 and the Bank
(para. 53).
(e)  Sugarcane planting in the nucleus estate to commence ita the 1983
planting season (para. bb).



IBRD 16814
-:"1l5               114                                      114045'                                            ?      It  DUCI-MIUk 1B^
3045~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0W
\~~~~~~~~~~MV I      \                       y
\~~~~~~~~               ~RMR  ROD IPOOE  ORgi       RENABI3TATED
T..d.kk., ~ ~ ~ ~~anu wn
Vs  st.s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Pl 
A              CNDAENESI A
j    ~PELAIHARI NES SUGAR PROJECT
___________________________________,                                         I  S O U T H   K A LIM A N TA N
W                d-J                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS (PROPOSED OR RENABILITATEDI
_   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~    R                                          * ~~~~~~~~~~ PROPOSED VILLAGE YtTES
_ _ _                                                            *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED FACTORY SITE
_____             ___                                                                 r111
_llrlr    r_                                                  ::  -_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUITABLE CANF LAND
*__*we_                                                             j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARGINAL CANE LAND
_ lt4;t _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUCLEUS ESTATE BOtUNDARY
- *    I  - SMALLHOLDER BLOCK BOUNDARIES
|     _-At2|   *--8    - .      -:                                          tELEVATIONS IN METERS
-           -u-.A-. (                                                                      100-500
*..   -..                                                                       501-1000
KILOMETERS5                                      ABOVE 10
_         ...     -*         - _    KILCETES C                                                  u  NV   ml                       °l'
-AM                               0           5 .                              EXISTING ROADS                         4015-
.   _,            .                                                 ---   RIVERS
_ __- - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES






