Docurnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10726
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(TLOAN 2344-IND)
JUNE 17, 1992
(~~0        e     0t°P
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual Average 1983-90
1983              US$1.00 - Rp.909
1984              US$1.00 - Rp.1,026
1985             USS1.00 - Rp.1,111
1986              US$1.00 - Rp.1,283
19a7              US$1.00 - Rp.1.644
1988             US$1.00 - Rp.1,686
1989              USS1.00 - Rp.1,770
1990             US$1.00 - Rp.1,843
May 6, 1991  US$1.00 = Rp.1,941
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
PTP XXIV-XXV: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
ACRONYMS
BP3G          - Balai Penyelidikan Perusahaan Perkebunan Gula (Sugar Research
Institute - Pasuruan)
BPN           - Badan Pertanahan Nasional (National Land Agency)
BRI           - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGE           - Directorate General of Estates
ERR           - Economic Rate of Return
FRR           - Financial Rate of Return
GOI           - Government of Indonesia
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
Kecamaten    - District
LPP           - Estate Crops Training Institute
NES           - Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
PMU           - Project Management Unit
PNP           - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (State-Owned Estate Enterprise)
PTP           - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State-Owned Estate Enterprise
with Limited Liability)
RSI           - Resident Staff in Indonesia (Jakarta)
SAR           - Staff Appraisal Report
TCD           - Tons of cane per day
Tim Khusus   - The DGE Special Team for NES Projects



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OCice of Directnm General
Operatiom Evaluation
June 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder Sugar Prolect (Loan 2344-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Irdonesia - Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar Project
(Loan 2344-IND)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
12
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the perfiormance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lBank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
EVALUATION SUMHlAYil
PART I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . .   1
1.   Project Identity .                           ...... .
2.   Background  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .   2
4.    Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
5.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
6.   Project Results . . . . . .   . . . ..  ..  . . . .   . . . .  8
7.   Project Sustainability  . ..............                    9
8.   Bank Performance o     . . . . . ..   . . . .   . . . . . . .   .  10
9.    Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .  .   10
10.   Project Relationships .           . . . . . .  .  .     .1
11.  Consulting Services e   .          * . .  . . .  . ....  .   11
12.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
13.   Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .  13
1.   Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
2.   Bank Performance  .. . . . . . .. o.    . . . . . .  . . ..    13
3.    Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
4.   Borrower and Bank Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
5.    Lessone Learned  nd................................. ...     16
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION .R.T     ..................   .   19
Table l: Related Bank Loanseoan .s...........................     19
Table 2: Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .  20
Table 3: Disbursement Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 4: Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . .   . . . . . .   24
Table 6: Economic and Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 7: Review of Loan Covenants         9 . 9. 9.999.9.    26
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX - PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Table l Field Development and Harvesting Schedule  . . . . .   29
Table 2: Key Indicators of Project and Factory
Performance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  30
Table 3: Physical Implementatioa of Project
Infrastructure  .. o.. .   .. . . . . .  . . . ... ..     31
Table 4s Personnel Training . .o. . . .  . . . . . . ..   . . ..     32
Table 5: Advisory Services  . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . .  . .  .   33
MAP - IBRD 16814 (refers to original project area nr43r to modifications)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-IND)
PREFACI
This Project Completion Report (PCR) evaluates the Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder Sugar Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 2344-IND in the amount
of US$79.2 million was approved in August 1983. US$8.9 million was canceled in
April 1987. The Loan was closed at the end of December 1991, three years behind
schedule. By the end of May 1992, US$69.4 million was disbursed. A further
US$0.9 million which remained undisbursed is being canceled.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III and Asia Technical Department, East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II with assistance in Parts I and III).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the Project in August 1991, and is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, project files
and discussions between the Bank and the Borrower.



- iii. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-IND)
EVALUATION SUMNARY
Objectives
1.        The Project was part of the Government of Indonesia's (GOIu)
program to develop sugarcane production and processing outside Java. It was
also expected to test the suitability of the Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
(NES) model for developing smallholder sugar in the outer islands under
rainfed conditions. The main components weres
(a) planting 12,400 ha sugar cane, of which about 7,800 ha would be
turned over to some 5,000 smallholders;
(b) developing 3,000 ha of land for foodcrops and house-gardens for the
new settler families;
(c)  constructing estatb infrastructure, settler housing, and village
and field roads;
(d) constructing a 4,000 tons/cane/day (-CD) sugar factory; and
(e) providing technical assistance to the implemerstirg Government
estate company (PTP XXIV-XXV) and for manpower traininq within the
overall sugar development program.
Imglementation ExPerience
2.        The sugar factory was completed on schedule but land development,
more particularly for smallholders, fell behind appraisal estimates. The
failure to identify suitable land not already occupied accounted largely for
this delay. The amount of land eventually made available was less than
anticipated and each smallholders food lot was reduced from 1 ha to 0.5 ha.
3.            XXP XIV-XXV (State-owned estate enterprise with limited liability)
management failed to develop a good technology packages for smallholders or a
field operational system which would ensure high cane yields and good sucrose
extraction rates (rendement) at the sugar mill. These results reflect sadly
on the failure of the PTP management to focus on the objective of high sugar
production and to devlse the agronomic practices and incentive payment
structure to achieve this. Both the project implementation consultants and
Bank supervision missions repeatedly drew attention to the shortcomings in
field operations without much success.. The training program for operating
staff and farmers fell far behind appraisal expectations but as the technology



- iv -
package and field operating systems were poorly developed the potential for
training courses was in any case severely hampered. The Closing Date was
extended from December 1988 to December 31, 1S91 to complete land development
and to facilitate factory expansion from 4,000 TCD to 5,000 TCD. The Loan
size was reduced from US$79.2 million to US$70.3 million in April 1987 due to
the devaluation of tha Rupiah and the provision of a higher contingency
allowance than was needed.
Results
4.        To date, the Project has failed in its macro objectives of:
(a) assisting the development of viable smallholder and estate
production and processing of cane sugar outside Java; and
(b) identifying a suitable development model for this purpose.
5.        Between 1983 and 1990 inclusive, the Pelaihari project only
produced 92,402 tons of sugar compared with an appraisal estimate of
273,000 tons (a shortfall of 67 percent). This shortfall Li primarily
responsible for the poor returns: ERR of -S.9 percent as compared with 16
percent at appraisal and the financial rate of return at 2 percent compared
with 13 percent. Achievable improvements in project management at this
juncture could still raise the ERR to 5 percent and the FRR to 7.5 percent
respectively for the life of the Project (Part III Table SA).
6.        The Project has had a positive effect in increasing economic
activity and ixtrengthening government services in the District (Kecamatan) of
Pelaihari. However due to low cane yields, farmers, incomes did not achieve
the levels envisaged at appraisal.
Sustainability
7.        A major shake-up is required in the past management regime, and
probably the field pay-roll and staff salary reward structure, so that there
is an incentive to improve the economic efficiency of the operation. T!h
opinions of the consultant advisory team, and results being achieved under
rainfed condition. elsewhere in Indonesia, still indicate that this Project
could be made viable.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
8.        The results achieved to date must be conisidered as unsatisfactory
and cast serious doubts about the suitabilLty of PTPs of implementing
innovative changes in smallholder agriculture. Key lessons learned in this
Project include:
(a)  The need to have an organizational structure for project
implementation which is flexible, fully committed to project
objectives and has few, if any, other managervent distractions;
(b)  A technology package that $e well developed for the environment in
question before being implemented on a substantial scale and/or an



v -
effective monitorinQ system that ensures continuous variety trials
and adaptation to address local production problems;
(c) Ensuring that land is available without delay for project
implementation and that political and legal impediments do not
delay the issue of land titles; and
(d) The need for the PTP or Project Management Unit to introduce the
profit motive into their management objectives.



PROJECT COMPLETIOLI[REPQR
INDOI1ESIA
HUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-IND)
PART I . PROJECT REVIEW FROM bANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar Project
Loan No.    X   2344-:ND
RVP Unlt    s  EAPVP
Country     I   Indonesla
Subsector   :  Agriculture
Background
1.1       Prior to the depreossion of the 1930s, Indonesia was the world's
largest exporter of sugar. It produced some three million tons and exported
over two million tons annually. However, during World War II, the industry
was badly neglected and by 1966 production had declined to 610,000 tons. A
major rehabilitation program Ln the 1970. raised production by the end of the
decade to 1.3 million tons. Nevertheless, the country remalned a net importer
(sugar imports exceeded 700,000 tons in 1982) and demand was expected to
continue expanding for some years as population and incomes increased.
1.2       At the time of appraisal (September 1982), some 95 percent of the
sugar was still produced in Java and two thirds of the cane was grown in
rotation with paddy on irrigated land, although small farmers disl!.ked the
system because returns were lower from cane production than from paddy. The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) wished to increase sugar production aad reduce
its dependence on Lrrigated paddy land if Lt could find viable alternatives.
The current Project was intended to: (i) explore the potentiLal for expandLng
sugar production under rainfed conditions in the outer islands; and (ii) test
a development model to accomplish this. Customarily, rainfed cane tends to
have lower costs and lower output than irrigated cane production.
1.3       The Bank has assiated Indonesia's sugar industry since the early
1970s. In the early years it helped finance factory rehabilitation, new
construction, sugar resear.; and a study of the possLbility of exprnding sugar
production outside Java.  .t later supported the long-term strategy of
swLtching from lrrigated to rainfed sugar production and of regional
diversification of cane growing. WLth thLo object in mind, it continued to
support a number of feasibility studies for potential sugarcane areas outside
Java, includlng South Kalimantan. Based upon a feasibility study undertaken
by PT Agriconsult in association wLth Hawaiian Agroaomics Company
(International), the Bank undertook a project identificatLon mlssLon in South
Kalimantan in August/September 1980. Gol and the Bank concluded that the
consultants' assumptions about cane yLelds had been overly optimistic.
Finally, with a factory to be located in the vicinity of Pelaihari, South
Kalimantan, the proposed project was reformulated and start-up funds were
included in the NES V (Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V) Project (Loan 2007-
IND). Until March 1983, about $3.1 milllon had been disbursed for preparatory
works in additicn to the equivalent of $2 milLion Lnvested by Col. The Bank,



-2-
through its lending program, had a4so nurtured the NES concept in a series of
projects in the tree crop sector. This vehicle was perceived as a suitable
means for developing sugar production in tha outer islands and was
incorp"rated into the Project.
Proiect Objectives and Description
1.4       Protect ObJectives.  The Prc.4ect was part of 001's program to assist
smallholder and estate development in sugarcane production and processing
outside Java. It was also seen as a pilot project to test the viability of
sugarcane production under rainfed conditions in the outer islands. Further
objectives were:
(a)  a reduction of foreign exchange needed to import sugar;
(b)  a reduction of domestic resources used to transport sugar from Java
to Kalimantan;
(c)  increased incomes for the area's existing smallholders and for new
farmer settlers from surrounding and overpopulated areas c'
Indonesia;
(d)  increased on- and off-farm permanent and seasonal employment in the
area; and
(e)  benefits to the overall economy of the region through infrastructure
improvements needed for the Project.
1.5       ProJect Components.  The Project consisted of the following parts:
(a)  Nucleus Estate Development (PTP XXIV-XXV) (State-owned estate
enterprise with limited liability)
(i) Planting about 4,600 ha of sugarcane on the site of an old
rubber estate north of Pelaihari;
(ii) Constructing estate housing, community facilities and other
buildings, with sanitation and water supply, for 2,300 estate
personnel, including seasonal workers;
(iii)  Constrw-ting or upgrading about 420 km of factory, village and
field roads;
(iv) Constructing and equipping a 4,000 tons/cane/day (TCD) sugar
factory (expandable to 5,000 TCD) to process estate and
smallholder cane, including ancillary water and power supplies;
and
(v) Procuring vehicles, and road construction and agricultural
equipment.
(b) Smallholder Development



-3-
(i)  Planting about 7,800 ha of sugarcane for some 5.000
smallholders, including 2,000 existing farmers (000 from an
existing transmigration scheme south of Pelaihari recently
turned over to local government), and 3,000 new settlers to be
established north of Pelaiharl under NES selection procedures;
(ii) Developing 3,000 ha of land for foodcrope and house gardens for
the new settler families;
(iii) Building housing, with sanitation and water supply, for the new
settler families;
(lv) Constructing about 1,000 km of village and field roads; and
(v) Providing seedcane, foodcrop seed, fertilizers and pesticides
(in kind or in credit) to smallholders as well as subsistence
loans for facilities on newly developed land.
(c) Regional Infrastructure and Services
Improvement of about 40 km of a provincial road from Banjarmasin to
Pelaihari, including bridges and culverts and the construction of
about 130 km of primary village roads.
(d) Technical Assistance and Program Support
(i) Providing 294 staff-months of consultant services and 2,540
staff-weeks of training to assist PTP XXIV-XXV in implementing
the project;
(ii) Civil works, equipment and vehicles, specialized consultancy
services and research travel for applied research in the
Project area under the guidance of the Government's Sugar
Research Institute;
(iii)  Funds for planting, nursery and field development, and civil
works construction for future estate and/or smallholder
projects based on annual crops, and for studies in the sugar
subsector; and
(iv)  Funds for support of the manpower and training program for
seven new sugar estates within the overall sugar development
program.
Project Design and Organization
1.6       The Project was identified in August/September 1980, prepared in
March 1981 and appraised in September/October 1982. It was considered by the
appraisal team to be a well-prepared project and its conceptual design was
readily accepted by GOl and the Bank as appropriate.
1.7       Design Concept.  This comprised using a nucleus estate as the foster
parent for the development and early nurturing of smallholder sugar



development. It was envisaged that the nucleus estate would be responsible
for land clearing, installation ot infrastructure and processing facilities,
provision of planting materials and other inputs, and technical and managerLal
support. It would also provide new settlers wlth employment in the initLal
phase of development as well as arrange with Bank Rakyat Indonesla (BRI) for
the requisLte credit package.
1.8       The concept has been reasonably effective in implementing
smallho'der trae crop development where many of the technical and managerial
problems were well understood. But using this concept for developing rainfed
smallholder sugar productlon under unfamiliar soLl and climatic condltions
increased tiw% risks considerably and highlighted the experimental nature of
the Project. To address this feature, a substantLal applied research and
training component was Lncluded in the Project. However, the technlcal
consultant input to address these lssues finally accepted by the Government
was consLderably smaller than orLginally recommended by the feasibillty study
repocc.
1.9       Organization.  The Directorate General of Estates had overall
responsibility for the Project and a department of the Sugar Council was to
provide guidance on technical and research matters. The PTP XXIV-XXV
President Director would be the cfficLal prcject manager directly responsible
for implementing the Project. The President Director (or managing director)
of the PTP would in turn appoint an on-site operating manager who would be
supported by a team of managers covering various aspects of the Project,
including factory, field, research and training activities. The sector
managers would be supported by lower-level managers and foremen.  In addition,
an expatriate project coordinator was appointed to oversee the work of the
technical consultant team and ensure that their fLndings and recommendatLons
were being incorporated into operations and the research and training
programs.
1.10      The South Kalimantan Provincial Government was expected to play a
relevant role in supplying smallholders with health, educatLon, social and
food crop extension services.  GOX agreed to strengthen the provincial
services where necessary to asesit project implementation and to expedite the
granting of land titles to mallholders. BRI also agreed that, in
collaboration with Tim Rhusus (the Director General of Estate's Special Team
for NES projects), it would devise and inetall a credit system responsive to
the needs of the smallholder sugar producers in Kalimantan, taking account of
the different growing cycle in the outer islands. Central Government
Departments, or cheir provincial counterparts, were expected to play their
respective roles and a ProvLncial Coordinating Committee already established
in South Kalimantan would help coordinate these activities.
Proiect ImplementatLon
1.11      The Loan was declared effective on October 28, 1983, some six weeks
after signing.  It wa; closed on December 31, 1991, having been extended by
three years from December 31, 1988 to allow for the completion of the sugar
factory expansion.



1.12      FactorX Construction.  The sugar factory was completed on schedule
in June 1985 and the first milling commenced in July 1985. In general, the
mill performed well with an overall recovery of around 67 percent compared
with a desired level of 70 percent. This achievement should be considered
good in light of the poor quality of cane delivered to the factory.
1.13      Land Development.  The rate of cane planting was running well behind
schedule in each year for the period 1983-87 inclusive. By 1987, 3,974 ha of
cane had been planted on the nucleus estate in Pelaihari, which represents 86
percent of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate. However, only 3,987 ha
of smallholder cane had been planted, representing 51 percent of that
envisaged at appraisal (Part III, Annex Table 1). Several factors account for
the poor implementation of the smallholder component. Firstly, there was a
delay of nearly six months in settling the contract with Tate and Lyle, the
implementation consultants, and their local counterpart consulting firm
(INDECODE). This was completed in February 1984. Secondly, there was
considerable difficulty in obtaining suitable land for the Project, which had
been troubled by local politics and inadequate mapping of the project area
during preparation to identify land ownership, rights-of-way for road
construction and for land-use planning. Upon remapping of the area by Tate
and Lyle, it was established that much of the northern land considered
suitable at project appraisal was in private hands. The appraisal mission had
been assured by GOI and the South Kalimantan provincial government that an
adequate area of suitable sugar land was available and un-occupied. In fact,
powerful political interests laid claim to some of this land when detailed
planning and land developing commenced. Bank staff were disappointed with
this turn of events. At the mid-term revLew (April 1987) the Bank indicated
that the future of the Project was at stake unlees alternative land was made
available and greater commitment was made to smallholder settlement on the
part of PTP management and GOI. Despite considerable efforts by the central
and provincial governments to find suitable new areas for the Project, land
allocation to smallholders had to be reduced from the planned 2.5 ha per
smallholder to 2 ha, leaving only 0.5 ha or less (instead of the 1 ha
originally planned) for foodcrop production. The smallholder cane area per
smallholder was maintained at 1.5 ha, but the planting program had been
seriously delayed because of these difficulties.
1.14      Regional Infrastructure and Services.  Settlement of smallholders
and the construction of village houses and village infrastructure were also
behind schedule (Part III Annex Table 1). The Project provides for three
groups of smallholderss local farmers, new transmigrants and existing
transmigrants. At Project Closing, only some 11 percent of all of these
groups had acquired ownership of the land they till. Procedures for laad
titling and acquiring ownership are extremely complicated and open to abuse.
Pride of ownership often nurtures good farming practice and facilitates the
provision of credit, but these benefits were postponed because of the delays
in issuing titles.
1.15      Technical Assistance and Program Support.  To assist PTP XXIV-XXV
during the implementatLon period and in the first two years of factory
operation, advisory services were provided for project coordination, field
development, agronomy, agricultural extension, civil engineering,
mechanization, and harvesting and transport of cane (Part III Annex Table 5).



The technical assistance contributed to the efficient commissioning and
running of the factory in the initial phase. However, the development of
effective field operations to deliver cane to the factory in a manner to
ensure high sugar production has yet to be achieved. This failure, however,
should be attributed largely to the PTP management and inadequate training
rather than to the shortcomings of the technical assistance team. Training
fell far short of SAR expectations (Part III, Annex Table 4). To initiate
continuous applied research to identify new varieties and agricultural
practices better suited to the project area, the Project also funded research
facilities and consultancies. This research would enable cane producers to
keep ahead of pests and diseases and to improve cane yields and sugar recovery
percentages (rendement). The actual execution and commercial application of
this work was also poor, and raises serious doubts about the commitment and
motivation of the project management team at PTP headquarters and in the
field. The results from on-site variety trials were sometimes ignored, trial
plots were destroyed by fire in some years, and established findings were
freqluently not transferred effectively into field operations. A measure of
the failure to transfer technology and applied research is illustrated by the
facts that between 1985 and 1990 inclusive, cane yields only reached on
average around 60 percent and sucrose rendement only 64 percent of appraisal
forecasts (Part III, Table 4 and Annex Table 2).
1.16      Management.  Throughout implementation, the Banlc in its supervision
reports persistently complained about the poor management of this Project in
general, and the lack of interest in the smallholder component in particular.
Factory management performed relatively well. The need to improve field
management in order to raise cane yields, and get cane to the factory without
undue delay after cutting, has been a persistent problem. Applied research to
select the most suitable cane varieties has to be pursued more vigorously and
with the active interest of the project management. Weeding and fertilizing
also needs much greater attention, as well as the field supervision of cane
cutters to control wanton burning of cane. Attention also needs to be given
the wage bonus payments to ensure that they are conducive to good weeding,
cutting and harvesting practices. Serious fire damage has occurred repeatedly
in the cane stand and reeearch plots with the site management apparently
taking a passive interest in the devastation which was occurring. Burning of
cane up to 10-15 days before it is delivered to the mill has a marked
deleterious effect on sugar yield. In 1990 practically the whole area was
burned in one fire and some 7,900 tons of sugar worth Rp 5 billion (US$2.4
million) was lost as a consequence. The system of worker remuneration was
held partly responsible for such fires. Numerous examples can be cited of the
failure of field managers to take heed of advice given by the consultants and
Bank Staff, such as the failure to act on advice to use chemical control of
uret (a worm which eats cane roots) at an early stage before it had spread;
the failure to implement effective weed control with the result that lalang
(imperata cylindrica) is a problem in some areas; the planting of cane
varieties which had been demonstrated to be unsuitable for Pelaihari; and
planting too high a proportion of a single variety (63 percent of the area was
planted to PS 56).  In order to reduce the impact of potential pests and
diseases, no single variety should exceed 40 percent of the planted area. The
management of field operations and the training and payment incentive system
for employees has to be tailored to maximize sugar production.  This has still
not been achieved in Pelaihari. For the future survival of the Project, poor



-7-
management performance at all levels needs careful scrutiny to decide whether
(i) personnel selection procedures need to be reviewed; (ii) the prese.it
incentive structure is conducive to responsible management and field
operations; and (iii) whether th3 management organization itself needs to be
changed.
1.17    Credit Arrangements.  By the Project Closing Date, the 5,625 small
farm beneficiaries were expected to have had their financial obligations under
the Project converted to a loan payable to BRI. This loan would cover the
debt incurred in cane and foodcrop land development and construction of the
fArmhouse. Again, PTP XXIV-XXV, the National Land Agency and BRI have been
tardy in this regard and only aoout 10 percent have been converted. As a
result of poor project implementation, development costs were high. The debt
loan being transferred to smallholders should be reviewed carefully to ensure
that they are not being saddled with costs which rightly should be borne by
PTP XXIV-XXV or the Government.
1.18    Project Costs and Disbursements.  The original Bank Loan of US$79.2
million was reduced to US$70.3 million when US$8.9 million was canceled on
April 14, 1987. A further US$0.9 million remaining undisbursed was to be
canceled at Loan Closing at end-April 1992. At Project Completion on December
31, 1991, project costs amounted to US$106.9 million compared with an
appraisal estimate of US$130.2 million, despite the fact that US$5.0 million
was spent on factory extension not included in the appraisal costs (Part III,
Table 5A). This reduction in costs occurred for a variety of reasons, among
the most significant being: (i) a devaluation of around 60 percent in the
rupiah/dollar exchange rate; and (ii) inclusion of a higher contingency
allowance (18 percent) than was needed.   In rupiahs, the SAR costs were 126
billion (US$122 million) compared with actual costs of 154 billion (US$149
million) (excluding factory extension costs). This was an overrun of around
20 percent in rupiahs. During the mid-term review of the Project in 1987, it
was discovered that at appraisal several costs were attributed to the nucleus
estate which more appropriately should have been assigned to smallholder
development. Taking this into account, the overrun in costs occurred mainly
in the nucleus estate account and included heavy expenditure on vehicles,
machinery, buildings and utilities. At appraisal, the Bank was to finance the
foreign exchange costs of the Project estimated at 61 percent, but the actual
results were that the Bank financed 66 percent of the project costs in US
dollars (Part III, Table 5B). Disbursements were running substantially behind
appraisal estimates in the early years --around 50 percent-- mainly as a
result of delays in smallholder land and housing development (Part III, Tab'e
3). The criginal Closing Date of December 31, 1988 was extended to December
31, 1991 to catch up with the smallholder program and to allow for factory
capacity expansion from 4,000 TCD to 5,000 TCD.
1.19    Procurement and Covenants.  A major procurement issue arose during
implementation. GOI wished to award the bid for sugar harvest equipment to a
local firm in order to foster indigenous manufacture. Even after allowing for
the 15 percent preference for local manufacturers under international
competitive bidding (ICB), the bid was not competitive nor was the proposed
equipment considered of comparable quality end effectiveness to alternative
imported machinery being considered. The PTP management and consultant
advisors recommended against purchase. Nevertheless, GOI went ahead and
sanctioned local purchase, but the Bank refused its financing under the Loan.



- 8 -
The purchase turned out to be highly unsatisfactory. Otherwise, all the major
covenants have been complied with (Part III, Table 7).
1.20      Risks.  The appraisal team identified three categories of risks
relating to the Project, namely: (a) they recognized that new management
approaches and new technologies would be required under the completely
different ecological conditlons of soil and climate pertinent to Xalimantan.
Indeed, the traditional experiences acquired over centuries Ln sugar
production in Java were perceLved as an obstacle to the rapid acceptance of
new approaches needed at Pelaihari; (b) TLming of project activities: because
of the relatively short duration of the dry season needed fur both harvesting
and land preparatLon, the effective programming and executLon of each of the
many activities in sugar growing were crucial to achieving satisfactory levels
of production. Also, the phasing of lnitial cane planting and factory
completion were seen as critical to the financial viability of the Project.
Planting was to commence according to an agreed schedule in 1983 and the sugar
factory was to begin worklng in 1985; and (c) The lack of trained personnel to
manage and operate the estate. All these concerns turned out to be well
founded. In hindsight, it appears that the technical input, organizational
setup, training and management failed to overcome these risks. The delay in
making land available on time was also a substantial confounding factor. An
on-site management team with a well-honed system of field and factory
operations and a technical package with a system of continuous applied
research to ensure improvement Ln cane yield and sugar production over time
never emerged. However, the consultant team even at completion date, still
firmly believed that higher yields of sugar could have been achieved. Bank
staff throughout much of the Project's life and at preparation of the Project
Completion Report, consider that with greater commitment, openness to new
ideas, and motivation on the part of management the risks could have been
largely overcome and a markedly different project outcome achieved.
Project Results
1.21      To date, the Project has faLled in Lts macro objectives of:
(i) assisting the development of viable smallholder and estate production and
processing of rainfed cane sugar outside Java; and (ii) identifying a suitable
development model for this purpose. The Project has had a positive effect in
increasing economic activity and strengthening government services, Ln the
District of PelaiharL. However due to the low cane yLelds farmers Lncomes dld
not achieve the levels assumed at appraisal.
1.22      Economic and Financial Analysis.  Applying the same methodology and
basic assumptions as at appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the
Project is now estimated at -5.9 percent compared wLth 16 percent at appraLsal
and the financial rate of return (FRR) at 2 percent compared wLth 13 percent
(Part III, Table 6A). The Profit and Loss Statement for the PTP also shows
that it made a financial loss on its operations at Pelaihari for most of the
period (Part III, Table 6B). The major reason for these discouraging results
is the failure to reach acceptable cane yields in the field and satisfactory
sucrose extractLon rates (rendement) at the factory. Between 1983 and 1990
inclusive, the Project produced 92,402 tons !f sugar compared with an
appraisal forecast of 273,000 tons, a shortfall of 67 percent (Part III, Table
4). Whereas the local soils and climate aro not conducive to high yields, Lt



-9-
has been noted earlier that, with reasonable management and attention to
detail, better yields are achievable in Pelaihari. If cane yields were raised
at this junction to 65 tons/ha and sugar rendement to 6.25 percent, the ERR
would be raised to 5 percent the and FRR to 7.5 percent for the life of the
Project (Part III, Table 6). The poor results at the early phase of this
Project cannot be fully overcome. GOI should review project management of the
Project however to ensure that these yields are obtained for the duration of
the Project's life and to provide a basis for determining sugar policy in the
outer islands.
1.23      Physical Achievement.  The smallholder program was delayed and the
area of foodcrops for each smallholder was reduced from 1 ha to 0.5 ha due to
a shortage of suitable land. Overall however, the physical targets were
largely met (Part III, Table 4). The factory was built in a satisfactory
manner and started working on schedule.
Project Sustainability
1.24      GOI should not allow the continuation of the sugar project under the
past management regime. A major shakeup is required in the management
structure and probably in the management and field staff salary reward system
so that there is a direct incentive to improve the economic efficiency of the
operation. There is also a need to increase the local managers and foremen's
sense of responsibility for the Project. The experience with this Project
raises serious doubts about the suLtability of a PTP to be the development
agency for an innovative project where close management attention to detail
and the ability to change operating pslicies and procedures on the spot are
required. Selling the Project to the private sector with safeguards for
smallholders, or establishing a special on-site project management unit (PMU)
with full responsibility and authority, should be considered. To further
raise the Projects' efficiency, in addition about 1,000 ha of unsuitable cane
land should be withdrawn from cane production, thus leaving 10,850 ha.
1.25      It is estimated that if the unsuitable cane land was retired from
production and management and applied research activities raised to "average"
levels, the following production coefficients would be readily achievable in
Pelaihari:
Actual          SKIL
SAR Average 1985-90 forecast /a
Cane yield/ha (tons)    Nucleus Estate        80       45.91            65.0
Smallholders         70       43.41
Sucrose rendement (%)   Nucleus Estate    8.50          5.40            6.25
Smallholders      8.50         5.61
/a Sugar Knowledge International, Ltd. (SKIL).



- 10 -
1.26      If the sunk costs of the Project in the factory, vehicles,
machinery, buildings and initial land development are ignored, continuation of
the Project with these higher yields is likely to be economically viable.
However, this model cannot be accepted as the means for developing viable
smallholder rainfed cane production in the outer islands.
Bank Performance
1.27      During the eight years of project implementation, the Bank carried
out 10 formal supervisions and one mid-term review. The Bank's dialogue with
GOI was continuous, and often intense, through the Resident Mission Indonesia
(RSI). On a number of occasions serious, unresolved implementation problems
were raised at the ministerial level and with the planning agency (Bappenas).
These related particularly to land availability, the performance of PTP
management and procurement. The Bank made several attempts to address the
shortcomings in on-site management without great success. During
implementation the Bank was especially worried about the failure of project
management to address the concerns of the smallholders. Because of this it
persuaded the implementation consultant team to use the services of a
sociologist to review the situation. Partly because of slow progress, the
Bank staff at RSI undertook a detailed mid-term project review. On the basis
of this study, the Bank indicated to GOI the critical state of the Project and
the need for drastic action if it were to be rescued. Again, some of the
problems (which were already known to all parties) were elevated to the
ministerial level of GOI, and assurances were given to the Bank that major
changes would be made in management and smallholder land development. Bank
Staff accepted these assurances and at the time considered that the abnormally
high Bank staff inputs into project supervision and review had been
worthwhile. Land allocation for smallholder development showed a marked
improvement following this review but little improvement occurred in field
operations or in sugar production (see Annex Table 1). In hindsight, it would
appear that the appraisal mission was overly optimistic about yield potential
and particularly about overcoming the difficulties of developing and
implementing a technology package for rainfed cane production in the outer
islands.
Borrower Performance
1.28      During project appraisal and supervision, PTP XXIV-XXV provided all
the support needed. Nevertheless, the Project suffered from the lack of
guidance and coordination which seems to stem from the thinking that Pelaihari
in South Kalimantan can be operated in the same style as a sugar estate in
Java. Of a total of 5,095 smallholders participating in the Project, only 557
had been "converted" by August 1991 (i.e., Government expenditures converted
into small farmer loans). So far, the Borrower has failed to recognize that
slowness in the process of loan conversions does not only demote small farmers
to the ranks of laborers, but impedes debt repayments as well. No
comprehensive accounting is carried out to automatically show the results of
the operation as a whole. PTP's financial control system aims at fulfilling
budgetary and other obligatory requirements rather than charging the actual
expenditures as they are incurred. Analysis and follow-up procedures are
largely reduced to monitoring the realization of planned funds against the



- 11 -
financi?Lg plan. PTP failed to realize the technological, managerial and
financial challenaes posed by this Project.
Project Relationships
1.29      The Bank's relationship with GOI and PTP XXIV-XXV concerning this
Project have been good. Working relationships between the various
participating governmental departments and agencies have also been amiable,
but have not been structured and controlled by management according to the
priorities dictated by the nature of the Project. The isolation of the
project site from PTP headquarters and from Banjarmasin (the provincial
capital), have caused considerable communication problems, particularly since
the decision-making is centralized in Surabaya. This communication problem is
also reflected in the project's relations with surrounding villages and
farmers.
Consulting Services
1.30      Because it was considered an innovative project, consultant services
were built in to minimize technical risks during implementation, to provide
on-the-job training for project staff, and to assist in applied research
relating to soil nutrition, cane varieties, pests, diseases and herbicides.
Consultants provided the backbone of this effort.  Key areas of consultant
assistance have been mapping of the topography and soils, providing supporting
maps for the discussions between the PTP and local government on land
acquisition, designing and planning infrastructure layout for estate and
smallholder components, doing field applied research on fertilizer
applications and cane varieties, training field managers in emerging
technology, establishing agricultural workshops and training workshop staff,
assisting preparation of the annual work plans and organizing key activities
such as harvesting, advising on mill design and operations, and assisting the
PTP with procurement, project cost updates and financial and economic
analyses. The breadth and intensity of these consultant activities has
benefitted the Project considerably. Training, which was to be carried out
primarily by Indonesian agencies, but with the technical support of
consultants, proved disappointing and amounted to only 20 percent of the SAR
estimate (Part III, Annex Table 4).
1.31      In general, the performance of the consultants was considered fully
satisfactory by Bank supervision missions. The major difficulty arose in
getting the PTP management at all levels to adopt and adapt the consultants
recommendations quickly and efficiently.
Project Documentation and Data
1.32      The original documentation for the Project was adequate.  In
hindsight, an analysis into the arguments for assuming an average cane yield
of 80 tons/ha on the estates, based on the research of one single nursery, may
have revealed the optimistic nature of the SAR estimate.
1.33      Financial data relating to the Project are scattered among several
agencies, making it difficult to gather and prepare an overview of progress in
the Project.  The lack of interest in management accounting also had an



- 12 -
adverse impact. The consultants prepared such a system, but it was never
implemented. GOl and its agencies supplied the Bank, in a satisfactory
manner, with all the records required under the Loan Agreement.
Conclusions and Lessons Lea-ned
1.34      The results achieved to date must be considered as unsatisfactory
and to show serious doubts about the suitability of the PTP as an organization
for implementing innovative changes in smallholder agriculture. Key lessons
learned in this Project includet
(a) The need to have an organizational structure for project
implementation which is flexible, fully committed to project
objectives and has few, if any, other management distractions;
(b) A technology package that is well developed for the environment in
question before being implemented on a substantial scale and/or an
effective monitoring system that ensures continuous variety trials
and adaptation to address local production problem.;
(c) Ensuring that land Ls available without delay for project
implementation and that political and legal impediments do not delay
the issue of land titles;
(d) The need for the PTP or a PMU to adopt management accounting in
order to introduce the proflt motive into their management
objectives.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLEHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-iND)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
2.1       Part III of thil Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Indonesia
Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (NES) Sugar Project (Loan No. 2344-IND) was
prepared jointly by the supervision missions from The World Bank (the Bank)
from August 21 to October 4, 1991, and the Special Team for Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder Development Projects (Tim Khusus), Directorate General of Estates
(DGE). The information originated primarily from the records of the nucleus
estate implementing agency PTP XXIV-XXV for the smallholders and nucleus
estate components and from the Estate Crops Training Institute (LPP) and the
Sugar Research Center (BP3GI-Pasuruan) for the program support component. The
data submitted by these agencies were cross-checked with the available data
from Tim Khusus and with field visits conducted jointly by the above-mentioned
supervision mission and Tim Rhusus. Other data were obtained from the Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No. 4405-IND, dated June 27, 1983) and past
supervision mission reports.
2.2       Part I is an assessment by the Bank of the implementation of the
Project from its perspective. Pzrt Ir is written from the Borrower's point of
view.
Bank Performance
2.3       The Bank, up to the present, is the largest foreign lender for the
estate crops subsector in Indonesia and, together with the Government of
Indonesia (GOI), started financing the NES development projects in late 1977.
Out of eight NES projects assisted by the Bank, seven were in tree crops;
namely, rubber, oil palm and coconut and the eighth being this Project on
sugarcane. In the 1970s the Bank, through its International Development
Association, provided soft .oans to certain golernment-owned estate crop
enterprises (PTPs) in order to rehabilitate existing plantations, factories
and civil works and, when deemed necessary, for further expansion. The Bank
has further assisted GO! in implementing estate crop projects utilizing the
Project Management Unit (PMU) approach, such as the Smallholder Rubber
Development I Project (Credit 984-IND), Smallholder Coconut Development
Project (Loan 1898-IND) and Smallholder Rubber Development Ir Project (Loan
2494-IND).
2.4       Bank assistance to the estate crops subsector in Indonesia has been
directed towards project-specific issues and problems, endemic or systemic
issues and problems of these projects and macroeconomic issues of the estate
crops subsector generally. The Bank has identified issues in these areas



- 14
which have assisted GOI in the formulation of plans and in implementing
solutions.
2.5       The Bank has conducted supervision missions during the Loan period
for estate crop. projects they have assisted and has fielded professionals of
various specialization depending on the stage of development. These
supervision missions have been useful to GOI in providing input to solving
project-specific problems and issues and in incorporating during project
preparation of succeeding projects, certain features to improve implementation
performance. Considering that starting in 1977 all estate crops development
projects assisted by the Bank had a smallholder component, it would have been
helpful if the Bank had adopted a people-oriented approach rathe: than only a
production-oriented approach to these smallholder components. Though the Bank
provided funds for a Sociologist, it would have been very useful if it had
fielded specialists on smallholder organizations/training, food crop agronomy
and smallholder extension and/or provided funds for the hiring of such
specialists by the Executing Agency and/or Nucleus Estate Implementing
Agencies depending on perceived requirements.
2.6       Neverthelesoao  Covernment officials including those of the
implementing agencies concerned and the professionale of the Bank coordinated
closely to improve project performance and project design of succeeding
similar projects. At a later stage in the implementation of these nucleus
estate crop projects the concept of action plans was introduced on a project
basis. This occurred where issues and problems had been identified, and
solutions and target dates were agreed upon by all parties concerned ae a
basis for further actions. This tool helped to improve project
implementation. It resulted in focusing and defining issues and problems in
more specific terms and in developing the skills of formulating specific
solutions; hence, a problem-solving attitude was developed with positive
impact on project implementation.
2.7       Project costs should be more realistic.  Portions of Loan proceeds
have been canceled where GOI has already paid commitment fees. Part of this
cancellation was due to overestimates of costs and others due to
implementation delays.
Borrower's Performance
2.8       All project formulations were performed by the Government with the
assistance of the Bank. The initial field surveys were carried out by the
assigned nucleus estate implementing agencies. This was followed by a
feasibility study conducted by a team of professionals from a consulting firm.
After completion of the feasibility study a team of professionals from the
Bank would then conduct a preappraisal and/or appraisal. At appropriate
stages of project preparation, various government agencies were involved,
whether from the national or local governments, and their concerns taken into
account.
2.9       It would have been useful if during the project preparation the
availability of land, aside from its suitability for the estate crops
concerned, had been completely identified. In certain projects, such as the
NES Sugar Project, the area for the smallholder component was partly changed



- 15 -
NES Sugar Project, the area for the smallholder component was partly changed
because such complete land availability identification was not performed
initially.
2.10      A more thorough assessment of the competence and adequacy of staff
for such a project, especially of the nucleus estate implementing agencies,
should have been performed during project preparation so that the required
training could have been incorporated. The approach on training during the
earlier projects was to provide funds to strengthen the training capabilities
of the LPP. This was funded under the NES I and NES V Projects (Loans 1499-
IND and 2007-IND respectively) as well as this Project. During this period,
specific training for the nucleus estate implementing agencies was provided.
This trend was changed starting with the Tree Crops Processing Project (Loan
3000-IND).
2.11      Areas with significant impact to improve project performance should
also have been identified during project preparation. When competencies were
not available or insufficient, the required consultancy, aside from training,
should have been part of project design. Tn all these aspects, the Bank's
assistance would have been useful.
2.12      At the start of the implementation of these NES and PMU projects, a
learning process had to occur along the lines of coordination among national
and local government agencies concerned. Each government agency's specific
responsibilities and functions were not identified during project preparation;
hence, until experience was gained in coordination, the problems of delays in
implementation were encountered.
2.13      At around the second half of the 1980s, GOI encountered financial
difficulties primarily as a result of falling petroleum prices and, to a
certain extent, to falling prices of primary commodities in the world market.
Delays in actual funding resulted in delays of implementation, especially for
the smallholder component which contributed to lower economic and financial
rates of return. At the start of implementation of projects assisted by the
Bank, unit costs of various physical inputs were on a national level. As
experience was gained, these unit costs for the smallhblder components were
divided into four regions. It would have been more el.:ective if these unit
costs had been project site-specific. To a certain extent, this affected the
quality of performance.
2.14      The present overhead and management fees paid to the nucleus estate
implementing agencies is a percentage only of certain expenditures for the
smallholder component. This does not provide incentives to the nucleus estate
implementing agencies and in certain cases is not sufficient to cover their
costs, especially for projects far from their headquarters.
Borrower's and Bank's Relations
2.15      Notwithstanding deficiencies in both project preparation and
implementation, the Borrower and the Bank exerted their best efforts to
improve performance. Close coordination was established even during the early
period between the Tim Khusus, on the one hand, and the Resident Staff in
Indonesia (RSI' of the Bank and the preappraisal and/or appraisal teams from



- 16 -
Bank headquarters, on the other hand. When major issues and problems arose,
the DOE coordinated with the Bank to arrive at solutions.
2.16      Bank staff at RSI and later on at Headquarters provided the required
assistance to resolve issues and problems and when required even amended Loan
provisions. This close coordination was important in improving project
performance.
2.17      The incomes of the smallholders should be assessed realistically.
Due to the soil and climatic conditLons in the project areas, and rainfed
sugarcane planting in Indonesia being a relatively recent development, the
rendement as projected was not met since the suLtable variety was not
available. Hence, during the latter part of project implementation,
intercropping of food crops in smallholder sugarcane fields was implemented to
raise incomes.
Lessons Learned
2.18      The NES concept is an innovative idea not only for social and
economic development, but also as a commercial vehicle for the nucleus estate
implementing agencies who do not have the financial exposure for the
smallholder component but, through servicing the processing and marketing
requirements of smallholder estate crops produce, share with these
smallholders the financial benefits arising therefrom. The lessons learned
are as follows:
(a) Land availability and suitability should be sufficient during
project preparation to avoid delays in implementation which affect
the economic and financial rates of return;
(b) Manpower capabilities, especially of nucleus estate crops
implementing agencies, have to be reasonably assessed during project
preparation and the required training component including
consultancy services, if necessary, provided in such a loan;
(c) A stable and adequate source of self-replenishing local funds should
be established for the estate crops subsector, including the use of
a multi-year budgeting system wherein unit costs are on a project-
site specific basis;
(d) All functional aspects which have an important impact on project
performance have to be sufficiently assessed at project preparation,
including realistic cost estimates;
,e) The overhead and management fees for the smallholder component to be
paid to the nucleus estate implementing agencies must be adequate.
They should be based on a per unit of physical accomplishment to be
paid after such specific work has been completed and assessed by an
inspection team based on pre-agreed standards of performances;
(f) The roles, responsibilities and functions of each government agency
concerned have to be specifically spelled out and their
interrelationships incorporated in such operational guidelines;



- 17 -
(g) Support services including, among others, research, training and
consultancies should be suffLiLently asmemsed durlng project
preparatlon and should form an Lntegral part of the project  and
(h) Smallholder Lncomes and production should be realistically
estimated.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
(Loan 2344-IND)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit
Title                                                     Year of
Comments                           Purpose                 app /a    Status
1499-IND
NES I              Support 0O0's tree crop program L         78      Closed      PCR Completed 6/88
1804-IND
NES II                                                       78       Closed     PCR completed 6/88
1761-IND
NES III                                                      80      Closed      PCR completed 3/89
1886-IND
NES IV                                                       80      Closed      PCR completed 2/90
2007-IND
NES V                                                        81      Closed      PCR completed 06/91
2126-IND
NES VI                                                      82       Closed      PCR completed 2/91
2232-IND
NES VII                                                     83       Closod      PCR in process
3000-IND
Tree Crops         Improvo oil palm and rubber
Procossing         processing capacity and efficiency        89      Ongoing    Closes 09/30/93
/s Worli Bank fiscal year.
/b   All eight B.nk-financed NES projects have/had an identical purposo -- supporting 001GI
program for the development of the major tree crops (rubber, oil palm and coconuts), using
public estate companies (PTPo) to plant and maintain tree crops up to maturity for poor and
landless project participants



- 20 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Activity                      Planned            Revised              Actual
Identification                 -                   -             Aug./Sept. 1980
Preparation                     -                  -             March 1981
Appraisal mission               -                  -             Sept./Oct. 1982
Loan negotiations               -                  -             June 1983
Board approval                 -                   -             August 1983
Loan signing                    -                  -             Sept. 14, 1983
Loan effectiveness              -                  -             Oct. 28, 1983
Project completion       Dec. 31, 1988       Dec. 31, 1991       Dec. 31, 1991
Loan closing             Dec. 31, 1988       Dec. 31, 1991       Dec. 31, 1991
COMMENTS: (issues raised)
Identification/Preparation
Availability of Suitable Land. The Bank rejected the original site
offered in Kalimantan as unsuitable for sugar production. An alternative site
proposed was deemed acceptable from standpoint of soil quality, water
availability and transport access.
Bank staff were concerned that Indonesia did not have technical
know-how or adequate managerial experience for growing sugar under rainfed
conditions in the outer islands. The project feasibility study recommended a
large consultant technical assistance input to address these issues.
Directorate Generating Estates (DGE) convinced Bank staff to reduce these
original consultant input proposals.
The Bank and GOT agLeed that the cane Xields assumed in the
feasibility study were too high and lower yield assumptions were agreed prior
to appraisal.
DGE feared that delays in factory commissioning would have a
negative effect on the financial viability of the project and urged that the
factory be made a turnkey project with terms in the contract to protect GO!
against undue delays.
ApPraisal
Financing of Processing Facilities. GOl wished to use export
credits to purchase processing facilities, a portion with which the Bank's
management concurred. However, DGE argued strongly that these purchases
should be made through ICB with Bank financing on the grounds that the former
approach would be time consuming and could delay project implementation
seriously. The DGE's recommendations were accepted.



- 21 -
Table 2: Project Timetable (cont.)
A potential issue noted but not pursued at appraisal was the need to
ensure that the project raised the income of smallholders while at the same
time remaining sufficiently attractive to the implementing agency to maintain
its interest in promoting smallholdet development. With hindsight, a closer
examination at this juncture of PTP concerns might have been worthwhile.
The appraisal mission expressed concern about the shortage of
trained PTP personnel to manage and operate the project as well as their other
estates, especially in light of the short duration of the period available in
Pelaihari for both harvesting and land preparation.
Implementation
The availability of land reemerged as an issue during the early
years of implementation. It was discovered on more careful survey that much
of the land earmarked for smallholders was already owned. New land had to be
found and this problem was not resolved until 1987, causing delays in land
development.
Unsatisfactory harvesting and milling performance due to poor field
supervision and harvesting operations and delays in delivery schedules led to
poor cane yields per hectare and low rendement at the factory.
Fall in oil prices led to devaluation, cutback in the GOI
development budget and shortage of counterpart funds which in turn caused some
delays in project implementation in 1986 and 1987.
General direction of the project and management at all levels down
to field operations cutting, burning and field variety trials continued to be
unsatisfactory during much of the period the project was being supervised.
Conversion of debt to smallholder loans was lagging behind
expectations. GOI and PTP management agreed towards the project closing date
to give high priority to smallholder conversion in order to improve incentives
for farmers to achieve higher cane yields.
Loan Closina
The loan closing date was extended by three years to December 31,
1991, to allow for completion of the sugar factory expansion.



- 22 -
Tablo 8: DISBURSEMENT INFORMATION
(USJ million)
Formally
Fiscal       Actual sot.  Profile amt.  revied amt.  Original a;t.  Revised amt.   (a) s           (a) as    (a) as
year        cumulative    cumulative    cumulative    cumulative        cumulative   X of (b)  % of (c)  % of (d)
(a) Ia        (b)            (c)            (d)             (-)         (f)        (g)        (h)
1984
Sep 1988        -                           1-                          0.
Dec 1988        0.20                        8.41         11.10          0.20
Mar 1984        3.41          -             8.08         19.10          2.41
1985
'Up 1984       12.74           1.76         19.01         82.60          7.74
Dec 1984       20.21          8.02         26.29         87.90         14.21           e69         80         58
Mar 19865      26.29          4.22         28.78         47.85         19.29
Jun 19865      27.78          7.08         28.25         57.4          21.78
1988
1op 1985       28.66          9.84         29.68         63.95         24.55
Dec 1986       29.91         12.85         81.08         70.60         25.91            288        96        42
Mar 1988       31.86         16.47         38.31         71.85         27.36
Jun 1986       34.71         18.28         85.58         78.20         80.71
1987
ulp 1966        86.88         21.09         86.42         74.16         81.88
Dec 1986       86.69         28.90         87.28         75.10         34.69            168        98         48
Mar 1987       87.58         26.71         88.856        76.80         86.5
Jun 1987       40.08         29.68         40.48         77.60         88.03
1988
Up 1987        40.78          82.84         42.80         77.95         39.08
Doc 1987       41.81         35.16         45.13         78.40         40.11            119         92        53
Mar 1988       46.43         37.96         48.83         78.80         43.73
Jun 1988       47.17         39.37         48.16         79.20         45.47
1989
Up 1988        48.46         40.77          49.29         79.20         46.75
Dec 1988       49.67         48.59         60.40         79.20         47.87            114         96        68
Mar 1989       50.44         46.40         61.75         79.20         48.74
Jun 1989       62.10         49.21         53.08         79.20         50.40
1990
sp 1989        62.78         62.02         64.06          -            51.08
Dec l989       54.84         54.88         54.22          -            58.14            loo        101
Mar 1990       55.68         57.66         65.61          -            63.98
Jun 1990       57.25         60.48         66.28          -            54.55
1991
rep 1990       58.58         68.27         58.08          -            56.88
Dec 1990       68.96         64.68         60.00          -            67.02             91         98
Mar 1991       80.95         6. 08         62.50          -            80.30
Jun 1991       62.33         67.49         865.00         -            61.30
1992
Mp 1991        64.88         68.89          65.00         -            68.30
Dec 1991       64.93         69.60         70.80          -            84.80             98         92
Apr 1992       69.89         70.30          -             -            68.00
/a  Cancollatioah  US8N.4 million on April 14, 1987, and USSO.9 million at Loan Closing.



- 23 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Actual (see Annex on
Project Implementation
Indicators                   Appraisal estimate           for details)
A.* Planting sugarcane       7,800 ha to be planted       7,138 ha planted for
by smallholders and          smallholders and 4,713
4,600 ha by the              ha for the nucleus
nucleus estate               estate
B.  Developing land          3,000 ha for new             1,667 ha have been
for foodcrops and       settler families,            developed for food
house gardens           adjusted to 2,250 ha         crops
C.  Infrastructure           Construction of small-       2,923 new settle
holder housing (3,000        houses and 853 km of
units) and about 1,000       field roads have been
km of field and vil-         completed
lage roads
D.  Establishing a           Constructing and             Sugar factory expan-
sugar factory           equipping of a 4,000         sion to 5,000 tons to
ton (expandable to           be completed by Decem-
5,000 ton) of cane per      ber 1991
day sugar factory
E.  Providing techni-        - 2,540 staffweeks of        - 489.5 staffweeks of
cal assistance to         personnel training            personnel training
PTP XXIV-XXV
- 294 staffmonths of         - 265.77 staffmonths
advisory services by         of advisory services
expatriates                  by expatriates but
results poor largely
due to management
shortcomings
- Applied research           - Results
disappointing
F. Production targets
-Cane yield (mt/ha)         80                           54.5
NES                        70                           51.3
Smallholders
-Sucrose rendement(%)       8.5                          5.68
NES                        8.5                          5.53
Smallholders
Total Sugar production
(mt),(1983-90)              273,000                      92,402
inclusive



- 24 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate               Actual
Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign Total
Nucleus estate component         29.2  47.9   77.1           42.7  31.1  73.8
Smallholder component             7.6   9.6   17.2           15.1  12.7  27.8
Program support                   2.0  10.0   12.0            0.1   5.2   5.3
Contingencies                    10.9  13.0   23.9            0.0   0.0   0.0
Total Project Costs         49.7  80.5  130.2           57.9  49.0 106.9
B. Project Financing
(USS million)
Planned                Actual
IBRD                                      79.2                   70.3
MOF                                       32.4                   27.1
PTP                                        2.0                    2.0
Local Government                          16.6                    7.5
Total                              130.2                  106.9



- 25 -
Table 6:  ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(Percent)
Economic rate of return                           Financial rate of return
Improved                                         Improved
SAR         PCR         management               SAR         PCR          management
Overall  project              16       -5.9                5.1                  13          2                7.5
Economic Variables                                 Appraisal                              PCR
1.  Prices                                      1983 Constant                      1991 Constant
2.   Exchange  rate:   US$l                           Rp  970                         Rp  1,901
Underlying Assumptions
1.  The benefit period of the project extends from 1983 to 2007.
2.   Starting  in  1992,  no more  capital  is to  be  invested.
3.  The price of sugar increases by 7.3 percent for 1992 and 1993, based on
past average price increases a year.
4.  Inflation rate estimated at 8 percent a year for the projection of costs
for 1992 and 1993.
5.  The nonsugar income is estimated to increase by 10 percent a year for 1992
and 1993.
6.  From 1994 on, benefits and operating costb are constant.
7.  "Improved Management" implies an increase in cane yield per hectare to 65
metric tons and in sucrose rendement to 6.25 percent on 10,850 ha, started
in 1994.
T&619 gb: PROFZT AN LOSS SrAT8WT
(U11 miMoin)
1984 IA    196       1938       1Q87        1986       19119      1990     1991 IA    Tot l
1"Usa aIholder                     0.00     378.82  1,071.60   2,578.64    4 570.08   6 746.9   9 022.e9  11 77.62  36 143.07
From nucleus estate               0.00   2.310.17  8,000.23   3,099.69    4,478.87   5S630.E0   8.730.09 1S,048.12  48,190.37
Total Sales                    2M    2. ON,Z99l  1JILI   L .3          903Z   13      1.8    Z 17 -780 LJ        86.fl8.
£;n  asper.**^   1,823.91   5,S72.30  6,278.48   8,989.43   12,249.94  11,60.93  14,332.77  17,616.29  78.541.0S
(1ncl. cost of j old.
production, costte of soles.
etc.
O;sbu;rsd to farmers              0.00      98.43    22:.47     56S.60      984.26     770.56   1.208.87  2,412.01   6,231.92
IQWLLgL2fl91 F_7L7   LE4A                                      S       3,20-.2  12ML851L 15J-20 l2Jana   84 72.6
CrJa Prof it(Loss)         fl-62Jln11 IZJ.l.Za ( LIJ   £L4l1.ZQ           62X£ .1IL 2I   Onl  L2.2Z    8795.4S  LLMLD.3
Other Income                        0.00       0.00  1,017.60     106.27    1,168.37   1,364.57    806.34    147.64   4,712.99
Otl5?i esencres  o~ o,0.00                  4.66    961.41   6,556.12    7,429.20   1.114.56   2,783.16  6,771.84  28,627.96
Ineluding molse.
I Including aaliholder areas.
A tual up to July 31, 1991 plus etiasted August to December 1991.
Profit and Los Statement started in 1968.



- 26 -
Tablk 7:  REVIEW OF LOAM  COV84AN
Current
Type of   etatueCuen
Agre-ment section            covenant   code oDOeription of covenant                                             covenant *tstui  description
Ln. Art. 3.01(b)           Ft        2      Borrower to make a- a;lable to PTP 0(IV-XXV loan funde and  Completed.
local fund- in accordance with Loan Agreement Schedule S.
Ln. Art. 3.01(d)           F?        2      Carry out project in accordance with organization.              R.leaee of fund.  as up to
mang ement and imp lementation arrangementsa in Schedule 8.  date.
Eneure funds for Part A oroject provided and recovered
provie;ons of Section 3 .03(e) end Schedule 7.
Ln. Art. 3.01(d)(ii)       F2        2      Borrower to onaure that th. fund.pfor Part A (ama1lhold*r  Relemama of fund- is up to
development1 of the project are  provided in accordance    date.
Lt. Art. 3.02              ml        6      Borrower to cause experts  eatisfactory to the bank to be   Completed.
employed.
Ln. Art. 3.03(a)           F3        3      Borrower to cause StR  to enter into iailholder credit          Credit *gre_ments for 6S7
agremsentS satiefactory to the lank,                           faormer have been completed.
Agreed action program intend
to *cc,lerte process.
Ln. Art. 3.03(b)           I         6      DOE to *nter into eeilholder development agreement with   Completed.
PTP XXIV-XXV.
L. Art. 3.04              Ms        2      0OE to erspar  annual work pr° greem and budgets for            In compliance.
eubmiesion to BAPPENAS and MO.
Ln. Art. 3.06(b)           F4        2      Adequate records of project pro,re.. and coets to be            In compliance.
maintained.
Ln. Art. 3.06(d)           62        a      Borrower to prepere a report an the project promptly            00! hwe commenced tak.
after (cloming) date.
Ln. Art. 3.07              T2        2      Borrowor to acquire all land required for this project.    Cowr ted.
Ln. Art. 3.08              f6        2      The as"llholder*' share for sugar and mola"e  produced   0Dlays due to lack of
from their cane  to be datermined in accordance with           viability Of auger operations;
principle. met out.                                            eoellIholders are protected.
Ln. Art. 3.09              Ti        2      Improve the bridgeo and road from Benjarmatin to                Zn comlfiance.
Pelaihari.
Ln. Art. 3.10            0mt         2      No new agricultural activities allowed in project are-.    In co pliane.
which may be prejudicial to project.
Ln. Art. 3.11              Ml        6      An overall ugaer roearch program  to be prepared.              Completed.
Ln. Art. 3.12              ml        2      SRI to furnish draft TRI program (appropriate for project  In compliance.
eugercanea crop cycle) to Sn  by  I2/311.  Prepare final
program by 12/31/84.
I.n. Art. 3.14             I         3      Provincial government of East Kalimantan to expand             Completed. but quality need.
aervice  *or health, education snd foodcroo extension to   improvement.
project aal Iholder..
tit. Art. 4.02(a)         MI         2      Record, adequate to reflect the perations  resources end  Complied with.
*vtpenditurwa of the project. PITP XXIV-l0XV and other
agenes -.
Ln. Art. 4.07              ml        2      Accei and other road. to b- msintained in accordance            In compliance.
with sound engineering practices.
Ln. Art. 4.0              F6        2      PTP XXZV-XV to maintain a ratio of long-term debt to            In compliance.
equity of not more than SO:8.-O
Ln. Art. 4.08(a)           F5        6
L.n  Art. 4.08(b)          TI        2      Unti  completion of project Part D. FPTP XXV-)OYV to           rn copnlionce.  Factory
consulIt Bank before expanding factory capacity under Part  expansion now nepceasary and
3 of project and before undertaking any new development    undeor construction.
Lexceding Rp 1.8 billion.
Ln. Art. 4.03(c)           F4        2      Borrower to review  TP cash flow annually a- controll PTP  In compliance.
distribution of dividends so as not to impair ability to
carry out project.
Sch. 1. Para. 4            Fl        2      Subsidiary loan Utreeent and esalIholder development            In complince.
agreemnt aigned.
Status Codes                            Covenant Trpe Codes
1   U Unavailable                       Institutional      I   Creote/revi;sed/update.organiations; improvement m_nagent * MIS; agreeinmt
2   r In cowplionce                                            between  r *it  ag-nciee
3 * Partly complied                     Managerial        m l   Smupseision of implementation (plan/action/reporting including procurement
4 mNot in coFPtene                                             action  develog accounting system)
S cTo be  caompldianet                                    M2  Adeauaie training prrogrm
6 e No  :onver relvant                                    F3   Work proorsm/budgit prepared
7 * To be amnded                        Financiafl        F    Signing of eubsidiery agroaeent
8   Not yet due.                                          P2 * Rates of return
F3 m  Dtit recovery and interest rates
F4 mSelf-financing ratio
FS D ebtjequity ratio; debt aervice ratio
F6  Pricing of product.
F? m Provision of loctl funds
FS  Prepare aector investment program
F9 m Level of iutstanding aprears
FIO a Aest revaluation depreciation
Technical         TI m Construction stan iarde
72 m Lnd acquisition and mapping
T3   Site see tion
T4   Detailed engineering d
7S aEure OhM plan and funding
T6 O Environment
Others           OTH m Others



- 27 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (staff-weeks)
Stage of project cycle                                     Planned           Revised           Actual
Through appraisal                                             n.a.             n.a.             89.5
Appraisal through Board approval                              n.a.              n.a.              6.9
Board approval through effectiveness                          n.a.             n.a.              n.a.
Supervision                                                   n.a.            95.1              96.5
PCR                                                           5.0             15.0              15.0
Total                                                                                   208.0
B. Misslons
Stage of                           No. of    Days In   Specializations   Porformance       Type of
project cycle             Month/yr   persons   field La   represented /b     status /e    problems /d
Appraisal              Sep/Oct 82       8
Supervision 1            Sep   84       3          14        AE, AG, EC           2            M, D
Supervision 2            Jun   85       2           7          AE, AG             2            M, D
Supervision 3            Mar   87       2        n.a.          AE, AG             1             U
(Mid-term Roview)
Supervision 4            Oct   87       2           3          AE, AG             2            F, M
Supervision 6            Jun   88       2           6          AE, AG             2            M, D
Supervision 6            Oct   88       1           5            AE               2            U, D
Supervision 7            Apr   89       2          11          AE, AG             3            M, D
Supervision 8            Doe   89       2           6          AE, AG             1            M, 0
Supervision 9          Apr/May 90       2           7          AE, AG             1            M, F
Supervision 10           Nov   90       2          13          AE, AG             2            M, D
PCR/FINAL SPN            Aug   91       3          20         CR,FA,AG            3             M
/a    PCR mission setimatoe  based on Bank's project files.
Specialization:  AE = Agricultural Economist; ES = Enginoer; AG a Agriculturalist.
Performance Rating:  1 = Problem-froe  or minor problems; 2 a moderate problems; 3 = major
problem.
/d     Types of problems:  F   F financial; M = Managerial; D = Development.
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staffing inputs, broken down by each stage of
project cycle.



ANNEX
- 29 -                            (Page 1 of 5)
ANNEX: Project IZpl.at.atlon D-ta Il
Table 1: FIELD DEVELOPMENT AND HARVESTING SCHEDULE
1983   1904   1985    198l    1987    1988    1909    1990    1991
Cans planted (cumulative ha)
Nucleus estate developmnt
SAR                          1,300 8,100  4,600  4,600  4,600  4,600   4,000   4,600   4,600
Actual                         730  2,242   8,688   8,700   8,974   4,129   4,305   4,713   4,713
Actual/SAR                    6OX    72X    77X    81X        81X    92S     94X    10X    102X
Smallheldor development
SAR                           200  1,800  2,900   6,700   7,800   7,800   7,800   7,800   7,800
Actual                         86    350  1,000   2,464   3,987   6,746   6,160   7,138   7,138
Actual/SAR                    48X    27X    34X    43X       61X     74%    821   91.5X   91.6X
Houses built (cumulative)
SAR                                            266   1,646   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000
Actual                                         180   1,227   2,007   2,689   2,709   2,894   2,894
Actual/SAR                                     68X     74X     67x     86X     901   96.56   96.6X
Land for houses (cumulative)
SAR                                                                    750      760     760     760
Actual                                                                 647     877   723.5  723.5
Actual/SAR                                                              89X     9oX  96.SX   96.5X
Land for fooderops (cumulative)
SAR                                                                   2,250   2,260   2,260   2,260
Actual                                                                1,276   1,414   1,5688  1,66
Actual/SAR                                                              67X     671   7068X   74.1X
Sugar produced (tons)
SAR                                          23,000  37,000  62,000  63,000  64,000  64,000  54,000
Actual                                        6,160  12,725  18,843  16,018  19,174  24,462  32,138
Actual/SAR                                      27X    34X      27X    380     38X   45.2X   59.5X



ANNEX
- 30-                                        Page 2 of 5)
ANNEX:  Project Ilplentation Detail
Tklis 2' KEY MIOCAT0S OP PROJE?r AND FACrORY PA1CEI
188        1988        1987        1986         1989        1990 1991 (eat.)
Prpo,ct Perfo,wf,eec
Crop poriod (mm/dd)                      07/18-10/01 07/18-10/31 07/02-10/13 06/22-12/2S 06/08-11/08 00/06-11/08  06/07-a/ol
Crop day.                                         77         104          104         187         118          153         148
Totci cano crushed (her'voted),
ton-                                       108.483      202,238     218,082   390,5t7.S   372,981.3   485654.2   s78.520.0
Netare- harveated
Nucleus ostato                               1,994      3,143.6     3,438.1     8,874.6      3.305.1     3 695.2     4.350.1
Sliholdere                                     360       888.6      2,417.1     6,198.6      5,278.8     5,685.6      6,680.0
12A                                     2ati      4,000.2   s.D       ss3.2  S .m                  9"pA        11 02 .1Q
Average yield (tons/be)
Nucle st ;tettt                               11.3         51.8       38.2         48.2        4".1 04.7                54.5
Similholdera                                  40.1         41.1        38.9        4S.?         43.0        80.2        81.3
Rendoment (U)
Nucl.ua *ot-ta                                5.96         8.29       S.2         4.03         8.04        5.02        8.68
Sal Iholdera                                  8.30        8.41         8.41        4.08         5.23        5.04        8.83
TotalL2                                              L2A         gm&                                               LII &
Cryta I /he
Nucleus .*tot-                                2.67         3.20        2.84        1.94         2.3S        2.74        3.04
Sal Iholder.                                  2.88         3.03        2.31        1.77         2.25        2.53        2.84
Factor, Performance
Crushine rate (TCD)
Overall                                    1,344.?      1,970.4     2,110.0     2,188.8      3,173.8     3,198.7     5,934.0
EIcluding *tap.                            2,987.8      3.253.8     3,782.8     3e915.7      3,679.8     3,785.3     4,720.8
Total hours available                        1,847.0      2,471.3     2,480.2     4,476.0      2,820.3     3,653.0     3,530.1
Milling hour*                                  831.2      1.498.8     1,383.7     2,442.6      2,433.0     3,103.8     2,942.7
Down time                                    1,015.8        974.8     1,096.8     2,033.4        387.3       549.2       587.4
Factory. S of total                             21.5        18.41       11.95        7.52        6.92         8.24        1S.0
Fialda, S of total                              33.5        21.4        30.26       87.91        5.80         9.48         5.0
Total auger production (tons)                6,160.3    12,728.5    13,834.0    18,094.3    19,312.8    24,484.2    82,221.3
Total molaaa,a production (tons)             S.472.1    10,687.4    13,227.0      18,35.6    18.861.?    30,513.2    31,107.0
Malol.a as  of cane                             5.29        5.24         6.07        4.70        S.08         6.28        8.38
Pal T cone (overall)                            9.11        9.27         3.20        6.54        7.42         7.69        8.00
R.ndent (overall)                               6.01        6.25         8.25        4.04        8.18         5.08        8.86
Overall recovery ()                              8.o        87.4         07.9        81.6        69.4        8.41        69.38



ANNEX
-31 -                                           (Page 3 of 5)
: PrjejI mlementation Details
TmIla 9    RmSICAL tCLBEPT ATION 0O  PROJWV ID eASLCrE
Ap e lrail   ta.                 Actual up to
18) La                       July 1991 La
Office (unit)                                                                                                                    3 00
WoSrkhZ .aslerag. (unit)                                                                                                         2.00
Storage (unit)                                                                                                                   9 00
auat hous-  (unit)                                                                                                               1.00
Staff houming (unit)                                                 La                                                        104 00
Nonataff housin9 (unit)                                                                         8_1.00
Polyclini- (unt)                                                                                                               o'2.00
Coa_unity build ing (unIt)                                                                                                       6.00
Others  u hou                                                                                                                   11.00
SSA!11:Wf.P9      it)                                                                    3.000.00                       2.92300
Settlr hou   raha. (unit)                                                                                                        3 00  3 00
House lots (ha)                                                                                                                694.14
Fooder   re  (h)                                                                              .000.00                             4
Ald & production roads (he)                                                                  1.00000                           on. i1
Bridgee (unit)                                                     )4k                                                           3.0:
Culv*rte (unit)                                                                                                                .S 00
Water euplp r
Wells (unit)                                                                                 iw000                         2.681.00
Earth  asea  aunit)                                              ).                                                         ' 22.00
C.oaa. nt.. R eaiangl  a 0     caaea_n
Now roado. mci c l ce,:... ro. (ka)                                                            IN000                           115. d
Upgeading aceese r1ad-  (ha)                                                                    40°00                           68.31
U.radint village roeds (ha)                                                                                                     20.20
*r. doe- (a)                                                         3a1 J3 O.O
Culverts (unit)                                                    )180.00
Regional coeaunity facilitia1t
,e,I th center (unit)                                                                                                         I100
crnch health center (unit)                                                                                                     4 4.00
Polyclien (unit)                                                                                                               7  7.00
P"areca l (un t: _                                                                                                             6.00
Community center (unit)                                                                                                        6.00
Village offices (unit)                                                                                                         3.00
La          Units not itemized.  It was planned to accodate the estate pereonnel  including seasonal workers. estimated to amount to
2.300.
Not specified in tho SAN.
Additional invetents not planned for 1991.



ANNEX
-32 -                                            (Page 4 of 5)
sAm=    Project tZ.leaatati.e  Detail.
Zg .j-4:  Peruannel Training
____________-------          ----ATA---UL----------------- *                                 AR-
No: of    Staff                                                                     No           Statt
Personnel                    treeingas   *eee        Trainine aubijct              Source inatitutiein           trainee.      weak.
Staff Traininn
- Ado A Fact Staff                 31        122   Nanagaaent. financiel,           LPP  UIniv  6U(I  In-             48          726
technical, proc ,aing eta.    houe  training tHO
- Agric A Mach Staff               48         72   manage   t. land clearing.        PP1 GM0  In-hae                  49          770
*stana  n.ion  tet.             tira'ning
Subtotal                      76        I"4                                                                      93         1496
Non-sttff Training
- Fact. non-staff                   9         18   Fact. .anagea-ntt                UPP.  Ul. in-hoa                  68          GIs
.ach. /geoe. *te.
- Agric & Mech non-ataff          100        200   Agronoy etc.                     UPP                               as          332
Subtotal                     109        218                                                                     128          g0m
0ur..ua- tr~;ine for               26         78   Comparative study                Sugar c any outside               11           94
Rgrgect  taf fn4onie (Seline.
Amierc  Sudan.
Nouritiu;. Au.trali1
TotaI Proieet Traininr                      24M



ANNEX
-33-                                           (Page S of 5)
Annex:  Project Implemntation Dotails
Table 6: Advisory Services
N    Post                                      1984      1Q88     1986     1987      1Q88       1Q89     1990       TOTAL
--LU      son       LU            G.     E .1    G.M       41U1   ____ -
1    Proiect Coordimator            Ex.st          9       12       10         0        8.8        9      S 5       49
2.   Field Development              Sxpat          9       12         1        0          a     7.7S         0        32.75
Enmineer                      Locl           9e      12         7        0          0         0        0       28
S.   A ronoml t                     Ex*9                   12        2         O          O        O         O      23 
4.   Suallholder Extention          Expat          a        O         0        0       2.7S        0         0        17.76
Specialist                    Local          4        12        7        0          0         0        0       23
S.   Civil Eninseer                 Expst          9       12         1        0          0        0         0      22
Local         9        12        6        0          0         0        0       27
S.   Agric Mach Engineer            Expct          0       12         0        a          0        0         0      21
_____________________  Local          0       12        3L              0         0      0    0         15
7.   Apric Workahop Spoc            Expat          0        7        0         0          0        0         0       7
.   Harvest A Transport             Espat          0        S        0.        0          3     8.25         0        14.25
Coordinator                   Loal           0        S         S        0          0         0        0        8
9.   Sr. Factory Engineer           Expst          9       12        2         7          0        0         0      S0
Local         0        11        3        S          0         0        0       19
10.   Contract. Enrineer             ESpt                             0         0          0        0         0      13
11.   Electrical Engineer            Local          7        a        0         0          0        0         0      1S
12.   Inmtruentat,on Spoe            Expet          0        S        0         0          0        0         0       5
Local         0         5        0        0          0         0        0        S
13.   Boller A Steam Soec            Expat          0        6             0   O           O        O         O       a
14.   Proco.s Technologist              a0                   a        0         0          0        0         0       3
_____________ ________  LOcL          0         7        0        0          0         0        0        7
18.   Financial Controller           Expat          9       12        1         0          0        0         0      22
Local         0         4        8        0          0         0        0        7
TOTAL                                            10      218        49       12      12.28       23       3.S       419.75'
Actua           ami
Expatriates     268.77..         294..
Local            18. 98S           -a
~3g:  * -. U Staff Months



3016E                    11430'                                             0                                                                  D445'  CDEMBER1982
3045'                    Tabanjo               *'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baiab
INDONESIA 2 
30V~?                                                                                       I                                               3\ 0%
I.ianganganb           25angkal                                  
Ranga n v       ~~~~~ny kn
ati -        f     Jlaan                                        _,
_4tl008                            (                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I NDONESI A              4000
PELAIHARI NES SUGAR PROJECT
SOUTH KALIMANs AN
rer       dt                                                                                         -    PRIMARY ROADS (PROPOSED OR REHABILITATED)
*      nwnftIAW                                                                                      0    PROPOSED VILLAGE SITES
C          LA   PROPOSED FPATORY SITE
r .o                                                                                           : .  -  L----]SUITABLE CA JE LAND
0- #_a0.                                                                     -                             MARGINA:. CANE LAND
AD0 7S           114°30                                                                   --  -   NUCLEUS ES'ATE BOUNDARY
_ POILIflINO             -----SMALLHOLDER BLOCK BOUNDARIES
.datAvnIA        Rusel0    C t"IUIerlsc-t                   _                                      ELEVATIONS IN METERS
,          S~~~.IA IAY f-                                                                            1 00-500
.O~NSIII0fl   -,                                                                                    5 01-1000
KILOMETERS   S_ 1_0 1_                                       ABOVE 1000
5Dun   or                 _   MILES   I             1                                                                                4016-
0            6            10                       EXISTING ROADS
RIVERS
_---   IINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
114°045'                                       IIEhOO'



