Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4405-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECI
June 27, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          =  Rupiah (Rp) 970
Rp 100         =  US$0.10
Rp 1,000,000  =  US$1,031
(Rupiah exchange rates are floating, based on a basket of currencies.)
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
PTP XXIV-XXV: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.20 pounds
1 ton (t) = 1,000 kg                     =  0.98 long ton
2204.59 pounds
1 millimeter (mm)                        =  0.039 inch
1 meter (m) = 39.37 inches = 3.28 feet =  1.09 yards
1 kilometer                              =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2               =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha        =  0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m3)                       =  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                              =  0.26 US gallon
1 hectoliter (hl)                        =  2642 US gallons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
AARD     -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPEDA  -  Badan Perencana Pembangunan Daerah (Provincial Development
Planning Agency)
BAPPENAS - Badan Perencana Pembangunan Nasional (National Development
Planning Agency)
BI       -  Bank Indonesia (Indonesian Central Bank)
BIMAS    -  Bimbingan Masal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan (Mass Guidance Program
for Self Sufficiency in Foodstuffs)
BLKI     -  Balai Latihan Kejuruan Industri (Training Office for Industrial
Technicians)
BP3G     -  Balai Penyelidikan Perusahaan Perkebunan Gula (Sugar Research
Institute - Pasuruan)
BRI      -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BULOG    -  Badan Urusan Logistik (National Food Stock Authority - rice,
sugar, etc., -procurement and distribution)
DGE      -  Directorate General of Estates
DGFC     -  Directorate General of Food Crops
HGU      -  Hak Guna Usaha (the right or permit to use land for a specific
purpose for a maximum of 25 years)
GOI      -  Government of Indonesia
IIB      -  Institute for Instrumentation (Bandung)
JSMB     -  Joint Sugar Marketing Bureau (Kantor Administrasi Pemasaran
Bersama Gula)
JSPU     -  Joint Sugar Project Unit (Kantor Proyek Gula Bersama)
KAPB     -  Kantor Administrasi Pemasaran Bersama Gula (Joint Sugar
Marketing Bureau)
KPGB     -  Kantor Proyek Gula Bersama (Joint Sugar Project Unit)
KUD      -  Koperasi Unit Desa (Village Cooperative Unit)
LPP      -  Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan (Estate Training Institute)
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
PCC      -  Provincial Coordinating Committee
PNP      -  Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (State-Owned Estate Enterprise)
PPIG     -  Proyek Pengembangan Industri Gula (Office for Development of
the Sugar Industry)
PTP      -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State Owned Estate Enterprise
with Limited Liability)
PUSDIKTOP- Pusat Pendidihan Topograpi (Center For Topographic Training)
PUSKUD   -  Pusat Koperasi Unit Desa (Central Services for Village
Cooperative Units)
SBPN     -  Staf Bina Perusahaan Negara (Support Staff State-Owned Estates)
TKPLN    - Team Khusus Proyek Kerjasama Luar Negeri (Special Team for
Cooperation with Foreign Lending Agencies)
TRI      -  Tebu Rakyat Intensifikasi (program to intensify smallholder cane
production)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND                                                          1
A.  The Agricultural Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
B.  The Sugar Subsector  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
C.  Project Background ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
II.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                    5
A.  Location and General Description . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
B. Population, Present Land Use and Existing
Infrastructure ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
III.  THE PROJECT                                                         7
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
B.  Project Content...                            . . .             8
(a) Nucleus Estate Development (PTP XXIV-XXV)  . . . . .        8
(b) Smallholder Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
(c) Regional Infrastructure and Services . . . . . . . .        8
(d) Technical Assistance and Program Support . . . . . .        9
C.  Implementation Schedule .      .     .    .     .     . .      12
D.  Cost Estimates . . . . .              .      .      .      .   13
E.  Financing ..               .       .       ...   13
Nucleus Estate ..             .      .     .      .      .   13
Smallholder ..              .      .      .      .      .   16
Interest Rates ..             .      .     .      .      .   16
F.    Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
G.  Disbursements  . . . .  ..                  .      .       .   18
H.  Accounts and Audits .       .     .     .      .     .     .  19
I.  Environmental Factors .      .     .     .     .     .     .  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia
in September-October 1982. Mission members included Gerardo H. Soto
(Mission Leader), Jean-Pierre Baudelaire, and Mark E. Cackler (World Bank),
Peter G. Nelson, F. J. Blanchard, and A.L.J. Martin (Consultants).



Page No.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                         20
A.  Institutional Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        20
(a)  The Sugar Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
(b)  Other Agencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
(c)  Bank Rakyat Indonesia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
B.  Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
(a)    General  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
(b)  PTP XXIV-XXV  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
(c)  South Kalimantan Provincial Government  . . . . . .        26
(d)  Provincial Coordinating Committee . . . . . . . . .        26
(e)  Agricultural Support Services for Smallholders  . .        27
(f)  Operation and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
(g)  Project Training Research   . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
V.  SUGARCANE PRODUCTION, TRANSPORT, PROCESSING AND MARKETING           29
A. Sugarcane Production ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
B.  Cane Harvesting and Transport  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
C.  Sugar Processing ... .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
D.    Marketing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
E.  Prices ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                   35
A. General Benefits ... .  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
B.  Financial Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        36
C. Smallholder Incomes .37
D.  Economic Results ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  38
E.  Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        40
VII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                         40
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Costs
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
Table 2: Total Project Capital Costs: Project
Component by Time
Table 3: Project Operating Costs
Table 4: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 2: Technical Assistance, Training and Research
Table 1: Consultancy Services
Table 2: Personnel Training



- iii -
Annexes con't.
Annex 3: Agricultural Operations
Table 1: Land Development Schedule
Table 2: Sugarcane Harvesting Schedule
Annex  4: Prices
Table 1: Historical and Projected Spot Prices
of Internationally Traded Sugar
Table 2: Derivation of Sugar Economic Prices
Table 3: Historical and Projected prices of
Exported Indonesian Molasses
Table 4: Derivation of Molasses Economic Prices
Annex  5: PTP XXIV-XXV Financial Results
Table 1: Summary of PTP XXIV-XXV Financial
Results
Table 2: Year End Balance Sheet
Table 3: Year-end Profit and Loss Statement
Table 4: Project Income Statement and Cash Flow
Table 5: Financial Costs and Benefits for
PTP XXIV-XXV
Table 6: PTP XXIV-XXV Sugarcane and Sugar Production
Annex  6: Smallholder Credit Arrangements
Table 1: New Settler Sugarcane Farm Model
Table 2: Smallholder Family Budgets at Full
Development
Annex 7: Economic Results
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Project
Annex 8: Schedule of Early Events
Annex 9: Related Documents and Data in the Project File
Charts
1. Institutional Structure of the Sugar Subsector
2. Project Organization
3. Sketch of Factory Area
4. Project Implementation Schedule
Map:  IBRD 16814






I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01       Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Indonesian economy,
though its share of GDP declined from 40% in 1968 to 24% in 1982. After
petroleum, agriculture is Indonesia's principal source of export revenue,
contributing about 40% of the total, mainly from rubber, palm products,
forest products and tea. It is by far the largest employer, accounting for
55% of the work force. Its past rate of growth - 4% p.a. for 1971-81 - has
been unusually good by international standards.
1.02       Some 17 million smallholders, with an average 1 ha each, produce
subsistence and cash crops. Some 1,800 estates, many publicly owned and
managed, occupy 2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, palm products, tea,
coconut, tobacco and sugar. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is attempting
to encourage private involvement in the plantation sector, especially by
smallholders.
1.03       GOI's objectives for the rural sector are to:
(a)  Create productive employment and raise incomes of the rural poor.
(b)  Increase domestic food supply, to keep pace with rising demand
and reduce dependence on exports.
(c)  Expand agricultural exports, particularly those from smallholder
production.
B. The Sugar Subsector
1.04       Until the Depression of the 1930s, Indonesia was the world's
largest exporter of sugar, mainly from Java, which still contributes more
than 95% of production. Annual output was three million tons and exports
more than two million tons. At the end of World War II, many pre-war facto-
ries were irreparable and sugar lands were either badly neglected or given
over to other food crops. Rehabilitation was slow and since 1966
consumption has exceeded domestic production.
1.05       Recognizing Indonesia's comparative advantage in sugar production,
GOI has carried out a major program of factory rehabilitation and construc-
tion.  During the 1970s, seven new factories were built, three outside Java.
Domestic production made impressive gains from a low point of 610 thousand
tons in 1966, reaching current production levels of 1.3 million tons in
1979. Imports nevertheless continued, sharply increasing in 1977 and 1978
and still remaining at a high level, exceeding 700,000 tons in 1982.



-2-
1.06      The total number of factories on Java is now 56.  This includes
seven private factories and a new Government factory in Jatitujuh (West Java)
which was officially opened in September 1980. The remainder is grouped in
six PNP/PTPs, namely PNP XIV (West Java), PNP XV and XVI (Central Java),
PNP XX, PTP XXI/XXII and XXIV/XXV (East Java).  The latter two account for
more than 40% of Indonesia-s present sugar production. PTP XXIV-XXV was
assisted by an ADB credit for rehabilitation of some of its sugar factories
(para. 1.10).
1.07      Until a few years ago, the Javanese sugar industry had several
unique features which continue in a diluted form: cane cultivation was done
by the estates which operated the factories, with no smallholder participa-
tion, and rainfed cane cultivation and ratooning were negligible. Under this
system, sugar factories rented about 1/3 of the sawah land in their concession
areas for cane cultivation for a period of up to 20 months. This arrangement
required a very labor-intensive variation of the traditional Reynoso cultiva-
tion system to permit the alternation from padi to sugarcane and back. In
1975 the decision was made to start replacing this with a system under which
groups of smallholders work their own land and organize all aspects of cane
cultivation including harvesting and transport. This is complemented by a
Sugarcane Smallholder Intensification Program (TRI) under which Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) provides a credit package to cover costs of inputs and living
expenses, and by an output sharing formula for sugar between the factory and
the smallholders. One distinguishing feature of the TRI program is the
virtual absence of defaults, due to the credit system under which repayments
are deducted from the smallholders share by the factory.
1.08      Implementation of the new arrangements is proceeding steadily, and
in 1979 more than 100,000 ha, or 65% of the Javanese cane area, were culti-
vated by smallholders. At the same time, dryland is used increasingly for
cane cultivation, and ratooning is becoming more frequent, accounting for 33%
and 29%, respectively, of the total Javanese cane area. Labor scarcity in
some rural areas of Java and the inferior competitive position of sugarcane
vis-a-vis continuous padi cropping in irrigated areas work against irrigated
cane cultivation in general and the padi - cane - padi rotation in particular.
However, a few estates are presently carrying out intercropping experiments
with legumes to increase overall revenues. Population growth and increasing
per capita consumption are expected to push total domestic demand for centri-
fugal sugar beyond the three million ton-mark before 1990. This development
makes an expansion of sugarcane cultivation outside Java indispensable.
Government Plans and Policies
1.09      GOI has been aware of this necessity for a long time and has carried
out sugarcane trials and feasibility studies in various locations on Sumatra,
Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Timor. GOI announced in 1981 plans to increase
sugarcane areas and construct 18 new factories of 4,000 tons of cane per day
(TCD) capacity each between 1984 and 1986. Because of the lack of suitable
land and the competition with rice and other crops in Java described in para.
1.08, and also because of the general policy of developing the Other Islands,
most of these new mills would have been outside of Java. The Bank, wishing to



- 3 -
assist the Government in the sound planning and implementation of this
ambitious program, provided advisory services to the then responsible agency
(SBPN) with ;.nds available from an ongoing NES project (Loans 2007-IND and
2126-IND). In late 1982, resource constraints caused the program to be
reduced. GOI now formally plans to go ahead with only nine or ten
factories, with the rest delayed, cancelled or turned into joint ventures.
In addition, land constraints in some of the approved projects have resulted
in factory capacity being lowered to 3,000 TCD. While it had been hoped
that the original sugar development program for the Other Islands would
satisfy Indonesia's sugar deficit by the end of the decade, the total
production from the factories left in the program would equal less than 50%
of present sugar imports. The domestic market for sugar produced by the
proposed project would therefore be ensured.
The Bank's Role
1.10      Bank support for Indonesia-s sugar industry dates back to the
early 70's and led to the First Sugar Project (Credit 405-IND in the amount
of US$50 million) in 1973. The project included construction of a new sugar
factory at Pesantren (East Java); major rehabilitation of the Sragi (Central
Java) and Gempolkrep (East Java) factories; assistance to the Indonesian
Sugar Experiment Station (BP3G) at Pasuruan (East Java); and a study of the
feasibility of expanding sugar production outside Java. The original pro-
ject concept foresaw major and minor rehabilitation of additional Javanese
sugar factories, but rapid price increases required a reduction in project
scope. A PCR on the sugar rehabilitation project concluded that: (a)
additional investments in the sugar industry were justified; (b) a credit
scheme involving sugarcane smallholders is viable given sufficient price
incentives; (c) sugar production responds well to modernization of
factories, and (d) sugar research in Indonesia needs to be strengthened.
All these conclusions are applicable to the proposed sugar program in the
Other Islands. A second sugar project in Java was prepared and appraised,
but project processing was discontinued because of the unfavorable price
development of sugar vis-a-vis rice, and of Indonesia's increasing degree of
import dependence on rice. Meanwhile, however, the Bank has continued to
support the long-term strategy of switching from irrigated to rainfed
sugarcane production and of regional diversification of cane growing. It
has supported a number of feasibility studies for potential sugarcane areas
outside Java, including Pelaihari (South Kalimantan), a site which is the
subject of this Appraisal Report.
1.11      In addition, the Bank has been supporting the nucleus estate and
smallholder project concept through a series of projects in the tree crop
sector: NES I (Loan 1499-IND); NES II (Loan 1604-IND); NES III (Loan 1751-
IND), NES IV (Loan 1835-IND), NES V (Loan 2007-IND), NES VI (Loan 2136-IND)
and NES VII (Loan 2232-IND). Until lately, NES project implementation has
been satisfactory. However, the ambitious planting targets given to PTPs
under the nonr-NES programs, have started straining the PTPs' implementation
capacity as reflected in poor quality of some plantings and lagging small-
holder development. Moreover, the low commodity prices have affected the



liquidity of the estates as well as GOI funding of these projects. A major
focus of dialogue between GOI and the Bank are measures to address these
problems.
1.11      Actions under the Special Assistance Program (SAP) designed to
assist GOI to continue implementation of NES projects during the present
period of resource constraints are being considered. Furthermore, an
in-depth review is planned in Fall 1983 to review GOI-s tree crops projects
(particularly those involving PTPs) and reach agreement of a long-term
planting program consistent with PTPs' finances, implementation capacity and
availability of GOI funds. To diversify the nucleus estate projects, avoid
worsening the price situation by expansion of tree crops, and reduce the
gestation period of projects, GOI is now extending the NES concept to new
and short-maturing crops, including sugarcane and cotton.
C. Project Background
1.12      In January 1971, at GOI request, the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) commissioned the Indonesian Sugar Study (ISS). The Bank was
Executing Agency. The objective was to formulate a ten-year program to meet
domestic sugar production and prepare a project for international financing.
The Indonesian Sugar Study contained among its recommendations the establish-
ment of sugar projects outside Java. Subsequently some 20 locations were
identified as suitable for rainfed sugarcane cultivation and variety trials
were started. In 1979, three locations - Ketapang and Menggala in Lampung
Province and Sebuhur in South Kalimantan - were selected for indepth studies.
These feasibility studies, undertaken by P.T. Agriconsult in association with
Hawaiian Agronomics Company (International), were made available to the Bank
by the end of December 1979. Upon review of the reports the Bank suggested
to GOI to field a project identification mission to determine the suitability
of the proposed Sebuhur (South Kalimantan) project. This choice was made on
the basis of the information then available and considering also questions
of regional balance in sugarcane development and establishment of NES
projects. The mission took place in August/September 1980.
1.13      In the initial discussions with GOI there was agreement that the
consultants' assumptions about cane yields had been overly optimistic and that
further work on site selection was needed. GOI then suggested locating the
factory on the Tabanio river, immediately north of the Kabupaten capital of
Pelaihari. In March 1981 a mission visited the site and found that the areas
proposed for cane development were too far away from the envisaged factory
site. It then examined possible alternative sites in the vicinity of
Pelaihari. Subsequent missions resulted in an acceptable reformulation of the
proposed project and startup funds for the project were included in the NES V
project (Loan 2007-IND). Up to March 1983, about US$3.1 million had been
disbursed for preparatory works besides the equivalent of US$2 million
invested by GOI in activities spelled out in para. 3.15.
Project Objectives and Relation to Sector
1.14      The Government's objectives for the sugar subsector are consistent
with and complementary to its objectives for the rural sector (para. 1.03)



and its overall development objectives, as well as those of regional develop-
ment to which the project would contribute. These are to (a) decrease the
country's dependence on sugar imports and save foreign exchange by expanding
rainfed sugar cultivation outside Java, (b) provide a development stimulus to
those new sugarcane areas, (c) give poor and mostly landless families from
Kalimantan and the core islands a livelihood as smallholders, and (e) promote
regional development by exploiting unused or underused resources of land and
population.
1.15      The public sector estates (PNP/PTP) have been found to be an
effective vehicle for this policy not only in sugarcane but also in related
subsectors such as rubber and palm oil production. They have the technical
and managerial skills to establish new plantations, to organize the distri-
bution of complex input packages, to coordinate smallholder production, and
to carry out or supervise the harvesting, transport and processing of pro-
duce. So far only five PNP/PTP have been involved in NES smallholder
schemes, and the application of the NES principle to an industrial crop
other than tree crops would eventually lead to the activation of a large
pool of expertise represented by the six sugar estate groups for the purpose
of smallholder development outside Java. Since none of the three sugar
estates which have been recently established outside Java contains a small-
holder component, the proposed project would be a field scale experiment
with the uncertainties and risks attendant to such an effort. If success-
ful, it could be replicated on a large scale and make an important contri-
bution to self-sufficiency in one basic foodstuff, to regional development
outside Java and to economic and social development of the rural poor.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and General Description
2.01      The proposed project is located in the province of South
Kalimantan with most of it in the Kecamatan of Pelaihari, some 65 km south
of the major port of Banjarmasin. Pelaihari, the administrative center of
the Kabupaten, is 20 km south of the proposed nucleus estate. The climate
of the region is hot and humid, with temperatures ranging from 24-340C and
relative humidity averaging 91%. There are two distinct seasons: the wet
west monsoons extending from November to April, and the drier east monsoons,
from Flay to October. Average rainfall during the wet season (November to
May) varies from 1,600-3,700 mm with an annual average of 2,723 mm, while
during the drier, cane harvesting season (June to October) the average drops
to 650-700 mm. Annual mean sunshine hours during the day are estimated to
be about 7 hours per day, adequate for rainfed cane. The area is traversed
by several streams including the Tabanio River with a minimum flow of 0.07
cu m/second, but averaging 11.8 cu m/second, which provides water for the
town of Pelaihari. Some of the smaller streams, including the Rangang which
borders the proposed factory site, can be easily dammed. Plans for enlarg-
ing the Tabanio reservoir have already been approved to increase water



-6-
supply to the town, and the enlarged storage would serve as a backup source
of water for the proposed project. The soils are mainly reddish latosols of
low inherent fertility but good physical condition and suitable for sugar-
cane growing. Moisture conservation is a major concern in agricultural use
of these soils. Alluvial and humic gley soils occupy lower-lying areas and
may require some drainage. There are also some areas of less suitable
podzolic soils, but they represent only 10% of the proposed project area.
Taking into consideration the agricultural management required and the need
to adjust operations to the time needed for sugarcane maturity, the area is
probably the best yet identified in the Other Islands for sugarcane produc-
tion and this suitability can improve with continued variety selection and
improved agricultural practices.
B. Population, Land Use and Existing Infrastructure
2.02      The population of the area is estimated at 70,000 including a
transmigration settlement recently turned over to local government, with
concentrations which are minimal in the proposed nucleus estate and settle-
ment areas, formerly rubber estates and cattle ranches. The area placed by
the Provincial Government at the disposal of the proposed project covers
15,000 ha. This area comprises several large private rubber or ranch
estates which have since been taken over by the Provincial Government. A
letter granting the use of the land (hak Guna Usaha) to the proposed
implementing agency has already been issued by the Provincial Government.
One of the estates, which constitutes the major part of the nucleus estate,
is already being used as headquarters and for 70 hectares of seed cane
nurseries for the project. The area is mainly covered by grassland (70%)
and trees and bushes (20%) (mainly old iubber trees) with the remainder of
the land in upland foodcrops and mixed crops. An existing paved road links
Pelaihari with Banjarmasin, crossing the project area, and continues south
through the transmigration settlement. The present bearing capacity of this
road and its bridges is not sufficient for the intense heavy traffic that
would be generated by the proposed project and the Provincial Government has
already initiated a program to strengthen these bridges to facilitate
project implementation. Earth roads connecting to the main access road
traverse the northern and central portions of the area. Several government
agencies, including land use, extension service, cooperatives, trade, public
works, utilities and planning have offices in the town of Pelaihari, as well
as the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the major agricultural bank. Education
and health facilities are disseminated among the existing villages in the
project area. An agricultural training center has been recently built in
Pelaihari and is expected to be operational by July 1983.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The project is part of Government s program to develop sugarcane
production and processing outside Java. It would be the first sugar project
to adopt the nucleus estate and smallholder (NES) approach used extensively
for Indonesian tree crop development. It is also seen to set the pattern of
sugarcane development outside of Java. Targetted at this aim, the proposed
project is the most extensively studied and carefully prepared of the nine
comprising the present program. Five years of sugarcane trials and two
years of advisory services for start-up operations have provided the
opportunity to identify and implement cropping techniques and managerial
requirements which should have a significant impact on the implementation of
the program. The efforts by the GOI to achieve an early start-up of milling
operations in relation to the other projects emphasize the role of the
proposed project as an example in the growing and processing of rainfed
sugarcane outside of Java.
3.02      The project would establish, in a continuous area of South
Kalimantan, some 12,400 ha of sugarcane and facilities to process 4,000
metric tons of cane per day (TCD), with provision for increase to 5,000 TCD.
Production of plantation white sugar would be about 50,000 tons per year
with the 4,000 TCD capacity. This sugar production represents only 7% of
the total sugar imports per year and the total project output would be
absorbed by the domestic market.
3.03      Expected results of successful project implementation would include:
(a) Experience with rainfed cane planting and ratooning outside Java
which could be replicated in other projects.
(b) A reduction in the foreign exchange needed to import sugar.
(c) A reduction in the domestic resources now used to transport sugar
from Java to Kalimantan.
(d) Increased incomes for the area's existing smallholders and for new
farmer settlers from surrounding areas and overpopulated areas
of Indonesia.
(e) Increased on and off-farm permanent and seasonal employment in the
area.
(f) Benefits to the overall economy of the region through infrastruc-
ture improvements needed for the project.



- 8 -
B. Project Content
3.04      The project would include:
(a) Nucleus Estate Development (PTP XXIV-XXV)
(i)  Planting about 4,600 ha of sugarcane on the site of an
old rubber estate north of Pelaihari.
(ii)  Constructing estate housing, community facilities and other
buildings, with sanitation and water supply, for 2,300 estate
personnel, including seasonal workers.
(iii) Constructing or upgrading about 420 km of factory, village
and field roads.
(iv)  Constructing and equipping a 4,000 TCD sugar factory
(expandable to 5,000 TCD) to process estate and smallholder
cane, including ancillary water and power supplies.
(v)  Procuring vehicles, and road construction and agricultural
equipment.
(b) Smallholder Development
(i)  Planting about 7,800 ha sugarcane for some 5,000 smallhold-
ers, including 2,000 existing farmers (800 from an existing
transmigration scheme south of Pelaihari recently turned over
to local government), and 3,000 new settlers to be estab-
lished north of Pelaihari under NES selection procedures.
(ii)  Developing 3,000 ha of land for foodcrops and house gardens
for the new settler families.
(iii) Building housing, with sanitation and water supply, for the
new settler families.
(iv)  Constructing about 1,000 km of village and field roads.
(v)  Providing seedcane, foodcrop seed, fertilizers and pesticides
(in kind or in credit) to smallholders as well as
subsistence loans for families on newly developed  and.
(c) Regional Infrastructure and Services
(i)  Improvement by the provincial government of 40 km of a main
access road, including bridges and culverts, from Banjarmasin
to the proposed project area and construction also by the
provincial government of 130 km of village roads from the main
access road to the new villages in the project area.



-9-
(ii) Upgrading and establishment of social and community facil-
ities and services in the project area.
(d) Technical Assistance and Program Support
(i) Providing 294 manr-months of consultant services and 2,540
man-weeks of training to assist PTP XXIV-XXV in implementing
the project.
(ii) Civil works, equipment and vehicles, specialized consultancy
services and research travel for applied research in the
project area under the guidance of BP3G.
(iii) Funds for planting, nursery and field development, and civil
works construction for future estate and/or smallholder
projects based on annual crops, and for studies in the sugar
subsector.
(iv) Funds for support of the manpower and training program for
seven new sugar estates within the overall sugar development
program.
Physical Development
3.05      Land Clearing and Planting.  Using existing farmers and eventually
new settlers, the estate would mechanically clear the site (mainly grass
[70%] with smaller areas of old rubber trees, bushes and tree stumps),
prepare the land and plant the sugarcane for both the nucleus estate and the
smallholders. The smallholder land would be managed by the estate through
the first two harvests and then turned over to the farmer. Crop maintenance
and cultivation after the first ratoon would be carried out by the small-
holder himself.
3.06      Nurseries.  A sugarcane nursery and trial field was established in
the Tambang Ulang estate five years ago, when the possibility of the sugar-
cane production in South Kalimantan was first considered. This expanded
trial area which now forms part of the proposed nucleus estate has reached
70 ha and is being expanded further to constitute the central nursery for
the proposed project. Additional smaller nurseries would be established
throughout the project area to reduce transport costs. As in other sugar
projects, it is expected that many of the smallholders would eventually
produce their own seedcane, except for new introduced varieties, reducing
the area required for this purpose by the estate.
3.07      Road Construction.  Construction of the main access road and the
village roads would be carried out by the provincial public works authorities
while field roads would be constructed by the estate by contract or force
account with smallholders contributing a share of the costs. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that (a) strengthening
of bridges on the main access road to a bearing capacity of not less than 30
tons, which has already been initiated, would be completed by October 1983,



- 10 -
when most of the heavier land development equipment and farm machinery would
be expected to reach the project area, and factory equipment would begin to
arrive; and (b) that earthworks, asphalting and construction of new bridges
to upgrade the main access road to Bina Marga Class IIA standards would be
completed by May 1985, when construction of the factory may be completed and
sugar processed in the first milling season would have to be transported to
Banjarmasin over this road.
3.08      Housing and Public Utilities.  Housing for 1,100 managerial and
factory staff and 400 seasonal workers would be constructed by the estate,
largely by contract. In addition, other buildings (including offices, ware-
houses and stores, laboratories and workshops and a guest house) would be
constructed as part of the main factory village. Utility and sanitary
facilities would also be constructed by the estate while community facili-
ties such as police stations, banks, post office and health and recreation
facilities would be constructed by the provincial government. Housing for
the 3,000 new settlers would be also constructed by the estate using modular
units of uniform design and the cost would be charged to the smallholders
under normal NES conditions. Sanitary facilities would be included and
water supply from wells or small streams would be provided.
3.09      Processing Facilities.  A sugar factory with capacity to process
4,000 tons of sugarcane per day (TCD) would be constructed on an already
selected site in the nucleus estate, centrally located to the proposed
smallholder sugarcane areas to reduce transport costs. The factory would be
located close to the main access road and to a source of water supply, and
the main estate village would be built adjacent to the factory site. The
capacity of the processing facilities would be expandable to 5,000 TCD in
the event that the number of smallholders joining the project should
increase and/or that improved agricultural practices should result in larger
volumes of sugarcane to be processed.
3.10      Factory and Main Village Water Supply.  Water for the sugar pro-
cessing facilities and the adjacent village would be supplied by a 1.2 mil-
lion cubic meter capacity reservoir on the Rangang River, a stream bordering
the proposed factory site and running into the Tabanio River to the east.  A
dam would be constructed in an already identified suitable site and water
distributed to the water treatment facilities in the factory and to a
1,000 cu m village reservoir for use in housing and community facilities.
Settlement and Community Development
3.11      Recruitment and Selection.  Smallholders for the proposed project
would come from three different sources. The results of a survey conducted
during project preparation indicated that some 1,200 existing farmers would
be willing to participate in sugarcane production, representing about one
third of the farmers within economic distance of the sugar factory. It is
expected, however, that successful implementation of the project would
result in a much larger number of existing farmers wishing to join the



project and providing the basis for an expansion in milling capacity. In
addition, 800 transmigrants in the Tajau Pecah Transmigration Settlement
would also be included, representing one third of existing transmigrants.
The bulk of the smallholders, however, would be 3,000 new settlers selected
largely from among the labor force employed in development of the estate and
with preference to local and provincial applicants to maximize the economic
impact of the project on the host region. The criteria for selection of
potential settlers, as in other NES projects would include that they be
married, preferably between 20 and 40 years of age and with a maximum annual
income of Rp 300,000. They should be willing to live and work in the project
area and have no criminal record. The estate would hire at least one member
of each new settler family for field or factory work and guarantee him
continuous employment during the 2-3 years when his land would be under
estate management. This would not only ensure the new settlers income
during that period, but provide needed training in sugarcane cultivation.
The same guarantee of employment during the years of estate management would
be extended to the existing farmers and transmigrants.
3.12      Land Allocation.  Land allocation in relation to the project would
be based on 2.5 ha units, of which 1 ha would be for the houselot, food and
cash crops, and the remaining 1.5 ha for sugarcane. Of the latter, about
1 ha would be harvested every year with the additional 0.5 ha representing
standover cane for the following milling season. Existing farmers whose
present holdings exceed the 2.5 ha would keep their land (devoting 1.5 ha to
sugarcane) while those whose holdings which are smaller would receive the
balance to achieve the standard area of 2.5 ha.  To ensure that land avail-
ability for this allocation would not be impaired, assurances would be
sought from GOI during negotiations that no new agricultural activities
would be allowed within the proposed project area other than those stipula-
ted under the project, particularly on lands intended for sugarcane produc-
tion under the proposed project.
Technical Assistance and Program Support
3.13      Implementation Consultancy.  Technical assistance is essential to
the project, not only because of the tight schedule, but also as an import-
ant element of in-service training for project staff. Temporary consultancy
services are and will continue to be available under start-up operations
until the implementation consultants under the project are in the field. To
assist PTP XXIV-XXV during the implementation period and in the first two
years of factory operation, advisory services would be provided in the areas
of project coordination, field development, agronomy, agricultural exten-
sion, civil engineering, mechanization, and harvesting and transport of
cane. Factory and workshop specialists, including factory and electric
engineers; instrumentation, boiler and steam, and workshop specialists; and
a sugar processing technologist would also be provided to ensure efficient
functioning and maintenance of the processing facilities. Finally, the
services of a financial controller would also be provided during this early
stage to assist the PTP in organizing the project's accounts and finances.



- 12 -
3.14       Applied Research.  To ensure continuous applied research to
identify new varieties and agricultural practices better suited to the
proposed project area and to increase yields and rendements, the project
would provide research facilities (office, laboratories, storage) and
equipment, as well as short-term consultancy by agricultural specialists and
travel for project technical staff. Varietal and agronomic trials would
eventually be incorporated into the overall sugar research program for the
Other Islands being prepared by the Sugar Council Secretariat and to be
implemented by BP3G under the auspices of the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD).
3.15       Start-up Funds.  Start-up operations for the proposed project,
financed under earlier NES projects start-up funds, have resulted in
disbursements of US$3.1 million by mid-March 1983. These operations include
physical (land and water surveys) studies, aerial photography, cartography,
advisory services, and agricultural machinery and equipment, and have
resulted not only in finalizing project preparation, but in expanding the
existing sugarcane nursery from 45 ha to over 100 ha and in land clearing of
over 300 ha for further expansion of the nursery and/or planting in the
1983/84 rainy seasons. In view of thie successful use of these start-up
funds, a provision of US$5 million would be made in this project to be used
in future nucleus estate and/or smallholder projects based on annual crops
such as sugarcane, cotton, etc., and on studies on the sugar subsector.
3.16       Manpower and Training Program.  To ensure coordination of training
between the proposed project and the overall training program for the sugar
subsector, the project would support the manpower and training program for
seven new sugar estates, including the Pelaihari scheme. This program has
been prepared by the Sugar Council Secretariat with support from Bank-assisted
consultancy services. Because of the different stages of preparation/
implementation of the seven sugar estates, a first time-slice of the program
is included in this project. The proposed loan would finance US$2 million
in foreign expenditures covering transportation, per diem and relocation
allowances for international staff, overseas training and imported training
equipment and supplies.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.17       The project would be implemented over a period of five years from
mid-1983 to mid-1988. The first years would be concentrated on the estab-
lishment of the nucleus estate and processing facilities. Start-up opera-
tions began in 1982 and include expansion of the seed cane nursery and land
preparation for sugarcane planting to begin October 1983. To process the
sugarcane resulting from the 1983 and 1984 planting seasons, construction of
the sugar factory would be completed by mid-1985. Construction of the sugar
factory in time to process the cane ready for harveting is, therefore, the
single most crucial activity in the implementation schedule, followed by
construction of the water supply facilities and estate housing. Chart 1
shows the start and finish of major project works.



- 13 -
3.18      Specifications for construction of the factory under a "turnkey"
contract have been reviewed by the Bank and are included in the
corresponding tender documents. Calculations of catchment area, and flow
for the water reservoir have been made and borings of the dam site have been
completed. Final design of the dam, which is relatively small, would be
completed during implementation of the proposed project with participation
of the consultants provided under the project. Seedcane nurseries, which
would normally have been an essential initial element, have already been
established and are being expanded by the implementing agency, thus provid-
ing for timely planting. Engineering design for infrastructure, including
roads, housing, etc., have already been established for earlier sugar
projects and those of the main access road correspond to standards already
in force by the regional public works department.
D. Cost Estimates
3.19      The total estimated five-year project cost is US$130.2 million of
which US$80.7 million (62%) is the foreign exchange component. Project base
costs are expressed in mid-1983 prices (Table 3.1) and exclude taxes and
customs duties on capital expenditures, from which the project agencies are
exempt. Annex 1, Tables 1-3 present project cost summaries and project
operating costs.
3.20      Base cost estimates were derived from recent quotations for
similar works and services. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% for
buildings, supplies and materials, and vehicles, machinery and equipment;
14% for the factory; 15% for roads and for project technical assistance; and
20% for the dam and water supply system. The "base costs" of land
development have physical contingencies already built in. Local price
contingencies are 20% (1983), 15% (1984), 11% (1985) and 7% (1986 +).
Foreign price contingencies are 8% (1983), 7.5% (1984), 7% (1985), and 6%
(1986 +). No price contingencies were applied to the base costs of the
factory to be covered by a turnkey contract scheduled to be signed in
mid-1983. Consultant services costs are based on recent contracts for
similar services in Indonesia. Estimated average direct and reimbursable
costs are $10,450/ month for foreign consultants and $2,600/month for local
consultants.
E. Financing
3.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$79.2 million (including US$0.2 mil-
lion capitalized front-end fee) would be equivalent to 61% of total project
costs and 100% of the foreign exchange costs of the project less the foreign
exchange costs of items reserved by Government for procurement in Indonesia
which are ineligible for Bank financing. The remainder of project funding
(US$51.2 million) would be provided by Government, who would bear all
foreign exchange risk. Table 3.2 shows the sources of funds for the various



- 14 -
project categories. Financing of the processing facilities under the pro-
ject was agreed to by the Bank in consideration of the tight schedule for
commissioning of the factory to catch up with the 1985 crushing season and
of the likely delays resulting from other sources of financing such as
export credits. The decision to finance the factory was taken after
possibilities of cofinancing with official lenders failed to materialize.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local Foreign To-tal Local Foreign Total as % of
(Rp billion) ----  --- (US$ million) ---   total
Nucleus estate and
factory development       28.4   46.4      74.8   29.3   47.8       77.1      62
Smallholder development    3.0    2.0         5.0    3.1    2.1         5.2     40
Regional infrastructure
and services               4.3    7.4      11.7    4.4    7.6       12.0      63
Program support              1.9    9.7      11.6    2.0   10.0       12.0      83
Base Costs             37.6   65.5    103.1   38.8   67.5    106.3         63
Physical contingencies       2.8    6.4        9.2    2.9    6.6        9.5     70
Price contingencies          7.8    6.2      14.0    8.0    6.4       14.4      44
Total Project
Costs               48.2   78.1    126.3   49.7   80.5    130.2          62
Front-end fee on Bank
Loan /a                    -      0.2       0.2       -    0.2       0.2    100
Total Financing
Required                48.2   78.3    126.5   49.7   80.7    130.4         61
/a Bank loan less front-end fee assumed at US$80.7 million.
Note: Total physical contingencies are 9% of base costs. Local price con-
tingencies are 19% and foreign price contingencies are 9% of the
respective base costs plus physical contingencies.



- 15 -
3.21      Nucleus Estate.  Because of its current financial position PTP
XXIV-XXV does not have surplus capital to invest in this project (para.
6.08). Government would allocate the funds needed by PTP XXIV-XXV for
factory and nucleus estate development (US$77.1 million) in accordance with
previously agreed annual budgets. The annual work program and budget would
be submitted by the PTP to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for its approval
and a detailed review by DGE to ensure that costs and physical targets are
realistic. After approval by MOA, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) would channel
the funds to the PTP in quarterly tranches. As in other Indonesian sugar
projects, 50% of the funds would be provided as long-term loans and the other
50% as equity.
Table 3.2: SOURCES OF PROJECT FUNDS
Ministry           Provincial
of              Government   Total
Finance   PTPs    & INPRES       cost   IBRD   (%)
---------------(US$ million)--------------------
Nucleus estate development       25.9      -           -         51.6   25.7   50
Smallholder development           5.4      -           -          7.6    2.2   28
Processing facilities               -      -           -         35.3   35.3  100
Technical assistance
(advisory services,
training and research)          1.1      -           -          6.9    5.8   84
Regional infrastructure
and services                      -      -        16.8         16.8      -    -
Program support (start-up
funds, studies and support
of manpower and training
program)                          -   2.0            -         12.0  10.0   83
Front-end fee                       -      -           -          0.2   0.2  100
Total                       34.3   2.0        16.8        130.4  79.2   61



- 16 -
3.23      The loans to PTP XXIV-XXV would be for 20 years at 13.5% per annum
with a five year grace period. Simple interest accrued during the grace
period would be capitalized at the end of the grace period. The proposed
repayment terms are based on the cash flow of the nucleus estate. The
equity portion of project financing would be in the form of ordinary share
capital. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that these
would be the terms of the loans to PTP XXIV-XXV. The conclusion of these
financing arrangements in a form and substance acceptable to the Bank would
be a condition of disbursement on the estate development component of the
loan. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that the PTP would
(a) maintain a ratio of long-term debt to equity of not more than 50:50;
(b) consult with the Bank before undertaking any new development exceeding
Rp. 1.5 billion other than agreed under the project; and (c) review its
cash flow every year to ensure that dividends are distributed only without
impairing PTP XXIV-XXV's ability to carry out its investment program
and operations with adequate cash balances.
3.24      Smallholders.  MOF would provide funds for all smallholder devel-
opment costs, except working capital credit (TRI) for sugarcane production,
which is funded by Bank Indonesia and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) under
existing arrangements. Annual and quarterly work programs would be reviewed
by BAPPENAS.  Upon approval by BAPPENAS, MIOF would channel funds to the PTP
in quarterly disbursements. Sugarcane would be planted on existing small-
holder land starting in 1984 and on new settler land starting in 1985. The
costs of land clearing, subsistence payments, new settler housing, field
roads and crop development overheads, as well as the working capital loans
under the TRI program, would be subject to credit agreements between each
smallholder and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Subloans for development would
be for 14 years, with a 4-year grace period. Interest would be 12% per
annum and simple interest accrued during the grace period would be capital-
ized at the end of the grace period. For handling the smallholder debt
service payments for development loans, GOI would pay semi-annually to BRI a
fee of 1% of the amount of loans outstanding. The annual TRI working
capital loans would carry an annual interest rate of 12%. BRI would be
responsible for paying smallholders for the sugar and molasses produced from
their cane. Debt service payments for both development and working capital
loans would be documented by PTP XXIV-XXV and deducted by BRI from the
amounts owed smallholders for their cane. Noncredit items which do not have
to be repaid include water supply, community development, education and
health facilities. Agreement was be reached during negotiations that (a)
smallholder development costs would be made available to PTP XXIV-XXV and
other implementing agencies and that (b) BRI would draft a smallholder
credit scheme for sugarcane under the TRI program adjusted to the crop cycle
in the Other Islands and satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1983. In
addition, the signing of the smallholder development agreement between the
DGE and the PTP XXIV-XXV in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition for disbursement against individual project components.



- 17 -
3.25      Interest rates.  Under the NES program, GOI has established
interest rates for lending public funds to smallholders at 12% p.a. and to
public sector companies at 13.5% p.a. Until the March 1983 devaluation of
the rupiah by 28%, domestic inflation was running at 13% and expected to
drop to 7% by 1985. This would have made real interest rates associated
with the project positive. Because of the devaluation, projections of local
inflation rates for the next few years have increased (para. 3.19). How-
ever, the new projections show a drop in inflation to 11% in 1985 and 7% in
1986. Thus the interest rates for the long-term loans associated with
this project are expected to be positive over most of the life of the loans.
F. Procurement
3.26      Civil works, excluding sugarcane processing facilities, but inclu-
ding housing, buildings, farm and estate infrastructure, field roads and
farm bridges (US$12.8 million) are small and widely scattered in area and
time span, and no individual contract is worth more than US$2 million.
Thus, they would not be of interest to international contractors. These
works would be carried out following local competitive bidding (LCB) proce-
dures aceptable to the Bank or by force account if suitable contractors are
not available. PTP XXIV-XXV would be expected to construct all cane haulage
roads by force account, since road construction equipment is a necessary
permanent requirement of efficient sugarcane transport, while settler hous-
ing, estate buildings, water supply, and electrical and sanitary facilities
would be expected to be contracted out. Assurances were obtained from GOI
during negotiations that (a) whenever possible, civil works would be grouped
into a number of suitable contracts (minimum Rp 200 million) to enable large
local contractors or joint ventures to bid; and (b) documents, including
evaluation, for contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be submitted
to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
3.27      Machinery and equipment (US$8.9 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB). To the extent possible, DGE would
centrally procure such equipment for this and similar projects. In develop-
ing and maintaining sugarcane land, PTP XXIV-XXV would procure small
equipment such as chainsaws, agricultural tools, hand sprayers and nursery
watering systems through prudent shopping or local competitive bidding
acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles and motorcycles would be subject to
reserved procurement, following established GOI procedures, and would not be
eligible for Bank financing.
3.28      To ensure that the processing facilities (US$31.0 million) are
ready on time to mill sugarcane planted two seasons earlier, procurement of
the factory would be on a "turnkey" contract basis and under limited
international bidding with a shortlist of recognized suppliers of complete
factories. The shortlist was approved by the Bank and bids were opened
on June 2, 1983.



- 18 -
3.29      Agrochemicals (fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides) US$1.3
million) would be procured directly from P.T. PUSRI. However, PTP XXIV-
XXVI could procure agrochemicals and small equipment including chainsaws,
agricultural tools, hand sprayers and nursery watering systems not exceeding
in the aggregate US$600,000, equivalent on the basis of prudent shopping
after solicitation and comparison of at least three price quotations from
reputable suppliers. PT. PUSRI is the sole supplier of urea in the country
and, as indicated by a Bank review, its prices are 70% lower than world
market prices for urea and generally lower than those quoted under procure-
ment by individual Bank projects. Thus, there would be little interest on
the part of foreign bidders. Other fertilizers (muriate of potash, triple
superphosphate and ammonium sulphate), are either manufactured in Indonesia
or imported by P.T. PUSRI in bulk, resulting in lower prices than those
under other Bank-assisted agricultural projects. Currently, most fertili-
zers are subsidized through the budget. As part of the Bank's continuing
dialogue with the GOI, the fertilizer subsidy issue is being discussed with
a view to reducing the subsidies, while ensuring that this does not
adversely affect production, particularly of rice and, since the initiation
of the rainfed sugarcane program, also of this crop.
3.30      As in the case of the processing facilities, because of the
urgency for early implementation consultancy, consultant services (US$3 mil-
lion) million were tendered early with a Bank-approved shortlist of recog-
nized firms specializing in sugar production. The consultancy would
otherwise be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the use of
consultants.
3.31      Regional infrastructure (US$16.8 million) would be.financed under
normal provincial budgets, without Bank assistance. They would be carried
out by the corresponding agencies, such as Public Works for the main access
road and trunk roads, largely by force account or by local contractors
selected by the PTP under civil works procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.25) for village community facilities and national agency
offices. Research facilities would be constructed by the PTP under civil
works procurement procedures, but the research work would be organized and
supervised by BP3G.
G. Disbursements
3.32      The Bank would disburse for the following items at the percentages
indicated:
(a)  100% of the sugar factory "turnkey" contract, net of any
identifiable taxes;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment for road
construction, cultivation haulage and harvesting of sugarcane;
100% of the ex-factory cost (less any identifiable taxes) of



- 19 -
equipment manufactured locally, and 80% of expenditures for
imported farm equipment purchased locally through prudent
shopping;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported laboratory and other
equipment for sugarcane research and 100% of the ex-factory cost
(less any identifiable taxes) of equipment manufactured locally;
(d) 100% of cost of agrochemicals;
(e) 100% of the cost of all consultant services; start-up expendi-
tures for future NES projects; and of studies in the sugar
subsector;
(f) 50% of expenditures for civil works including offices, warehouses,
other buildings, reservoir and water supply, and for roads con-
structed by the nucleus estate; and
(g) 100% of foreign expenditures for support of the manpower and
training program.
3.33      The Bank would not disburse for sugarcane planting, other than for
equipment and agrochemicals as above stated; nor for vehicles, motorcycles
and smallholder and staff allocation, subsistence and foodcrop expenditures.
Annex 1, Table 4 presents the estimated schedule of disbursements. Because
of the present general financial situation of the GOI and of its efforts to
begin milling operations in 1985, thus achieving the improved financial and
economic rates of return resulting from earlier income streams, the schedule
presents a higher rate of disbursements in the early project years than the
comparative actual disbursements for other Indonesian NES projects and area
development projects in the East Asia and Pacific region. This disbursement
schedule, which allows for 34% in the first year and 38% in the second,
would cover total cost of the turnkey factory contract comprising a large
disbursing category. The estimated disbursements rates for later years are
correspondingly lower. Statements of Expenditures would be used for civil
works and for parts of the training and research programs carried out by
force account and for start-up activities in future NES projects. Documents
supporting these statements would be retained in Indonesia and made
available, as required, to Bank supervision missions.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.34      PTP XXIV-XXV would keep separate accounts for all project invest-
ment costs, distinguishing between PTP and smallholder investments. Such
accounts would be part of regular semi-annual reports to DGE and the Bank,
to be submitted within 30 days from the semester end. PNP/PTPs involved in
Bank supported NES projects have standardized accounting procedures and



- 20 -
methodology agreed between the Bank and GOI.  These would be followed by PTP
XXIV-XXV.
3.35      PTP XXIV-XXV accounts are presently audited by a private regis-
tered public accountant in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, except that a
long form management report, as provided by private auditors for PNP/PTP
participating in NES projects, would be produced additionally, in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing. Other project
accounts and related disbursements made under Statements of Expenditures
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. PTP
XXIV-XXV summarized unaudited annual accounts would be submitted to the Bank
by March 31 each year and all audit reports would be submitted by June 30
each year. An assurance would be obtained from GOI during negotiations that
these accounting and auditing practices would be followed.
I. Environmental Factors
3.36      The project would establish sugarcane in areas of degraded rubber
plantations, secondary jungle, grassland and light cultivation. Though
sugarcane would generally be grown where slope was less than 6%, standard
soil conservation practices would be followed in steeper areas.
3.37      Soil fertility would benefit from the application of fertilizer
and improved tillage. Biological control of insect pests would be used
extensively and the small quantities of chemicals used to control rank
grasses, pests and diseases would have no significant adverse environmental
effect.
3.38      A sugar factory generates solid, liquid and gaseous waste products
but, with minimal treatment, they are neither hazardous nor toxic. Solid
wastes, such as filter cake and boiler ash are easy to manage and should not
create environmental problems. Airborne and waterborne pollutants would be
controlled.
3.39      The filter cake would be returned to the fields where it has a
beneficial effect on soil and cane production. Fly ash arrestors would be
installed to minimize escape of the material from bagasse burning. The
project area is lightly populated and the factory is 15 km north of
Pelaihari. The prevailing eastern and western winds would carry the remain-
ing airborne pollutants away from the town. All waste water from the
factory would be collected in a settling pond. The effluent from the pond,
which would contain some caustic soda and other chemical pollutants from
wash-down water, would be substantially diluted with overflow water from the
spray pond before discharge from the factory area. It would then be used,
without harmful effect, for irrigating cane nurseries and seed farms. Any
surplus would be dispersed safely through the natural drainage systems in
the area.



- 21 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Structure
4.01      NES V SAR 334-IND of May 6, 1981 (paras 4.01-4.05 and Chart I)
outlines the organization and functions of the Department of Agriculture,
including DGE, SBPN, public sector estates and other institutions princi-
pally concerned with NES projects. The proposed project falls within the
same organizational structure, except for the recently formed Sugar Council,
and the State Marketing Board (BULOG) which is responsible for marketing of
all sugar, imported or domestic.
(a) The Sugar Council
4.02      The Sugar Council was created by Presidential Decree in July 1982
in response to the need for a high level policy making body to control and
coordinate the rapidly expanding Indonesian sugar industry. Responsible
directly to the President of the Republic, its principal function is to
speed up sugar production by formulating and implementing policies for land
use, procurement, prices, marketing, storage and training.
4.03      The Minister of Agriculture is Chairman of the 16-member Council.
It includes three Ministers, eight Directors General, the Governor of the
Bank of Indonesia, three Chiefs of Agencies, and a representative of the
Indonesian Sugar Association. It is required to meet at least four times a
year.
4.04      The Council has a Secretariat which compiles data, prepares
reports, coordinates staff activities, and works with relevant government
agencies and private companies. The Secretariat, located within the
Ministry of Agriculture, has three bureaus: Programming, Monitoring and
General Affairs, and is headed by a high-ranking Secretary. The final
structure of the sugar subsector and of the major agencies involved is still
under study, although the general consensus is that the Sugar Council
Secretariat will take over the functions of the SBPN, the PPIG, and the
KPGB, which handle the support of the state-owned estates, the development
of sugar projects, and the supervision of ongoing projects, respectively.
The KPGB has already been eliminated, but the SBPN and the PPIG are expected
to continue operating for non-sugar projects. An outline of the proposed
new sectorial structure is shown in Chart 2. To assist the Sugar Council in
the planning and implementation of the overall sugar program for the Other
Islands, an advisory team of foreign and local sugar industry specialists
has been hired with financial assistance from ongoing NES projects and
initiated its work in early 1983.



- 22 -
(b) Other Agencies
4.05      The Directorate General of Estates (DGE) regulates all private
estates and smallholdings involving industrial crops, including sugar.
While DGE has no direct authority over public estates (PNP/PTPs) which are
responsible to the SBPN (with the recent exclusion of sugar estates expected
to be under the Sugar Council), it is responsible for their supervision when
used as agents for smallholder development. Dinas Perkebunan, the Provincial
Estate Crop Services, is responsible, through provincial government adminis-
trations, for extension services to smallholders growing industrial crops.
However, PNP/PTPs involved in growing sugarcane usually provide these ser-
vices directly to the farmers. Team Khusus, a nonstructural group within
the DGE, assists the Directorate in monitoring and controlling the increas-
ing number of externally financed agricultural projects and has an important
coordinating function among the agencies in the sector.
(c) Bank Rakyat Indonesia
4.06      BRI is the principal Government bank for the agricultural and
rural sector (except government-owned estates, for which Bank Bumi Daya
usually provides financial services). BRI, with 330 branches and 3,270
village units, provides credit to agricultural cooperatives, farmers,
fishermen and agricultural enterprises. More than 90% of its portfolio
comprises short term financing, but it is becoming increasingly involved in
agricultural term lending, with some assistance from the Bank, notably
through the IDA assisted Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND). BRI is also
the channel for credit provided under a number of smallholder development
projects, including all NES projects to date. Because BRI has no control
over the selection of NES borrowers, GOI bears the credit risk on NES loans
to them and BRI, in effect, acts only as bookkeeper and collection agent.
On behalf of Bank Bumi Daya, BRI would also pay the smallholders for the
sugar and molasses produced from their cane after deducting the
smallholders debt service payments.
B. Project Management
(a) General
4.07      DGE would have overall responsibility for the project, including
consolidation of procurement. A department of the Sugar Council (formerly
SBPN) would supervise and-guide PTP XXIV-XXV in development and operation of
its project sugarcane areas and processing facilities and implementation of
smallholder development, with the assistance of central and provincial
government agencies. The PTP XXIV-XXV President Director would be the
official project manager but would appoint a senior staff member as the
operating manager.
4.08      Team Khusus would coordinate project implementation for DGE.  As
for other NES projects, it would assist PTP XXIV-XXV in financial



- 23 -
administration, including preparation of annual work programs and budgets
especially for the smallholder component. It would also assist in project
procurement and monitor project implementation, including inspection of
field development, and evaluate project impact.
4.09      The Sugar Council Secretariat, in its new function as central
agency for the sugar sector, would ensure that policies established by the
Sugar Council are implemented and that all sugar projects, whether managed
by stateowned PTPs or by private firms, are operated within the context of
those policies. In addition, the Secretariat would monitor the overall
implementation of the sugar development program and assist the PTPs with
specific problems by providing access to specialized advisory services.
Consolidation of training and research programs for the sugar industry and
provision of technical and marketing information, both domestic and foreign,
are other functions of the Secretariat.
(b) PTP XXIV-XXV
4.10      PTP XXIV-XXV, with headquarters in Surabaya, East Java, would be
principally responsible for project implementation on behalf of the DGE and
the Sugar Council. The PTP is a limited liability company incorporated
under Indonesian company law with a three-man supervisory board (Dewan
Komisaris) representing the shareholders, and a four-man executive board of
directors (Direksi) comprising a President Director and Directors of
Production, Finance and Development. The company was formed in 1975 to
operate sugar mills and associated hospitals for sugar workers. The PTP
sells refined sugar, molasses, alcohol and spirits using sugar cane from its
own estates and purchased from smallholders. At the end of 1982 it operated
12 sugar mills and three hospitals in East Java. Rehabilitation of sugar
mills and associated estates at Jatiroto and Semboro was completed in 1978
and output from these projects is now coming on stream, leading to a large
growth in cane processed and sugar sold. Two additional works are underway:
a takeover of the Takalar project from private participants and the
implementation of the Pelaihari project proposed in this report. These two
latter investments are part of GOI-s strategy to expand operations outside
of Java and of the PTP's policy to rely increasingly on purchases of cane
from outgrowers rather than from its own estate operations. Project
planning and the implementation of capital works are the responsibility of
the Director of Development while operational implementation is the
responsibility of the Directors of Production and Finance. While nominally
independent, the company is at present controlled and monitored by the Sugar
Council/SBPN. The PTP specializes in sugar and does not operate estates
involved in other crops.
4.11      PTP XXIV-XXV, although a fully government-owned corporation, is
established to run on a commercial basis and is among the most efficiently
run of the PTPs. The Asian Development Bank, which in 1974 loaned the
Corporation US$17.5 million for the rehabilitation of Jatiroto and Semboro



- 24 -
sugar mills, indicates in its Project Completion Report that project targets
were achieved and describes improvements in the organization through train-
ing of technical and administrative staff and the provision of foreign
expertise to strengthen the management and accounting aspects of the PTP.
Other external lenders to PTP XXIV-XXV are the Industrial Development Bank
of India, and European, U.S. and Japanese commercial banks. The recommenda-
tions made by ADB on the accounting practices for future projects, including
the preparation of separate balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and
other financial statements for each production unit, have been incorporated
into the proposed project in Pelaihari. Until the completion of the ADB-
financed rehabilitation, PTP XXIV-XXV ran at a net loss. Beginning in 1979
it turned profitable and has subsequently maintained an average gross margin
of 15.4% and an average return on shareholders equity of 10.75% (averages
cover 1979 through 1982). The PTP began paying corporate income taxes and
dividends in 1981. At the end of 1982, the current ratio was 3.7 to 1 and
long-term debt to equity ratio under 50:50 and assets were Rp 104 billion;
profits after tax in 1982 were Rp 8.9 million (Annex 5, Tables 1-3).
Government has taken a conservative approach to PTP XXIV-XXV's financial
structure through regular infusions of equity capital and seeks to maintain
its healthy financial base (para. 6.05).
4.12      The proposed organization and staffing of the Pelaihari project
are depicted in Chart 3. Under a General Manager, responsible to the PTP
Director of Development, will be managers for agricultural operations,
*factory operations, maintenance and administration. The Agricultural
Manager will have five department heads reporting to him for farmers
liaison, nucleus estate management, farmers area management, cane harvest-
ing and transportation, and field equipment supply and maintenance. The
Factory Manager will be supported by a Chief Engineer and a Chief Chemist;
the Maintenance Manager by superintendents for civil engineering and the
agricultural workshop; and the Administration Manager by a Chief Accountant,
a Chief of Procurement and Warehousing, and a Chief of Personnel, Social and
Welfare Services. Project organization is summarized in Chart 2.
4.13      The PTP would be assisted by 294 man-months of consultancy service
including a project coordinator, a field development engineer, an agronomist
a smallholder extension specialist, a civil engineer, an agricultural
mechanization engineer, a harvest and transport coordinator, an agricultural
workshop specialist, a senior factory engineer, an electrical engineer,
several instrumentation and boiler and steam specialists, a sugar process
technologist, and a financial controller. These consultants would assist th
PTP in all aspects of sugarcane production, harvesting and transport, and
processing during project implementation and during the first two milling
seasons. Local consultants would assist the PTP with village design, layout
of smallholder plots and primary road alignment. The responsibilities of
these consultants are described in Annex 2.



- 25 -
4.14      The PTP XXIV-XXV First Director, as Project Manager, would be
responsible to the Director General of Estates for preparation of an annual
project work program and budget, including quarterly cost estimates for all
smallholder development to be undertaken by the PTP. Team Khusus would
review aud approve these on behalf of DGE before submission to MOF. The
First Director would also be responsible for seeing that annual budget
requests are prepared for noncredit expenditures on health and educational
facilities financed from INPRES. To ensure that project implementation
funds are available to the PTP on a timely basis, an assurance was obtained
from GOI that the PTP, assisted by Team Khusus, would prepare and submit
annual work programs and budgets to DGE by October 31 preceding the budget
year (January-December).
4.15      The PTP would establish the smallholdings, village infrastructure,
roads and processing facilities. The Smallholder Development Agreement
(para. 3.23) between DGE and the PTP would cover sugarcane development,
extension and processing. Under this agreement, the PTP would be respon-
sible for
(a) Land clearing of sugarcane for all smallholders, and foodcrop,
houseplot and garden areas for new settlers.
(b) Planting the initial smallholder sugarcane areas, maintaining
these and the first ratoon to maturity.
(c) Procuring and applying inputs for this planting and the ratoon
crop.
(d) Designing and siting houses and village layout.
(e) Constructing settler houses, water supply and sanitation.
(f) Developing village infrastructure, excluding health and education
facilities.
(g) Constructing and maintaining primary and secondary village roads
and cane haulage roads.
(h) Resettling the smallholders who may need to be moved and those
newly arriving.
(i) In association with BRI, providing an initial subsistence cash
payment for resettled smallholders together with an appropriate
TRI credit package to all smallholders for sugarcane and
foodcrops.
(j) Providing for sale (with BRI credit) a package of seeds, ferti-
lizers and pesticides, for foodcrop establishment.



- 26 -
(k)  Employing one member of each participating smallholder family to
work on and receive training in sugarcane planting, maintenance
and harvesting.
(1)  Supplying all smallholders with sugarcane extension services.
(m)  Training smallholders in cultivation and harvesting practices.
(n)  Collecting smallholder cane production for processing.
(o)  Through BULOG (or as GOI otherwise may provide), marketing
smallholder sugar production.
(p)  Preparing, with assistance from Team Khusus, a project com-
pletion report (PCR) after the proposed project completion
date of December 31, 1988.
4.16      Since almost all smallholders would at first be unfamiliar with
sugarcane establishment and maintenance, and since it would be in the PTP's
interest to see that smallholder sugarcane is cultivated to a high standard,
the PTP would be responsible for land clearing and preparation, nursery
establishment and sugarcane planting, and cane haulage road design and
construction, either by force account or subcontract. The PTP would also be
responsible for clearing foodcrop and house garden of the new settlers.
These activities on behalf of the smallholders would be the subject of a
Smallholder Development Agreement between DGE and the PTP. Costs and
quality would be monitored by Team Khusus on behalf of DGE, based on data
available through the Sugar Council Secretariat.
4.17      PTP XXIV-XXV would establish and maintain the nucleus estate
sugarcane areas and each smallholder sugarcane area through harvesting of
the first ratoon.  The PTP would be responsible for transporting all sugar-
cane even after smallholders assumed management, including harvesting, of
their land. The PTP would also establish and maintain all estate infra-
structure (except health and education services) and processing facilities.
(c) The South Kalimantan Provincial Government
4.18      The province would supply the smallholders with health, education,
social and foodcrop extension services. The existing foodcrop extension
service, provided by the Directorate General of Foodcrops through the pro-
vincial government, would be strengthened by the addition of a new extension
unit with a manager and five agents. The Chairman of the Provincial
Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA), assisted by the PTP general manager,
would coordinate: local government programs, centrally financed, but pro-
vincially executed (INPRES), to construct health and education facilities,
the granting of land title to smallholders, and the provision of foodcrop
extension services to participants. The district (Kabupaten) health



- 27 -
authorities would ensure malaria control. Other GOI programs, based on
Pelaihari, would provide mother and child health care, including nutritional
advice and family planning. During negotiations, assurances would be sought
from the GOI that the Provincial Government of South Kalimantan would expand
its services for health, education and fooderop extension in the project
area to supply the requirements of smallholders under the proposed project.
(d) Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC)
4.19      A PCC has already been established in South Kalimantan province
under the Bank-assisted NES III project (Loan 1751-IND). Its members
include the heads of the provincial Estate Crops and Food Crops Services,
the provincial head of the BRI and representatives of other relevant pro-
vincial government agencies. For the proposed project, it would also
include the head of the project area kabupaten (Bupati), the project manager
(PTPs First Director) and the project site manager. Under the project the
PCC would: (a) arrange the construction (under INPRES programs) of health
and education facilities in the project area; (b) arrange for recruitment of
prospective smallholders for the project to be accepted by the project
managers as suitable estate laborers; (c) expedite the granting of hak milik
to the smallholders; (d) assist in the recruitment of prospective new
settlers under the project; and (e) ensure crop extension services to all
smallholders.
(e) Agricultural Support Services for Smallholders
4.20      Agricultural Extension.  Extension for foodcrops is the responsi-
bility of the Directorate General of Food Crops (DGFC) which provides this
service from its office in Pelaihari. A second area office would be
required at full development and should be located in the smallholder
sugarcane area.  Food crop extension agents would maintain close liaison
with the nucleus estate extension staff to coordinate both activities.
Since the impact of the additional 3,000 new settlers would increase the
demand for these services, assurances were obtained from GOI during negotia-
tions that the existing foodcrop extension services would be expanded in
accordance with the increasing development of the sugarcane smallholder
area.
4.21      Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit would be provided
through the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) under the crop intensification
program (TRI) already in operation in Java. Because of the different grow-
ing cycle in the Other Islands, however, and the need to maintain standover
cane to initiate the milling season, the TRI program for the proposed
project would not be based on annual loans repayable at the end of each
crop. BRI and Team Khusus are currently studying a credit system adapted to
the requirements of sugarcane production under the Other Island conditions,
presu-mably based on a three-or four-year cycle. This would avoid the burden
of high repayment costs after the first year and spread the loan recovery



- 28 -
over more of the crop cycle. BRI and Team Khusus are already jointly work-
ing on such a credit program which will be completed before December 1983.
BRI has an office in Pelaihari which would handle TRI credit for the pro-
posed project, at least initially. It is expected, however, that additional
facilities would be required with the development of larger sugarcane areas
under the proposed project. Where village cooperative units (KUDs) exist or
would be established, these would act as intermediaries for the administra-
tion of sugarcane credit, as they do for the BIMAS program.
4.22      Cooperatives.  Cooperative units are not common in the area but
are expected to become more important as a result of the project. This
should be true especially for the smallholders located farther from the
nucleus estate, since there would be considerable advantages in cooperative
harvesting and transport of sugarcane if such cooperatives could be organ-
ized in the future. Facilities would be provided in the project area for
KUD units with office and storage facilities. These KUDs, in addition to
assisting BRI in the administration of credit, would serve as distribution
agents for fertilizers and chemicals to the smallholders, particularly for
foodcrops.
4.23      Regional Training and Research.  An agricultural training center
has been recently built in Pelaihari, some 20 km from the proposed sugar
estate, by the Ministry of Agriculture. This center will provide general
agriculture training to local farmers and will serve as a center for exten-
sion and research facilities in the region, including the proposed project
area. The capacity and curriculum of these new facilities had not been
established at the time of appraisal, but during negotiations, assurances
were obtained from GOI that the services to be provided by the new center
would be used in support of the proposed project. In addition, periodic
visits to the area are made by BP3G staff to review the sugarcane trials
initiated five years ago in the Tambang Ulang area of the project, which
now constitutes the center of the project nursery. A trial plot of sugar-
cane had also been established in Sebuhur, south of the proposed project
area, but with unfavorable results, and Sebuhur was excluded from the
proposed project.
(f) Operation and Maintenance
4.24      Maintenance of regional infrastructure would be the responsibility
of the corresponding agencies, i.e., the main access roaw between
Banjarmasin and Pelaihari, the main road to the factory and the village
roads would be maintained by Bina Marga, while the various provincial and
public buildings, such as the police station, post office, and the extension
office would be maintained by the respective parent departments. Operation
and maintenance costs for regional civil works would be shared among the
provincial departments and nucleus estate. The part of O&M cost chargeable
to the provincial government would be 100% for the main access road, and 50%
for the village roads. The estate would reimburse the provincial government



- 29 -
in full for the maintenance of the factory road, and 50% of village roads.
Because timely maintenance of infrastructure is essential to the project,
with even minor interruptions of transport having a serious effect on its
implementa-tion and or operation, assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that all regional infrastructure, particularly the main
access road and all primary and secondary village roads rehabilitated or
constructed under the project, would be maintained adequately and in a
timely manner by the appropriate agencies after project completion.
4.25      Operation and maintenance of civil works directly related to the
project, including processing facilities, nucleus estate and smallholder
field roads estate buildings and staff houses, would be the responsibility
of the estate which would also maintain the public utilities within the
project area. The cost of public utilities, such as water, electricity and
sewerage would be shared proportionately among the users, including the
public departments represented in the project area. Each smallholder would
be responsible for maintaining his house at his own expense.
(g) Project Training and Research
4.26      Training at all levels is a major concern not only for the pro-
posed project but for the overall sugar program in Indonesia. The manager-
ial and technical needs of this program, even as presently reduced to only
nine implemented factories, are far beyond the capabilities of the existing
sugar estates in Java to provide without seriously impairing their own
operations. For this reason, a training component has been included in the
proposed project that provides training in Indonesia, using existing facili-
ties (LPP, IIB, BP3G, BLKI and PUSDIKTOP), for 46 administrative and factory
staff, and 49 agriculture and mechanization staff. In addition, the same
facilities would be used to provide training for 65 factory and 58 agricul-
ture and mechanization non-staff personnel.  Overseas training for a total
of 150 manweeks would be provided for nine Surabaya-based PTP XXIV-XXV
advisory staff and 11 project staff to familiarize them with specific
aspects of the sugar industry in countries with problems similar to those
that would be encountered in the proposed project. Terms of reference for
the Bank-assisted advisory services to the overall sugar program emphasize
the support of the Sugar Council Secretariat in preparing a training program
for all the sugar estates. This program was completed in May 1983 and
presented to the Bank for financing under the program support component of
the proposed project. The program includes manpower and training facilities
for seven new sugar estates, including the Pelaihari estate. Training under
the program would be paid by the respective PTPs, excluding direct project-
related training such as included under the project training component.
Because the seven new estates are in different states of preparation or
implementation, a time-slice of the overall training program has been
included in the program support (3.16) and the rest would be financed from
the other source. The proposed project related training copmonent is
described in Annex 2(b).



- 30 -
4.27      Research would also be an essential component of the proposed
project if the full potential of the project area were to be realized. Lack
of experience in cane cultivation under conditions which are quite unlike
those in Java, requires that a continuous investigation of improved agricul-
tural practices and better adapted varieties be carried out from the onset
of the project. For this reason, a modest research component (Annex 6(c))
would be incorporated into the project. This research, however, should be
consistent with an overall research program under the AARD, not only to
determine the areas of the Other Islands better suited to sugarcane produc-
tion, but the agricultural practices and cane varieties best adapted to the
special conditions of each of the proposed sites. In the course of nego-
tiations, agreement was reached with Government that an overall research
program would be completed by the Sugar Council, assisted by its specialized
consultants, and by BP3G, under the umbrella of the agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD), by December 31, 1983. The proposed applied
research is described in Annex 2 (c).
V. SUGARCANE PRODUCTION, TRANSPORT, PROCESSING AND MARKETING
A. Sugarcane Production
5.01       The project would establish 12,400 ha of sugarcane, including
4,000 ha of nucleus estate and 600 ha of seed cane nursery and 7,800 ha of
smallholder farms (local farmers, existing transmigrants and new settlers
under the NES procedures). Production of sugarcane would be based on a
combination of one-season cane (10-12 months) and standover (12-18 months)
cane to make full use of the sugar factory capacity during the harvesting
season. Initially, sugarcane development would be based on three selected
varieties from those recommended by BP3G for the Pelaihari area, but applied
research to identify additional suitable varieties would be continued under
the project. Average cane yields based on five years research at the
Tambang-ulang nursery inside the area of the proposed nucleus estate would
be 80 ton/ha for first cut and first ratoon; 70 ton/ha for second ratoon;
65 ton/ha for third ratoon and 90 ton/ha for standover cane in the nucleus
estate. Although these are conservative estimates, even lower figures are
projected for smallholder-managed cane to compensate for loss of estate
management and the limited experience of the smallholders in producing
rainfed sugarcane. Sucrose rendement is expected to average 8.5% for both
state and smallholder cane. Land development in the five year implementa-
tion period would increase from 1,500 ha in the first year to 3,100 ha in
the third and fall to 2,100 ha in the fifth year. Land development and
sugarcane harvesting schedules are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
5.02       Sugarcane growing would include the normal operations of land
preparation, planting, weed control, pest and disease control and ratooning,
the last constituting a difference from the current practice in Java where
sugarcane is harvested every year and the area planted to rice. Land



- 31 -
preparation involving plowing to normal depths of 20 cm and some subsoiling
to 50 cm in areas with heavier clay subsoils or where improved infiltration
and waterholding capacity is required. Furrowing would be done at 1.5 m
spacing and completed no later than the end of October in order to start
planting by the onset of the rainy season. The need to carry out all land
preparation within the limited period of the dry season makes it imperative
that these operations be done mechanically by the estate, with smallholders
being charged a reasonable cost for preparation of their land. Planting
would be done by hand to provide employment during the early stages of the
cropping cycle and to allow for the operation to carry on even under the
prevailing wet conditions during most of the planting period. Urea would be
the main fertilizer used beginning with applications of 170 kg/ha for the
first application and 130 kg/ha for the second. These application rates,
however, would be under review by the research program to determine if other
rates may be more effective and/or less costly. Standover cane would
receive higher applications of urea. Filling gaps resulting from failed
germination would be a normal part of the planting operation.
5.03      Weeds would be largely controlled by the growth of the cane itself
but until a continuous canopy has been achieved, spraying, weed burying,
ridging of plants and hand hoeing would be used to control undesirable
growth. Only minor infestations of fungal diseases have been observed in
the area and stem borer is the major pest found in the existing nursery.
Bacteriosis is under investigation by BP3G but would be largely controlled
by preventive sanitary measures and selection of less susceptible varieties.
Biological control of the stem borer is a long-term approach and chemical
control a costly one. However, BP3G has developed a technique for breeding
and releasing predators which has been considerably successful in Java and
similar approach would be sought for the Other Islands.
5.04      The cropping system in the proposed project would be based on a
three-ratoon system, although it is believed that a fourth ratoon would be
possible in some of the better areas. Ratoons would basically have similar
requirements to plant cane, although fertilizer rates would be somewhat
requirements to plant cane, although fertilizer rates would be somewhat
higher. Hand-hoeing, inter-row ripping and re-ridging, as well as filling
of gaps in plant coverage would be normal operations in ratoon cultivation.
To ensure that early investments in the construction of the processing
facilities are justified, assurances were obtained from GOI during
negotiations that planting of sugarcane would commence in the 1983 planting
season and continued in 1984. This would provide the necessary standover
cane for the early stages of milling operations and short-cycle cane for the
latter part of the harvesting season.
5.05      The total production of cane milled during an estimated 150 day
milling season with the factory working at 90% efficiency would be some
6003000 tons based on the above average yield of 80 ton/ha.   Assuming an
average rendement of 8.5% (8.8% starting in year 7) for cane from all



- 32 -
sources, total sugar production in a milling season would be about 50,000
tons. In addition to the sugar, the proposed project would produce an
expected 23,000 tons of molasses, based on an estimated 3.75% of the
sugarcane production.
B. Cane Harvesting and Transport
5.06      Sugarcane produced under the proposed project would be harvested
green, cut and loaded manually into containers and hauled from the fields by
tractor and trailer units to the factory over average wransport distances of
5 to 15 km. Trash (dry leaves) would be retained in the field for soil and
water conservation and weed control. There would be four harvesting sectors
or "fronts", one for the nucleus estate and three for the smallholders, each
with a cutting supervisor. Cane cutters would be organized by the nucleus
estate management into groups of 50 men. Manual harvesting of the cane
would create additional jobs in accordance with GOI policies and provide the
opportunity for selection of prospective new settlers. A program to train
tractor operators is already going on in the project area and would be
expanded under the proposed project. Scheduling of harvesting operations,
one of the most complex activities in a sugar project, would be the respon-
sibility of the estate management. During the first two years of factory
operation, the estate would be assisted by a harvest and transport consult-
ant coordinator who, based on cane maturity determinations in the various
sectors, would develop a harvesting schedule consistent with milling
capacity and sugar processing operations. While it is estimated that the
present number of existing farmers and transmigrants would be sufficient to
provide the necessary labor force, workers from other areas of Kalimantan
and from other islands, particularly Java, would be encouraged to ensure
cultivation of foodcrops and facilitate the selection process for the new
transmigrants.
5.07      Cane transport would be by tractor and trailer units (in-field
units) for distances within eight km of the factory, including all of the
nucleus estate sugarcane. For longer distances, including a large number of
the smallholder farms, cane would be loaded in the field and transported by
these in-field units to a transhipping area where the loaded containers
would be transported by road trucks (road units) to the factory. The
in-field units would comprise 80 hp 4-WD tractors and trailers equipped with
hyraulic powered winch and cable to lift the containers as well as hydraulic
hooks to secure the containers to the trailers. The road trucks would be
similarly equipped. Sugarcane would be transported over all the project
roads, including the main access road, village roads, secondary haulage
roads, link roads and field roads. Main access and village roads would be
built to provincial public works standards which are suitable for cane
transport. All other roads would be built up to specifications required for
this use, including maximum slopes of 12%. The main access road would be
asphalted and all other roads would be compacted with 50% of the field roads



- 33 -
having laterite surface. The main access road would be constructed to
Class ITA standards and the secondary haulage roads and main village roads
to Class III standards established by Bina Marga. The layout of the road
system would be consistent with minimizing the haulage distances while
maintaining the required specifications for sugarcane transport.
C. Sugar Processing
5.08      The proposed project would produce plantation white sugar from
sugarcane by the conventional method (extraction, clarification, filtration,
bleaching, evaporation, crystalization, separation and drying) in a sugar
factory with 4,000 TCD capacity, easily expandable to process 5,000 TCD. In
both cases, capacity for increased requirements of steam of up to 10% would
be included. It is estimated that an average 150 days of operation per
season would be experienced, with a projected net efficiency of about 90%
when projected normal operations in 1988. Provision would be made for
water, steam and electric power to maintain the sugar factory, agricultural
workshop and estate village. The requirements of a 4,000 TCD factory are
approximately 95 tons of steam per hour and 3.0 MW of electric power. An
additional 0.8 MW electric power for the agricultural workshop and village
would be available. Provision would be made for 120 tons of steam per hour
and 9.0 MW electric power, including spares, under the proposed project.
The boilers would be designed to use bagasse and/or fuel oil. At the pro-
jected cane quality, there would be an excess of bagasse production which
would minimize the requirement of auxiliary fuel after reaching normal
operation. W4hile it is expected that increasing smallholder participation
in the project and larger volumes of sugarcane resulting from improved
variety selection and agricultural practices would make it possible to
supply the increased potential capacity, because of the need to examine the
financial and economic implications of increased production, agreement was
reached with GOI during negotiations that expansion to the potential 5,000
TCD capacity would only be undertaken in consultation with the Bank. Even
without expansion beyond the 4,000 TCD capacity the costs of producing sugar
would be reasonable. The total cost of production (capital and operating)
over the life of the project would be about US$290/ton. A sketch of the
proposed processing facilities is shown in Chart 3 and the facilities are
described in detail in the revised and approved specifications for the
factory.
5.09      Timely construction for the sugar factory is a basic requirement
to the financial and economic success of the proposed project. To achieve
the projected milling start-up date of mid-1985, an estimated construction
time of 18 months was considered adequate, but 20 months were provided in
the corresponding schedule (Chart 4) with two additional months for no-load
testing and commissioning. To achieve this construction schedule, a
"turnkey" type operation would be required.  As shown in other tendered
factories in the overall sugar development program, combining equipment and



- 34 -
civil works from various suppliers working under different schedules and
procedures is a time-consuming process. The "turnkey" contract places
direct responsibility for the factory being operational at a given date on
the selected supplier and reduces the risk of slippage in factory commis-
sioning with the resulting losses in sugarcane development. On the basis of
GOI-s adherence to the agreed construction schedule, with invitations to
tender issued, site visit and discussions with potential suppliers held and
a closing date for presentation of bids set for June 2, 1983, the proposed
target date for start-up of milling operations is considered realistic.
D. Marketing
5.10      The sugarcane produced under the project would be milled by
processing facilities owned and operated by the nucleus estate and provided
under the project. Following traditional custom in Indonesia, farmers would
be paid for their cane in terms of the sugar produced. Of the value of this
sugar, once the smallholder has assumed full responsibility for his land,
not less than 60% would be the smallholder's gross payment as determined by
an established Government formula (while the smallholder's land is under
estate management, i.e., until after the harvest of the first ratoon, the
smallholder would receive 25% of the value of the sugar).  This formula has
developed over time to meet the needs of irrigated sugarcane in Java. Since
a different method of growing cane will be used in this project (rainfed
with three ratoons) in a different part of Indonesia (South Kalimantan),
experience may show that a different sharing of revenues between the small-
holders and the processor would be more appropriate. Therefore, agreement
was reached with Government during negotiations that the smallholder's share
for sugar and molasses produced from his sugarcane and the ex-factory price
of sugar and molasses would be determined in accordance with principles
including, inter alia, (a) all legitimate and reasonable expenses of
collecting, transporting, procesing and marketing of smallholder production;
(b) the importance of encouraging smallholder production, higher yields and
rendements; (c) the need for the estate to earn a return on the capital
employed in the processing facilities; (d) the eventual development of
smallholders' cooperatives, and (e) the level of Government taxes. It was
also agreed that such principles would be reviewed from time to time by GOI
and the Bank. Debt service for the smallholder development loans and the
annual working capital loans and other project charges owed the nucleus
estate by the smallholders, such as harvesting, would be deducted from the
smallholder's gross payment.
5.11      Marketing of sugar in Indonesia is carried out exclusively by the
Badan Urusan Logistik (BULOG), a national food stock authority with respon-
sibility for procurement and distribution of rice, sugar and other commodi-
ties. Sugar produced in the country becomes the property of BULOG as soon
as it is processed, but it is stored by the factory until it is distributed.
BULOG pays the factory for the storage and this cost is added as a storage
fee to the consumer price.



- 35 -
5.12       Sugar production in Indonesia is estimated at 1.3 million tons in
1982 as compared with an estimated consumption of 2.1 million tons. Most of
the deficit must be covered through sugar imports which, even in terms of
the present depressed international prices, represent a substantial cost in
foreign currency for the country.  Projected figures for 1990 before the
1981 announcement of GOI's sugar program were for a total production of
2.6 million tons and the deficit remaining at 700 thousand tons. These
figures result in a national consumption of 13.8 kg per head in 1982 and
18.7 kg per head in 1990. In South Kalimantan, where consumption is
slightly higher than the national average (16.5 kg in 1982 and 21.4 kg in
1990) the total consumption is estimated at 35,000 tons in 1982 and 55,800
tons in 1990.  The total production of the proposed project, 50,000 tons,
which will be reached only in 1988, would satisfy the total provincial
demand for that year, but would be insufficient for the subsequent years
unless the potential capacity expansion to 5,000 TCD is achieved.
5.13      Distribution of the sugar produced under the proposed project
would be the responsibility of BULOG. Logically, this sugar would supply
the provincial market, thus realizing significant savings on transport.
However, during a transitional period at least, existing distribution
arrangements may cause BULOG to export some of the sugar production to other
parts of Kalimantan or even to some of the other islands.
5.14       W1hile the 1981 proposed overall sugar development program for the
Other Islands was expected to satisfy Indonesia's sugar deficit by the end
of the decade, some of the proposed factories have been delayed and may be
cancelled and, in the best of assumptions, they would barely keep up with
increasing population and demand. The market for sugar produced by the
proposed project is therefore assured.
5.15      Domestic marketing of molasses on behalf of the PTPs is undertaken
by the Kantor Administrasi Pemasaran Bersama Gula (KAPBG), the joint sugar
marketing office, at Government controlled prices. The bulk of molasses are
exported, however, although alternative uses for this byproduct should be
sought, particularly in the expansion of livestock production in South
Kalimantan.
E. Prices
5.16       Sugar prices at all levels are fixed by Government, although
regional variations occur because of distribution costs. At the present
time of depressed world market prices, Indonesian domestic prices for sugar
(US$394/ton ex-BULOG store, Banjarmasin) are significantly higher than an
import parity price based on estimated 1983 spot prices (US$328/ton ex-BUL0G
store, Banjarmasin). However, it is not Government policy to subsidize the
sugar industry. Rather, the policy is to match parity prices over time.
Particularly since the bulk of imported sugar is purchased through forward



- 36 -
contracts, a policy based on the fluctuating spot market would be inappro-
priate. Before the March 1983 devaluation of the rupiah, the current
ex-factory price did in fact equal the long-term import parity price of
sugar. In projecting the price of sugar, it was assumed that the policy of
matching the long-term import parity price (US$476/ton ex-Pelaihari factory
from 1985 on) would continue. Annex 4, Table 1 shows the current and
projected world spot prices for sugar during the life of the project and
Annex 4, Table 2 shows the derivation of import parity price.
5.17      The price of molasses, as in the case of sugar, has varied widely
in recent years. From 1975-1982 the FOB spot price of internationally
traded sugar averaged 5.7 times the FOB price of exported Indonesian
molasses. Thus, the projected export price for molasses was derived by
dividing the projected price for sugar by the 5.7 constant. Local transport
and handling costs were then subtracted to arrive at an ex-factory price of
US$44/ton.  Domestic ex-factory price for molasses is fixed by Government at
Rp 50,000/ton (US$52/ton) and this is assumed to continue. A weighted aver-
age of projected export prices (87%) and domestic prices (13%), based on
historical sales levels, has been used to arrive at a financial price for
sugar (US$47/ton). For the economic analysis the projected export prices
alone have been used. Annex 4, Table 3 shows the current and projected
prices of exported Indonesian molasses during the life of the project and
Annex 4, Table 4 shows the derivation of the prices used in the economic and
financial analyses.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  General Benefits
6.01      The project would establish 12,400 ha of sugarcane and 3,000 ha of
gardens and foodcrops in a relatively undeveloped area where smallholder
incomes are low and employment opportunities few. It would directly benefit
some 5,000 smallholder families and provide permanent employment for about
another 1,100 people working for the nucleus estate.  By creating employment
opportunities in other sectors to service the nucleus estate and the agri-
cultural settlements, and by acting as a catalyst for further development in
this relatively isolated area, the project would indirectly benefit at least
another 2,000 families. Transport, communications, health and education
would all improve and increase the attraction of the area as a place to live
and work in.
6.02      During the initial development period, the project would provide
most of the participating smallholders with regular work. Through the
training and research components, the project would set an example of
efficient sugar production and enable the sector to expand. In particular,
there may be other sugarcane areas nearby sufficiently large and available



- 37 -
to justify an eventual expansion of the sugar factory or creation of a new
one. The project would support Government's policy of increasing domestic
sugar production, creating productive employment for the rural poor,
particularly in an area with few alternative crops, sustained use of
underutilized land and water resources, and foreign exchange savings would
be achieved by import substitution.
6.03      The base cost of developing sugarcane for smallholders would be
about US$9,000 per family. The project would provide 10,300 new jobs in
agriculture for a total investment of US$117 million (base cost plus
physical contingencies), about US$11,000 per job created. By comparison,
job creation in medium to large-scale industry in Indonesia is estimated to
cost US$24,000 per job.
6.04      The project, at full development in 1988, would produce over
50,000 tons of sugar for domestic consumption and 23,000 tons of molasses
together worth about US$30 million landed in South Kalimantan.
B. Financial Results
PTP XXIV-XXV Financial Analysis
6.05      PTP XXIV-XXV is the most successful of the sugar PTPs and has a
strong and improving financial position (see para. 4.11). It has a record
of financial prudence and competent management. At the time of appraisal,
October 1982, its investment plans, although ambitious, were reasonable and
acceptable. Furthermore, the long-term forecasts indicated continued profi-
tability and sound financial structure. Since then, the PTP has modified
its investment plans due to subsequent developments in the Indonesian
economy. These modifications aim at consolidation and should further
enhance the PTPs financial viability. The PTP produced as a condition of
negotiations an updated investment and long-term forecast statement for its
operations. These forecasts, incorporating the potential impact of the recent
devaluation, were comprehensive and acceptable, and confirmed the earlier
conclusion that PTP XXIV-XXV would be financially viable for the
foreseeable future.
6.07      Despite recent reductions in the debt:equity ratio, the PTP
capital structure is relatively highly leveraged for a plantation company
and GOI intends that it shall be maintained below 50:50. Financing of new
projects will thus require a large proportion of equity capital.



- 38 -
6.08      The PTP will derive project income from its own sugar operations
and from the less profitable processing of smallholder cane. GOI does not
plan to depart from the standard 60:40 formula for the smallholders share of
smallholder produced sugarcane, but may allow the PTP a fee for its opera-
tions on their behalf. For administrative reasons, MOF would prefer to make
the actual conversion to share capital on project completion. In the
meantime, funds intended for equity conversion will be recorded as a GOI
intereset free loan (para. 3.21).
Financial Rate of Return
6.09      Because of the sudden devaluation of the rupiah on March 30, 1983
from about US$1 = Rp 700 to US$1 = Rp 970, some adjustments have been made
to the costs and benefits obtained during appraisal to derive the FRR. The
immediate effect of the devaluation was to increase foreign costs expressed
in rupiah by 39% without changing local costs expressed in rupiah. It is
felt this would significantly understate the relative price of nontradeable
goods and when the full effects of the devaluation work themselves out the
relative costs of nontradeable goods will actually be about 25% higher than
the immediate post-devaluation levels. Therefore, when deriving the FRR, in
addition to converting the foreign exchange portion of base costs plus
physical contingencies at the new exchange rate (effectively increasing
foreign costs by nearly 40%) local costs and benefits have also been
increased by 25%. It is felt that this methodology will express a truer FRR
in constant values (see para. 6.12 (a)). The FRR to PTP XXIV-XXV for the
proposed project is 13% (Annex 5, Table 5) based on the foregoing assumptions
and a 1985 factory start. The FRR, like the ERR (para. 6.14), is most
sensitive to changes in the price of sugar, which is controlled by BULOG.
The base case assumes that BULOG will maintain its traditional policy of
trying to match the long-term import parity price in setting the ex-factory
procurement price. However, if todays ex-factory price didn-t increase at
all in real terms, despite the projected increases in the import parity
price, then the FRR drops to 5%. However, given that the long-term BULOG
procurement price is within 25% of the long-term projected import parity
price, an acceptable FRR of 8% to 15% can be expected.
C. Smallholder Incomes
6.10      After full implementation, net smallholder incomes after debt
service are expected to range from $1,700/year for new settler families to
$2,000 for existing smallholder families. These projection are about 80%
higher than estimates of current income for the groups. The difference
between the groups is due to the lower debt service requirements for exist-
ing smallholders who already have housing and food crop land and the fact
that existing smallholders are expected to continue cultivating slightly
more food crop land than the 1.0 ha allocated to new transmigrants. Also
see Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2 for details of projected settler incomes.
This budget is based on a new settler's sugarcane farm model (Annex 6, Table
1) covering the initial period of farm establishment (years 3-9 of the



- 39 -
project) and the four-year cycle which repeats itself from project year 10
on. While the average annual harvested area for this model is 1.25 ha, 1 ha
per farm has been used for the farm budget to allow for loss in milling cane
due to immature cane, fire loss, etc.
6.11      Cost Recovery.  BRI would recover the credit items of smallholder
development costs (para. 3.24 and Annex 6) retaining debt service payments
from the sale revenues of the sugar and molasses. To repay the annual loan
installment, payments of 10-20% of sugarcane income would be required. For
up to 14 years the estates would transfer all cost recovery to BRI which
would keep a record of all individual smallholder accounts. Besides
repaying all credit development items, smallholders would pay a land tax,
which village heads would collect and turn over to local and provincial
administrations for providing public services. This tax is considered a
direct project tax which contributes towards the operational costs of the
governmental agencies involved in the villages. The smallholder farm budget
in Annex 6, Table 2 shows that smallholders should be able to make their
annual debt service payments without difficulty.
D. Economic Results
6.12      Assumptions.  The following assumptions were made in deriving
economic costs and benefits:
(a) Base prices for major tradeables are based on border prices
converted to rupiah at the official exchange rate of Rp. 970 =
US$1.00 using a standard conversion factor of 1.0. Other base
prices, have been adjusted to 'reflect anticipated changes in the
relative prices of tradeables and nontradeables subsequent to the
devaluation of March 30, 1983 (para. 6.09).
(b)  The value of ex-factory sugar was derived from an import parity
price based on the World Bank price projections for sugar plus
transportation costs to South Kalmantan.
(c)  The value of ex-factory molasses was derived by dividing the
projected spot price of internationally traded sugar by a constant
based on the historical ratio of the two prices.
(d) Economic wages have been assumed at 75% of the market wage. In
other Bank-financed NES projects, labor has been shadow priced
at 50% in Java and at 100% in the Other Islands. Although this
project will be in the Other Islands, it was decided to shadow
price labor because (a) the project site is located in an area
with a large pocket of underemployment, as indicated in field
interviews and by the willingness of people to travel large
distances to get work (so the opportunity cost of labor could be
no more than the market wage less transport cost); and (b) given
that most smallholder participants in the project will be existing
transmigrants near Pelaihari or new settlers to the area, and one



- 40 -
explicit purpose of this project is to generate employment in
the area, one may conclude that market wages in this area over-
state the opportunity cost of labor. The assumption of economic
wages as 75% of the market wage was chosen to approximate a situa-
tion in between that of Java and the more prosperous areas of the
Other Islands.
(e)  The costs of health, education and village facilities and
regional infrastructure improvements have been excluded on the
grounds that Government would have provided these facilities even
without the project.
(f) The sugar factory starts operating in 1985.
6.13      Economic Rate of Return.  Based on the above assumptions the
economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 16% (Annex 7).
6.14      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
the effects of changes in costs, benefits and the initiation of sugar pro-
cessing. The results are summarized below in Table 6.1. The analysis is most
sensitive to changes in the highly volatile price of internationally traded
sugar. In a worst case analysis, whereby today's sugar price wouldn't increase
at all, the ERR of the project would be about zero. But for the likely range
of sugar prices (FOB Caribbean) during the life of the project (US$267/ton to
US$597/ton with a "most likely" price of US$398/ton, all in 1983 dollars), the
ERR appears acceptable.
Table 6.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ERR (%)
Base case (sugar at US$398/ton FOB Caribbean)                           16
With 20% increase in costs                                              12
With 10% decrease in sugar prices (US$358/ton)                          13
With 33% decrease in sugar prices (US$267/ton)                           7
With 60% decrease in sugar prices (US$159/ton)                          -1
With 50% increase in sugar prices (US$597/ton)                          28
With 1 year lag in sugar revenues (caused by
either delayed factory or plantation)                                 13
Switching values at 10% oppor-          Appraisal   Switching    Percentage
tunity cost of capital (Rp billion)        value        value         change
Decrease in sugar revenues                 170           131            23
Decrease in total benefits                 189           150            21
Increase in capital costs                   62           101            62
Increase in operating costs                 71           110            55
Increase in total costs                    150           189            26



- 41 -
E. Project Risks
6.15      Sugarcane production in the Other Islands is a new activity and
projects under preparation, including the proposed project in the Pelaihari
area, include a large experimental component. Traditional experience
acquired in centuries of sugar production in Java, with completely different
ecological conditions, are of little help. In fact, they may constitute an
obstacle to rapid acceptance of new approaches and technologies which are
essential to the success of the proposed project.  These constraints consti-
tute an element of risk that the project seeks to counteract through con-
tinued research and training and an emphasis on new agricultural practices
better adapted to the soil and climate conditions of the proposed project
area.
6.16      More immediate is the risk related to timing of project activi-
ties. Because of the short duration of the dry period needed for both
harvesting and land preparation, the timely programming and execution of
each of the many aspects of sugarcane growing becomes critical to satisfac-
tory levels of production. In the early stages of the project this timing
becomes crucial since investments in cane planting must be made two years
before the actual start up of processing operations. A delay in avail-
ability of operative processing facilities when the crop is ready for
harvesting would produce heavy losses on agricultural investment. In both
cases the financial viability of the project would suffer and GOI should
make every effort to implement each component of the proposed project on an
early schedule, including early tendering of factory and advisory services,
expansion of seedcane nurseries, preparation of land and appointment of a
site manager, to facilitate 1983 planting and 1985 factory completion. The
Bank is assisting these efforts through agreement to efficient and time-
saving limited international bidding for procurement of the sugar factory
(para. 3.27) and sugarcane planting beginning in the 1983 season (para. 5.04).
Annex 8 shows a schedule of early events critical to timely project
implementation.
6.17      A third element of risk, derived from the lack of experience in
sugar production under new conditions, is the lack of trained personnel to
manage and operate the estate. Two steps directed to overcome this risk are
the emphasis on training, closely related to the overall sugar sector
training program being prepared by the Sugar Council Secretariat with
assistance from their specialized advisors, and the extension of advisory
ervTch  that would be provided under the project beyond the implementation
period into the first two years of factory operation.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      A condition of negotiations was the presentation by the negotiating
team of updated investment and long-term forecast statements for PTP
XXIV-XXV's operations (para. 6.05). During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the following points:



- 42 -
(a) Strengthening of bridges on the main access road to the project
area to a bearing capacity of not less than 30 tons by
October 1983, and earthwork, asphalting and bridge construction
to upgrade this main access road to Bina Marga Class IIA stand-
ards to be completed by May 1985 (para. 3.07).
(b) No new agricultural activities to be allowed within the proposed
project area other than those stipulated under the project.
(para. 3.12).
(c) PTP XXIV-XXV to be provided with development funds for the nucleus
estate and factory under the following terms: (i) loans for 20
years at 13.5% per annum with five years grace period on capital
repayment; (ii) 50% of the loans in equity in the form of ordinary
share capital; and (iii) PTP XXIV-XXV to review its cash flow
every year to ensure that dividends are only distributed without
impairing the PTPs ability to carry out its investment program
and its operations with adequate cash balances (para. 3.23).
(d) PTP XXIV-XXV (i) to maintain a ratio of term debt to equity not
exceeding 50:50; and (ii) not to undertake any new development
exceeding Rp 1.5. billion, other than that agreed under the
project, without consultation with the Bank (para. 3.23).
(e) GOI to provide funds directly to PTP XXIV-XXV for all smallholder
development local costs, except working capital credit for sugar-
cane production (para. 3.24).
(f) BRI to establish under the TRI program a credit scheme acceptable
to the Bank and adjusted to the crop cycle for sugarcane in the
Other Islands by December 31, 1984 (para. 3.24).
(g) GOI whenever possible, (i) to group civil works for local
competitive bidding into a number of suitable contracts (minimum
size Rp 200 million) to enable large local contractors or joint
ventures to bid; and (ii) to submit to the Bank for review the
documents, including evaluation, for contracts exceeding
US$500,000 equivalent (para. 3.26).
(h) PTP XXIV-XXV to (i) keep separate accounts for all project invest-
ment costs under the project for smallholders and estate develop-
ment; (ii) these accounts to be audited each year in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) audited
reports submitted to the Bank by June 30 each year (paras. 3.34
and 3.35).



- 43 -
(i) PTP XXIV-XXV, assisted by Team Khusus, would prepare and submit
to DGE by October 31 preceding the budget year (January-December),
annual work programs and budgets for the proposed project
(para. 4.14).
(j) The Provincial Government of South Kalimantan would expand its
services for health, education and food crop extension to supply
the requirements of smallholders under the project (para. 4.18).
(k) The Provincial Government would use the training and research
facilities recently constructed in Pelaihari to support the
proposed project (para. 4.23).
(1) The main road between Benjarmasin and Pelaihari, the access road
to the factory, all primary and secondary village roads con-
structed under the project and all new village facilities would be
maintained adequately and in a timely fashion by the appropriate
provincial agencies after project completion (para. 4.24).
(m)  GOI to finalize and submit to the Bank a research (para. 4.26)
program for the overall sugar sector by December 31, 1983 (para.
4.27).
(n) Sugarcane planting in the nucleus estate to commence in the 1983
planting season and to continue in 1984 (para. 5.04).
(o) Expansion of the sugar factory capacity to 5,000 TCD to be under-
taken only in consultation with the Bank (para. 5.08).
(p) Smallholder's share of sugar and molasses produced from his
sugarcane and price of sugar to be determined in accordance with
principles including, inter alia all legitimate and reasonable
expenses of collecting, transporting, processing and marketing of
smallholder production; the importance of encouraging smallholder
production and higher yields and rendements; the need for the
estate to earn a return on the capital employed in the processing
facilities; the development of smallholders and Government taxes,
and such principles to be reviewed from time to time by GOI
and the Bank (para. 5.10).
7.02      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following
conditions of disbursement against individual project components:
(a) The signing of a financing arrangement between the BI/MOF and
PTP XXIV-XXV in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.23).



- 44 -
(b) The signing of smallholder development agreement between the DGE
and PTP XXIV-VXV in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.24).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$79.2 million (including the capitalized 0.25%
front-end fee of US$0.2 million) with a 20-year maturity, including a grace
period of five years. The Borrower would be the Government of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
-45 _                                               Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS SUGAR PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
% of
Local      Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  foreign   % of total
--- (Rp million) -------  --- (US$ million) ---  exchange  base cost
PTP 24/25
Factory                       6,999.2  23,070.8  30,070.0    7.1   23.9          31.0      77.0       29.8
Est. bldg. & util.            4,927.0   3,173.0   8,100.0    5.1    3.3           8.4      39.2        7.9
Est. veh. & mach.              1,434.1   8,124.1   9,558.2    1.5    8.4          9.9      85.0        9.3
Init. mat. stocks                579.2      820.2   1,399.4    0.6    0.8         1.4      58.6        1.3
Est. - land dev.                 327.7      862.0   1,189.7    0.4    0.9         1.3      69.0        1.2
Est. - preop. labor           2,200.0         -     2,200.0    2.3    -           2.3       -          2.1
PTP & smallholder roads       2,039.0   4,962.4   7,001.4    2.1    5.1           7.2      70.9        6.8
Technical Assistance             730.7   4,416.9   5,147.6    0.8    4.5          5.3      85.8        5.0
Operating costs /a            8,991.0       998.0   9,989.0    9.3    1.0        10.3      10.0        9.7
Subtotal PTP 24/25         28,227.9  46,427.4  74,655.3   29.2   47.9          77.1      62.0       72.5
Smallholder Development
New settler housing           2,301.8       362.2   2,664.0    2.4    0.4         2.8      13.6        2.6
Smallholder land dev.            636.0   1,672.9   2,309.0    0.7    1.7          2.4      72.5        2.2
Subtotal Sh. Dev.           2,937.8   2,035.1   4,972.9    3.1    2.1           5.2      40.9        4.8
Comm/Reg Development
Reg. roads                     3,369.6   7,158.2  10,527.8    3.5    7.3         10.8      68.0       10.2
Reg. comm. fac.                  899.5      141.5   1,041.1    0.9    0.1         1.0      14.0        1.0
Reg. veh. and eq.                 22.9      129.9      152.8    0.1    0.1        0.2      50.0        0.1
Subtotal Comm/Reg Dev.    4,292.1   7,429.6  11,721.7    4.5    7.5            12.0      63.0       11.3
Program Support                  1,940.0   9,700.0  11,640.0    2.0   10.0         12.0      83.0       11.3
Subtotal Program Support  1,940.0   9,700.0  11,640.0    2.0   10.0            12.0      83.0       11.3
Total Baseline Costs       37,397.8  65,592.1 102,989.9   38.8   67.5    106.3           63.7      100.0
Physcial Contingencies           2,769.1   6,354.5   9,123.6    2.9    6.6          9.5      69.6        8.9
Price Contingencies              7,785.2   6,205.4  13,990.6    8.0    6.4         14.4      44.4       13.6
Total Project Costs        47,952.1  78,152.0 126,104.1   49.7   80.5    130.2           62.0      122.4
/a  Other capitalized operating costs during project construction (representing working capital costs).
June 20, 1983



-46-                                               ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS SUGAR PROJECT
Total Project Cost
Project Component by Time
(Rp million)
Base costs                                Total
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987         Rp       US$ mil.
PTP 24/25
Factory                        3,007.0  12,328.7  14,734.3         -          -       30,070.8    31.0
Est. bldg. & util.             4,193.2   1,617.1   1,196.2   1,014.3         79.2       8,100.0     8.4
Est. veh. & mach.              1,806.8   1,044.4   2,319.3   1,904.1   2,483.6          9,558.2     9.9
Init. mat. stocks                138.2      481.1     572.8       98.3      109.0       1,399.4     1.4
Est. - land dev.                 406.9      446.3     407.8        -          -         1,261.0     1.3
Est. - preop. labor              440.0      583.0     705.1      471.9        -         2,200.0     2.3
PTP & smallholder roads          885.6   2,123.5   1,901.2   1,220.4        870.7       7,001.4     7.2
Technical assistance             657.1   1,941.2   2,306.1       182.4       60.8       5,147.6     5.3
Operating costs /a             2,833.0   7,156.0        -          -          -        9,989.0    10.3
Subtotal PTP 24/25         14,367.8  27,721.3  24,142.8   4,891.4   3,603.3         74,726.6    77.1
Smallholder Development
New settler housing                -        355.2   1,154.4   1,154.4         -        2,664.0      2.8
Smallholder land dev.            39.5       292.3     591.0      901.5      484.7      2,309.0      2.4
Subtotal Sh. Dev.              39.5      647.5   1,745.3   2,055.9       484.7       4,972.9      5.2
Comm/Reg Development
Reg. roads                     3,341.8   4,570.6      721.3      458.9   1,435.2      10,527.8    10.8
Reg. comm. fac.                  382.6        -        94.1      282.2      282.2       1,041.1     1.0
Reg. veh. and eq.                  -         57.8       10.7      39.9       44.4         152.8     0.2
Subtotal Comm/Reg Dev.       3,724.4   4,628.3      826.1      781.0   1,761.9      11,721.7    12.0
Program Support                  1,970.0   3,630.0   2,660.0   1,690.0   1,690.0         11,640.0    12.0
Subtotal Program Support   1,970.0   3,630.0   2,660.0   1,690.0   1,690.0          11,640.0    12.0
Total Baseline Costs       20,101.7  36,627.1  29,374.2   9,418.3   7,539.9    103,061.2   106.3
Physcial Contingencies           1,734.0   3,110.8   3,012.8       658.4      607.6       9,123.6     9.5
Price Contingencies                897.7   2,823.3   3,914.4   3,472.6   2,881.6         13,990.6    14.4
Total Project Costs         22,733.4  42,561.2  36,301.4  13,549.3  11,029.1    126,175.4   130.2
Foreign Exchange                12,317.3  25,285.2  26,441.0   6,838.2   7,397.3         78,279.0    80.7
/a  Other capitalized operating costs during project construction (representing working capital costs).
7b  Government-s contribution in x of baseline costs: 1983 (51%); 1984 (42%); 1985 (16%); 1986 (47%);
and 1987 (73%).
June 20, 1983



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS SUGAR PROJECT
Project Operating Costs
(Rp million)
1998
1993-      &
1983   1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990   1991   1992  1997   onward
Iasic Data /a
Nucleus estate-managed area (ha)           3,100  6,600  10,300  12,400  11,500   9,800  8,100  6,200   4,60  4,600  4,600  4,600
Nucleus estate-managed cane (H tons)           0       0     276      437      553     497    384    366    216    216    213    213
Smallholder area (ha)                        500  2,600   5,700   7,800   7,500   7,800  7,800  7,800  7,800  7,800  7,800  7,800
Total cane (M tons)                            0       0     276      437      611     603    613    625    609    609    604    604
Total sugar (M tons)                           0       0      23       37       52       53     54      55     54      54      53      53
Agricultural Operations
Staff (nucleus estate) /a                     60      66      93      112      124     143    151    151    151    151    151    151
Nonstaff /a                                  172    253      305      316      383     383    383    383    383    383    383    383
Physical inputs /b                         1,302  2,772   4,326   2,604   2,415   2,058  1,701  1,302    966    966    966    966
Seasonal labor /c                            905  1,927   3,008   1,810   1,679   1,431  1,183    905    672    672    672    672
Harvest labor /T                               0       0     175      277      350     315    243    232    137    137    135    135
Extension staff Ie                             5      23      51       70       68      70      70      70     70      70      70     70
Subtotal                              2,444  5,042   7,958   5,189   5,019   4,400  3,731  3,043  2,379  2,379  2,377  2377
Factory                                                                                                                                                 -
Staff  /a                                     54      54     102      108      108     108    108    108    108    108    108    108
Nonstaff/a                                    20      81     198      315      408     408    408    408    408    408    408    408
Physical inputs /f                           127    634-    634   1,267        886     874    889    906    883    883    876    876
Sugar sacks /g                                 0       0      94      149      208     212    216    220    214    214    213    213
Subtotal                                201    769   1t2    1,839   1,610   1,603  1 621  1 642  1,613  1,613  1,604  1,604
Maintenance
taff /a                                      29      29      45       47       47      47      47      47     47      47      47     47
Nonstaff /a                                   17    102      111      157      181      181    181    181    181    181    181    181
Physical inputs /h                            54    272      272      544      544     544    544    544    544    544    544    544
Subtotal                                100    403      428      748     772      772    772    772    772    772    772    772
Finance & Administration
Staff  /a                                     33      33      55       57       57      57      57      57     5       57      5
Nonstaff /a                                   14      66     115      115      229     229    229    229    229    229    229    229
Physical inputs including overhead /i         28    139      139      278      278     278    278    278    278    278    278    278
Subtotal                                 75    238      309     450      564      564    564    564    564    564    564    564
Operating costs before replacements          2,820  6,451   9,722   8,226   7,964   7,338  6,687  6,021  5,328  5,328  5,317  5,317
Devaluation adjustment li                    3,609  8,258  12,444  10,529  10,194   9,393  8,560  7,707  6,820  6,820  6,806  6,806
Replacements
PTP vehicles, machinery & equipment /k         -       -       -        -        -   1,091  1,091. 1,091  1,091  1,091  1,091  2,182
Buildings & utilities /1                               -       -                 -     257    257    257    257    257    257    513
Roads                                          -       -       -        -        -       72     72      72      72     72      72    143
Subtotal                                  -      --   1,419  1,419  1,419  1 419  1 419  1,419  2,838                                      HX 
Total Operating Costs                 2,820  6,451   9,722   8,226   7,964   8,757  8,106  7,440  6 747  6,747  6,736  8 155   
With devaluation adjustment           3,609  8,258  12,444  10,529  10,194  10,812  9,979  9,126  8,239  8,239  8,225  9,644



1998
1993-      &
1983   1984   1985    1986    1987         1988     1989   1990   1991   1992  1997   onward
Total physical inputs                           1,511  3,817  5,464   4,842   4,331         3,628  3,628  3,250  2,885  2,885  2,876  2,876
Incremental                                     1,511  2,306  1,648    -623    -511    -364-   -339   -337   -365                0      -9        0
% capitalized incremental                          25      25      25        -         -         -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Physical working capital                          378     576    412         -
Less Capitalized Costs
Labor                                           398     525    639       402
Physical working capital                        378     576    412         0        -          -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Subtotal                                  776  1,101  1,051        402
Net operating costs                     2,044  5,350  8,671    7,824   7964    875   8,106  7,440  6 747  6,747  6 736  8,155
With devaluation adjustment             2,833  7,156 11,393  10,127  10,194    10,812  9,979  9,126  8,239  8,239  8,225  9,644
Residual Values in Year 2008
PTP vehicles, machinery & equipment /m            -       -       -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  5,454
Buildings & utilities /m                          -       -       -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  5,131
PTP roads  /n                                     -       -       -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  2,846
Physical inputs /n                                -               -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  1,698
Factory /o                                                -           -         -        -    -        -       -       -       -         33,642                      1
Land development (PTP) /n                         -       _       -        -        -          -                                       -  1, 271
Total Residual Values (PTP)                 -       -       -        -         -         -       -       -       -       -       - 50,042                      oo
Smallholder roads /n                              -       -                -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  4,979                      1
Land development (smallholder) /n                     -           -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -       -  2,468
Total Residual Values /p-                                   -        -         -         -       -       -       -       -       - 57,489
To Derive Economic Values
Net financial operating  costs               2,044  5,350  8,670   7,824   7,964    8,757  8,106  7,440  6,747  6,747  6,736  8,155
Less 25% of labor costs                         327     659  1,064       846      908       843    765    693    611         611     610    610
Net Economic Values                     1,717  4,691  7,607   6,978    7,056        7 056  7 914  7 341  6 747  6.136  6 126  7,545
With devaluation adjustment             2,424  6,333 10,063   9,070   9,059         9,758  9,023  8,260  7,475  7 475  7,462  8,881
/a  Details in Staff Working Papers.
7i  Rp 210,000 x nucleus estate-managed area (x 2 for first three years).
77  Rp 146 x nucleus estate-managed sugarcane area.
77  Rp 33,000 x nucleus estate-managed sugarcane area.
7T   Rp 9,000 x smallholder sugarcane area.
7T  Rp 145 in 1983, Rp 725 in 1984/85, and Rp 1,450 in 1986 and thereafter per ton of total cane.
7j Rp 4,000 per ton of total sugar.
7i;  Rp 55,400 in 1983, Rp 227,000 in 1984/85, and Rp 554,000 from 1986 on.
7T  Rp 27,000 in 1983, Rp 139,000 in 1984/85, and Rp 554,000 from 1986 on.
f   The 39% devaluation of the rupiah on March 30, 1983 has beea  taken into account as follows:  (i) assuming 20% of operation
costs as foreign, these were Increased by 39%; (ii) local costs are assumed to have increased by 25% to reflect relative
change in local costs from the immediate postdevaluation levels, expected after the full effects of the devaluation work
themselves out.  For example, devaluation adlustments for 1983 operating costs before replacement yielded: (2,820 x 20% x
1.39) = (2,820 x 80% x 1.23) = 3,609.
/k  l10o of capital costs in year 6-15; 20% thereafter.
7Ti 2.5% of capital costs in year 6-15; 5% therafter.
7T   50% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
7T   100% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
7T   75% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
TP  For ERR calculations.
May  6, 1983



49 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 4
IND. OESI 
NUCLEUS ESTATrE AND S9ALLiIOLDER SU(AR PROJECT
Est[matedl Schedule of Disbursements /a
Cumulative lisbursemlents                  Area
NES         develoument
IBRD fiscal year                                      projec's        projects /b
and semester          (US$ million) lb   (%)          (%)              (%)
FY34
First                 11.1/c           14          -              0.7
Second                27.1             34          1                 4
FY85
First                37.9              43           4               9
Second                57.4             73         11               15
FPY86
F4rst                 70.5             89         21               22
Second               73.2              93         31                30
'FY87
First                 75.1             95         44                39
Second                77.5             98         60                48
FY3q
First                 78.4             99         78                57
Second                79.2            100         93                74
/a  Closing Date:  June 30, 1989.
/b  Actual cumulative disbursements for AEP area development loans in
FY7(0- 0.
Ic  Includes capitalized front-end fee and FY83 second semester.
Jlne 20, 1983



Annex 2
Page 1
- 50
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS SUGAR PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Training and Research
A. Technical Assistance
1.        Sugarcane production and processing in the Other Islands consti-
tutes a challenge for the implementing agency, particularly with the timing
constraints imposed by efforts to initiate milling in time to process cane
produced in the two earlier years. The complexity of the field and factory
operations, particularly in view of the limited availability of experienced
personnel, makes the need for adequate technical assistance imperative,
particularly during the implementation period and the two initial years of
processing.
2.        While extensive use of expatriate consultants would facilitate
initial operation of the factory and management of the cane producing areas,
as well as contribute to the in-service training of national counterparts,
the project-s financial and economic viability require that such expatriate
assistance be limited to key areas where experienced support is considered
essential.
Objectives
3.        The major objectives of the consultancy services for the proposed
project would include:
(a) Establishing the new sugar project in accordance with the develop-
ment program and with a minimum of delay.
(b) Ensuring that the factory turnkey contracts are complied with
by the contractor and advising the PTP management on contractual
procedures.
(c) Ensuring that the agricultural and road construction machinery
supply contracts are complied with.
(d) Ensuring that project development is completed as economically as
possible without impairing production potential.
(e) Ensuring that the factory is operated to be obtain maximum sugar
per factory year as economically as possible.



ANNEX 2
- 51-                                 Page 2
(f) Ensuring that quality of sugar produced satifies the requirements
of the Indonesian market.
(g) Optimizing methods of cane cultivation under rainfed conditions
and establishing sound principles of ratooning.
(h) Developing an optimum system of harvesting and transport to
deliver fresh clean cane to the factory.
(i) Optimizing the layout of estate and smallholders haulage roads
and drainage systems to minimize transport distances to the
factory.
(j) Providing agricultural advice to sugarcane producing smallholders.
Advisory Services
4.        A schedule of implementation consultancy services for the proposed
project is presented in Table 1. These services include the following
consulting specialists:
5.        Project Coordinator.  The complex task of coordinating the work of
the implementation consultancy team and that of the normal factory and field
staff requires the skills of an experienced administrator who can serve as
liaison between the consultant and resident staff and between the factory
and field operations. This task is essential during the early stages of
implementation, gradually reverting to the normal functions of the estate
project manager. For this function, 30 man-months of consultant time would
be provided.
6.        Field Development Engineer.  Implementation of the sugarcane
development program for the estate and the smallholders would be the major
responsibility of this consultant. Cane area selection, field layout, land
clearing and field preparation, supplementary irrigation for seed cane
production and drainage of low-lying areas would be his major tasks, which
would be carried out in close coordination with the agronomist, the agri-
cultural mechanization engineer and the harvest and transport coordinator.
For this task, 23 man-months have been estimated as a minimum, covering the
period of land development for the first harvest.
7.        Agronomist.  Responsibilities of the consulting agronomist would
include the supervision of the applied research program to be established
jointly with BP3G in the project area to assess new varieties and determine
optimal agricultural practices, fertilizer requirements and weed, pest and
disease control.  He would also participate in the development of the cane
planting program and in the organization of the agricultural management of
the sugarcane sections and assist the project management in instituting



Annex 2
-52  -Page 3
records and controls. An important aspect of his responsibilities is the
transfer of successful agricultural practices to the smallholder extension
service for dissemination among the farmers. To inititate these tasks which
will eventually be taken over by the estate agronomist, 36 man-months of
consulting services would be provided.
8.        Smallholder Extension Specialist.  The major responsibilities of
the extension specialist include: establishment of a methodology for
providing demonstration to smallholders of the most suitable agricultural
practices for sugarcane growing under local conditions, ensuring adequate
provision of selected varieties, and providing technical advice on cane
planting and cultivation, application of fertilizers and agricultural
chemicals, and harvesting organization and maturity testing. For this work,
24 man-months would be provided, starting one year before the last portion
of the agronomist's period, to provide the necessary overlapping between the
two closely related specialists.
9.        Civil Engineer.  The consultancy services of this specialist are
required from the very onset of the project to supervise all construction
works and coordinate these works with those of the provincial departments.
These works would include main village roads, village link and field roads,
land clearing, factory and village water reservoirs, housing, public village
facilities and public utilities (water, electricity, sewage, etc.). A total
of 30 man-months for the civil engineer would be provided under the project,
beginning as early as possible in the project implementation period.
10.       Agricultural Mechanization Engineer.  The services of this
specialist are also required early in the project implementation period to
ascertain that equipment received is consistent with that ordered and that
all items are complete and in operating condition. A large proportion of
his work would be training of field staff to ensure that agricultural and
road construction equipment is operated correctly, monitoring of training
provided by the machinery and equipment suppliers, and determining addi-
tional training requirements. He would also assist the agricultural
workshop specialist in the training of all workshop and service personnel.
To achieve this, 30 man-months would be provided, running simultaneously
with the agricultural mechanization specialist.
11.       HIarvest and Transport Coordinator.  The key responsibilities of
this specialist would be largely those of training in the implementation of
the harvest and transport program, including the use of service and main-
tenance facilities and the development of preventive maintenance for
agricultural and transport equipment. These services would be provided in a
period of 6 manmonths beginning about two months before the first harvesting
season.
12.       Agricultural Workshop Specialist.  Establishment of an agricul-
tural and transport workshop and service facilities, including a spare parts



Annex 2
- 5 3                       Page 4
storage system and maximum and minimum stock control would be the major
responsibility of the workshop specialist. His work, which would largely
include training of permanent staff, would be carried out in 7 man-months
beginning shortly before the start of the first harvesting season.
13.       Senior Factory Engineer.  The contribution of the senior factory
engineer is essential from the beginning of the implementation period, as
soon as the sugar factory is being constructed. He would be responsible for
ascertaining that the terms of the turnkey contract for the processing
facilities are being complied with and once the factory is ready for
start-up, he would coordinate the work of the specialist directly related to
processing, i.e., the electrical engineer, the instrumentation and boiler
and steam specialists and the sugar process technologist. His work would
begin a few months after implementation is started and carry through to the
end of the first milling season, with a possible short visit during the
second milling season. For these tasks, 37 man-months would be provided
under the project.
14.       Electrical Engineer.  A total of 11 man-months for this specialist
would be provided, including three distinct visits to the project are: one
to review the electrical system drawings; one to review electrical work for
the factory during the year before start-up, and a final longer period
during the first milling season to ascertain proper operation of the
electrical components. A total of 13 man-months would be provided for this
purpose.
15.       Instrumentation Specialist.  Two visits by this specialist would
be provided for a total of 9 man-months with the longer period during the
first milling season and a shorter check-up visit during the second. The
instrumentation specialist would play an important role in the adjustment of
factory equipment and in the on-site training of factory staff operating
complex and modern instruments.
16.       Boiler and Steam Specialist.  This consultant is essential during
the first milling season to ensure proper operation of boilers and the steam
producing system and to monitor training provided by factory suppliers.
Proper adjustment of the factory boilers is particularly important to effi-
cient operation and to avoid serious future problems such as have occurred
in other Indonesian factories. A 7-month period during the first milling
season followed by a 2-month visit would be included, for a total of 9
man-months.
17.       Sugar Process Technologist.  Review and approval of processing
design would be the first reesponsibility of the processing specialist,
followed by a 7-month period during the first milling season and a shorter
3-month period during the second to ensure efficient operation of the sugar
process. Organizing the factory's control laboratories would also be a
responsibility of this specialist.



Annex 2
Page 5
_ 54 -
18.       Financial Controller.  The major responsibility of these consult-
ing services would be in assisting the PTP and the estate in establishing
adequate accounting and reporting system to maintain the necessary control
over project costs, revenues and inventories. This work should begin as
soon as the first disbursements under the project are made and should carry
on until a permanent PTP staff member has been properly trained for this
purpose. A total of 27 man-months would be provided for the financial
controller.
19.       The total advisory services that would be provided under the
project would represent 294 man-months.  This amount, however, provides the
minimum necessary to ensure efficient operation of the factory and manage-
ment of the sugarcane areas assuming a normal rate of development of trained
national staff to take over the project. The PTP XXIV-XXV may find it
necessary to extend part of these services after the second milling season.
Effective use of training provided under the project is a major factor in
reducing the need for extended consultancy services.
B. Training
20.       The impact of the overall sugar program in Indonesia on the avail-
ability of experienced labor, both operational and managerial, cannot be
sufficiently emphasized. To transfer staff from the existing sugar estates
in Java to the new ones constructed under the program would create a serious
disruption of ongoing sugar processing and, in the case of the agricultural
operations, would not result in necessarily increased production in the
Other Islands becuase of the different approach that needs to be taken for
sugarcane production in a completely different environment. Under these
circumstances, training of new personnel at all levels becomes a crucial
aspect not only of the proposed sugar project in Pelaihari, but for the
efficient operation of the program as a whole.
21.       An understanding of these vast requirements for training in the
sugar sector have resulted in emphasizing the need for an overall training
program which is being prepared under the Bank-assisted advisory services to
the Sugar Council Secretariat. The starting point for this program is a
study sponsored by the Dutch government in 1982 to determine the training
needs in sugar sector./l The training requirements of the proposed NES
Sugar Project would be regarded in the context of this overall training
program, although to insure successful implementation of the project, the
basic training needs for this implementation would be considered as an
inseparable part of the project and financed under the proposeed loan. To
/1 Pre-Feasibility Study on the Training Requirements for Personnel of the
Sugar Industry in Indonesia (DGIS Mission, February-March 1982).



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
reduce the cost of this training component, the implementing PTP would be
urged to make full use of the available training facilities in Indonesia,
particularly of the Estates Training Institute (LPP) in Jogjakarta and Medan
for managerial and technical staff and of the existing sugar estates and
factories under the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) in Java for field
and factory on-the-job training. Additional but essential training would be
provided under the consultancy services as well as by suppliers of
processing facilities, and agricultural and road construction equipment and
machinery. Other specialized institutions involved in training in the sugar
sector are the Sugar Research Station at Pasuruan, East Java (BP3C), the
Institute for Instrumentation at Bandung (IIB), the Training Office for
Industrial Technicians (BLKI) and the Center for Topographic Training
(PUSDIKTOP).
Pelaihari Project Training
22.       Training for the proposed project would include training in
Indonesia for staff and non-staff personnel and overseas training for PTP
XXIV-XXV advisory staff and for staff directly involved in the project. In
addition, a short English language course would be provided for project
staff participating in the overseas training. The total training program
would provide up to 2,540 man-weeks of training for both staff and nonr-staff
personnel. Table 2 summarizes the proposed project training component,
excluding training from consultancy services or equipment and machinery
suppliers.
Training in Indonesia
23.       The use of Indonesian training facilitiees (LPP, IIB, BP3G, BLKI,
PUSDIKTOP) would include staff training for:
(a)  Administrative and Factory Staff (46)
General Manager, Administration Manager, accountants, machine/
computer operator, sugar storage and procurement officers,
stores supervisor, Factory Manager, Chief Engineer, engineers
and foremen, instrument technician, Chief Chemist, laboratory and
shift chemists, process foremen, laboratory analyst, weighbridge
and toolroom clerks and draftsmen.
(b)  Agriculture and Mechanization Staff (49)
Agricultural Manager, Nucleus Estate Manager, Farmers Area and
Farmers Liaison managers, field superintendents, research manager,
agronomist and laboratory technician, field supervisors, transport
and maintenance managers, equipment, cane transport, workshop and
servicing supervisors and agricultural engineer.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
Of the administrative and factory staff, 36 would also take special field
study courses, as would 27 of the agriculture and mechanization staff. The
total Indonesian staff training component would include 95 project staff for
a total of 1,496 man-weeks.
24.       Training for non-staff personnel using the same facilities in
Indonesia would include:
(a)  Factory Personnel (65)
Mill station, powerhouse, boiler and processing foremen,
instumentalist, workshop foremen and engineers, juice scale,
heater, sulphitation, clarification, filtration evaporator
station, crystallizer, centrifugal, sugar drying and packing
operators, lime station and pan boiling operators.
(b)  Agriculture and Mechanization Non-Staff Personnel (58)
Grader operators, road truck drivers, mechanics, service
mechanics, auto electricians, welders/fitters, tire repair
fitters, lubrication servicemen and mechanization and
agricultural foremen.
All factory non-staff perosnnel would receive special field/factory study
courses while 45 of the agriculture and mechnization non-staff personnel
would receive suppliers training for their respective equipment. A total
of 123 non-staff personnel would be trained in Indonesia up to a total of
950 man-weeks. In addition, some 20 heavy-duty operators, 113 wheeled-
tractor drivers and 44 road truck drivers would receive on-site training
from the project's own training facilities.
Overseas Training
25.       In addition to training in Indonesian facilities, overseas train-
ing would be provided for nine Surabaya-based PTP XXIV-XXV advisory staff
and 11 project staff for a total of 150 man-weeks, including training in
English language for the 11 project staff personnel. Overseas training
would be applied to familiarize PTP and project staff with specific aspects
of the sugar industry in countries with problems similar to those
encountered in the proposed project. Recommended countries for specific
disciplines would be: (a) Mauritius, for management, agronomy, factory
milling and engineering, sugar process control and cane transport aspects;
(b) Swaziland, for management, field mechanization and harvesting, civil
engineering and ancillary infrastructure; (c) Australia, for cane harvesting
and mechanization and factory instrumentation; (d) United Kingdom, for
training management, preventative maintenance, instrumentation, energy
economy and computer systems for the sugar industry; and (e) Louisiana,
U.S.A., for project management, computer systems for project control and
agricultural mechanization. Training of the PTP advisory staff would be
financed through the overall sugar training program.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
26.       The overseas training component would be implemented as required
prior to or during the initial stages of factory operation and both the
Indonesian and external training would be coordinated, to the extent
possible, with the training program for the overall sugar development
program to avoid serious discrepancies which might affect the fungibility of
staff among the various sugar projects.
C. Agricultural Research
27.       Varietal trials have been conducted in the Pelaihari area for a
period of five years and these trials have resulted in selection of three
varieties to be multiplied for cane seed under the proposed project. It is
clearly understood, however, that with the limited experience in sugarcane
growing in the Other Islands, agricultural research would be a continuous
activity not only for this project but for the overall sugar development
program in Indonesia. Terms of reference for the advisory services to the
Sugar Council Secretariat include the preparation of an overall research
program for which the Sugarcane Experiment Station at Pausuruan has already
prepared a draft proposal. This proposal includes trial areas in six
locations throughout the Other Islands, including the Pelaihari site.
26.       Research required to improve productivity and rendement of the
sugarcane crops under new ecological conditions include not only continuous
trials and selection of new varieties, but research on agronomic practices,
fertilization and mechanization, crop protection, sugar technology and cane
production management. All these aspects are included in the BP3G proposal
for the overall program. Since implementation of this program is not
expected for at least another year, the agricultural research requirements
of the proposed project in Pelaihari would be contemplated within the
project itself, although technical guidance would be provided by the
Pasuruan sugarcane station, thus ensuring coordination of these activities
with those of the major sectoral research program.
Pelaihari Research Activities
29.       Under the proposed project, 600 hectares are provided for seed
garden, the central core of which would be the Tambang-Ulang nursery. This
area is larger than needed for seed cane production and the purpose is to
allow the necessary land for varietal trials and agronomic and mechanization
research without disruption of normal production operations. In addition,
laboratory facilities and equipment would be provided to complete field
research activities.
30.       Research activities would be under the responsibility of the Site
Mlanager, with technical direction, under BP3G guidance, from the agronomist,
the field development engineer, agricultural mechanization engineer and



_58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
harvest and transport coordinator (paras. 6, 7, 10, 11). Closely related to
the research program would be the smallholder extension specialist (para. 8)
responsible for the transfer of technology resulting from the agricultural
research to the project related smallholders.
31.       Participation of BP3G in establishing and monitoring the agricul-
tural research activities in the project would be the subject of an
agreement between PTP XXIV-XXV and the Pasuruan research station. This
participation would begin with the preparation of a short-, medium- and
long-term research programs jointly with the project technicians and
technical advisors and would continue with periodic visits by BP3G staff to
the project site to monitor results of the research activities.  BP3G
involvement is particularly essential to varietal trials since all new
varieties tested would be imported through the experiment station-s channels
and facilities.
32.       The major objectives of the project research activities would
include:
(a) Obtaining agronomic information on new varieties to select
the most suitable for bulking up and distribution for
commercial planting; selection to be based on maximum yields
and rendement, longest ratooning practice, and resistance to
pests and diseases.
(b) Identifying the most suitable agricultural practices for
land preparation, planting, weeding, hilling-up, cane
cutting, cultivating, ratooning, etc.
(c) Improving fertilizing, liming, and pest and disease control
practices.
(d) Improving cane cutting and transport practices.
33.       To achieve these objectives, the following activities would be
part of the proposed project research program. These activities would be
adjusted and modified as required in the joint research program prepared by
BP3G, the project technical staff and advisory services staff.
(a) Construction of a small research facility (office, laboratory,
etc.).
(b) Purchase of laboratory equipment for soil physical and chemical
analysis, leaf analysis, etc.
(c) Establishment of varietal trial plots and replication plots for
fertilizer, herbicide, pest and disease control, liming, etc.
trials.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10
(d) Establishment of trial fields for agricultural practices (land
preparation, planting, weeding, hilling up, can cutting, ratoon
cultivation, etc.
34.       Table 3 presents the major subcomponents of the proposed project
research and their respective costs. Details for these items would be
provided in the research program prepared by BP3G and the project's
technical staff.
35.       Eventually, when the Sugar Development Research Program has been
established under the umbrella of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD), the facilities provided under the project would become
integrated into the research network for rainfed sugarcane in the Other
Islands.
May 1983



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Consultancy Services
1983       1984           1985            1986           1987           1988         Total
JASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND Man- months
Project Coordinator                  xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxx                                                  30
Field Development Engineer           xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxx                                                           23
Agronnomist                          xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxx                                            36
Extension Specialist                                            xxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxx                               24
Civil Engineer                       xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxx                                                  30
Agri. Machanization Engineer         xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxx                                                  30
Agri. Workshop Specialist                                                    xxxxxxx                                        7
Harvest & Trans. Coordinator                                                xxxxxx          xxx                             9
Senior Factory Engineer              xxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxxxxx                                           37
Electrical Engineer                        xx                   xx         xxxxxxx           xx                            13
Instrumentation Specialist                                                 xxxxx             xx                             7
Boiler & Steam Specialist                                                  xxxxxxx           xx                             9
Sugar Process Engineer                     xx                              xxxxxxx          xxx                            12
Financial controller                 xxx  xxxxxxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxxxxx                                                       17
Total                                                                                                           294
-  ISz



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Personnel Training
No.       Man-
Personnel                         trainee    weeks            Training subject                           Training source
Staff Training
Administration and factory              46         726    Management, technical engineering and    LPP, LIB, BP3G BLKI
staff                                                   process, accounting, inventory, etc.
Agricultural and mechaniza-             49         770    Management, land clearing, rainfed              LPP, PUSDIKTOP, BP3G
tion staff
Subtotal                          95       1,496
0'
Nonstaff Training
Factory nonstaff personnel              65         618    Factory management and sugar process            LPP and others
Agricultural and mechaniza-             58         332    Mechanical engineering, machinery               LPP, Bina Marga and
tion nonstaff personnel                                 operation and maintenance etc.                 others
Subtotal                         123         950
Overseas Training for Project             11          94    Management, agronomy, factory milling
staff                                                      and engineering, instrumentation,
Harvesting and transport, computer
system, etc.
Total Project Training                     2,540
M >1



62                                ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Land Development Schedule /a
(ha)
Project year
1983   1984   1985   1986    1987    Total
Nucleus estate & seed nursery    1,300  1,800  1,500            -        -   4,600
Existing farmers                        -    300    900        700       -   1,900
Existing transmigrants                200    800    300         -        -   1,300
New settlers                            -       -    400   2,100   2,100   4,600
Annual Total                   1,500  2,900  3,100   2,800   2,100  12,400
Cumulative Total               1,500  4,400  7,500  10,300  12,400  12,400
/a October - March planting season.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Sugarcane Harvesting Schedule
(ha)
1985           1986           1987         1988+
Nucleus estate                   2,000           2,600         2,600          2,600
Existing farmers                   100             800         1,200          1,200
Existing transmigrants             500             800           800            800
New settlers                         -             300           900          3,000
Total Harvested             2,600          4,500          5,500          7,600



ANNEX 4
Table 1
- 64 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Historical and Projected Spot Prices of Internationally Traded Sugar
(US$/ton; FOB Caribbean port)
Actual                                Projected
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982    1983  1985  1990  1995
Current             449   225   179   172   213   632   374   190          210   467   624   835
Constant (1981)    672   243   198   198   220   602   374   189           196   372   372   372
Constant (1983)       -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      210   398   398   398
Source: World Bank Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets (12/1/82).



-  65                               ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Derivation of Sugar Economic Prices
1983        1985
US$/ton
F.o.b. Caribbean port raw sugar /a                  210          398
Refining to plantation white grade /b               +34          +34
Freight + insurance /c                              +45          +45
C.i.f. Banjarmasin                             289          477
RpO000/ton
C.i.f. value Banjarmasin /d                         298          463
Port handling, bagging and storage                  +11          +11
Drying + weight loss                                +19          +19
Cost, ex-BULOG store, Banjarmasin              328          493
Haulage from factory to BULOG store                  -6          - 6
BULOG charges /e                                    -11          -11
Price ex-factory, Pelaihari                    311          476
/a  In 1983 constant US$; also see Annex 10, Table 2.
lb  Cost required to make plantation white grade (such as would be
produced at the Pelaihari factory) out of standard raw sugar.
/c  From traditional suppliers (India, the Philippines), includ-
ing allowances for transhipment within Indonesia.
/d  @ Rp 970 = US$1.
/e  Bags, storage, BULOG fee, but excluding government taxes.



-66 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Historical and Projected Prices of Exported Indonesian Molasses
(US$/ton; FOB Indonesian port)
Actual                                 Projected /a,/b
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982    1985  1990  1995
Current              55    28    38    29    48    73   111    71    31           82   109   146
Constant (1981)/c   95    42    56    39    55    75   105    71    31            65    65    65
Constant (1983)       -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -      68    68    68
/a  There is no need to make projections for 1983/84 as molasses production for the project
will start in 1985 at the earliest.
/b  From 1975 to 1982 the ratio of spot sugar prices to expected Indonesian molasses prices
averaged 5.7. Thus, projected molasses prices were derived by dividing projected sugar
prices by 5.7.
/c  Using Manufacturing Unit Value Index (MUV), 1955-95 per World Bank Quarterly Review of
Commodity Markets (12/1/82).                   I
Source: P.T. Agriconsult Final Feasibility Report (August 1982) and above notes.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Derivation of Molasses Economic and Financial Prices
(in 1983 constant values)
Rp'000/ton
Derivation of Molasses Economic Price
Value f.o.b. Banjarmasin /a (US$68/ton)                          66 /b
Less:  Port handling and storage                                -13
Transport from sugar factor                             -10
Value ex-Pelaihari factory                               43
Derivation of Molasses Financial Price
PTP XXIV-XXV exports 87% of its molasses.
If this same proportion holds true for the
Pelaihari factory, then the financial price
can be calculated as:
87% x 43    -                                             37
13% x 50 /c                                               +7
Weighted average price ex-Pelaihari factory              46
/a Price projected over life of project. See Annex 10, Table 3
and using Manufacturing Unit Value Index (MUV), 1955-95, per
World Bank Quarter Review of Commodity Markets (12/01/82).
/b US$1.00 = Rp 970
/c Government-controlled official ex-factory price for domestic
sales.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Summary of PTP XXIV-XXV Financial Results
1978      1979      1980      1981       1982
---------------(Rp million)---------------
Profit and Loss
Sugar sales                        28,496   35,379   56,699   78,753   117,942
Profit before dividends & tax   (1,633)   1,089    5,451    9,240    10,382
Balance Sheet
Current assets                     17,977   16,280   21,043   27,533    35,132
Current liabilities                18,384    9,711    5,379    8,505         9,422
Term debt                          24,623   26,342   26,531   23,488    24,506
Capital and reserves               12,125   41,123   46,623   56,847    70,179
Total assets                       55,134   77,175   78,527   88,832   104,106
Ratios
Current                             1.0:1    1.7:1    3.9:1    3.2:1    3.7:1
Quick                               0.1:1    0.3:1    2.0:1    1.5:1    1.8:1
Total debt:total assets             0.8:1    0.5:1    0.4:1    0.4:1    0.3:1
Return on sales (%)                  (0.6)      2.8       9.6      10.0       7.5
Return on equity (%)                 (0.1)      2.7      13.3      18.8      14.8
Debt:equity                         3.5:1    0.9:1    0.7:1    0.6:1    0.5:1
Equity:total assets (%)              22.0      53.3      59.4      64.0      67.3



ANNEX 5
- 69 -                                      Table 2
Page I
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Year End Balance Sheet - PTP XXIV-XXV
(Rp million)
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982
Current Assets
Cash on hand & in banks                   169       162       226      186    3,646    8,425   10,275
Time deposits & other securities           21        21        21        21        25        -       831
Accounts receivable (less doubt-
ful account)                          1,224    1,288    1,498    2,176    6,534    2,205    3,716
Finished goods (less write-off
on unusable goods)                      341       914    2,603    3,766        784       851    1,765
Current account of other Govern-
ment enterprises                          -         -       176      468       478    1,441    1,377
Prepaid taxes                               -         -       593       136       140      584       471
Materials and supplies                 16,716   14,328    6,190    5,893    4,720    4,258    3,896
Immature cane plantations                   -                        3,634    4,716    9,769   12,801
Deferred charges current portion        8,524    7,763    6,670           -         -        -         -
Total Current Assets               26,995   24,476   17,977   16,280   21,043   27,533   35,132
Participations
At cost                                14,431   19,649   42,173         102      102       102       102
Accumulated depreciation               (2,804)  (5,389) (10,097)    (102)    (102)    (102)    (102)
Book Value-Participations          11,627   14,260   32,076          -         -         -         -
Fixed Assets
Land                                                                    125      130       129       144
Buildings & improvements                                             3,993    4,008    4,187    5,659
Machinery & installations                                           49,298   49,709   51,222   58,501
Roads and bridges                                                    4,846    4,928    4,981    5,845
Vehicles                                                              2,118    2,293    2,340    2,941
Farming tools                                                           918    1,004    1,486    1,983
Office and house furnitures                                             248       267      346       575
Subtotal                            5,071   12,721          -   61,546   62,339   64,691   75,648
Accumulated depreciation                  (14)    (398)             (5,377) (10,756) (16,457) (22,603)
Subtotal                            5,057   12,323         -   56,169   51,583   48,234   53,045
Unproductive assets                         -         -         -        12        12       12        12
Less:  write-off on unpro-
ductive assets                            -         -         -       (12)     (12)      (12)      (12)
Book Value-Fixed Assets             5,057   12,323         -   56,251   51,501   48,234   53,045
Other Assets
Construction in progress                    -         -       380       541    1,231    4,182    9,807
Formulation exenses, book value             -        88        77        66        55       44        33
Interest capitalized, book value            -         -    3,474    3,090    2,701    2,315    2,104
Exchange rate differences, book
value                                     -         -         -         -      396       356       317
Immature plantations, noncurrent
portion, book value                   1,776    1,310    1,150    1,023    1,509    6,162    3,660
Deposit money                               -         -         -         6         9         3        4
Commemorative coins TMII                    -         -         -         -         -         3        4
Total Other Assets                  1,776    1,398    5,081    4,726    5,901   13,065   15,929
TOTAL ASSETS                       45,455   52,457   55,134   77,175   78,527   88,832  104,106



- 70-                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 2
Year End Balance Sheet - PTP XXIV - XXV
(Rp million)
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                         1,431    1,606    2,508    3,825          800       823    1,759
Taxes payable                            1,580       625    1,258        659       198    1,173    1,065
Loans from Bank
Working capital                       12,940   11,705   11,779       1,011         -         -         -
Current portion of long-term
loan                                1,093        851    1,322    2,693    2,886    3,994    4,329
Accrued interest on bank loan            599       375       364       380       331       215       775
Current account with other
Government-s enterprises                  (1)      300       619       633       542        24        25
Dividend's payable                         883       878       534         -         -          -      429
Pension plan                                 -       228         -         -         -          -         -
Accrued expenses                             -         -         -       570       622       999    1,040
Provision for corporate tax                  -         -         -         -         -    1,277          -
Total Current Liabilities          18,525   16,568   18,384    9,711    5,379    8,505    9,422
Long Term Bank Loans
Non-rehab. project loans                   327       760       635       510       405       388       328
Rehab. project loans
Foreign loans                         12,257   15,961   14,869   14,708   14,479   13,160   15,227
Domestic loans                         2,688    4,949    9,119   10,662   11,198    9,510    8,521
Premerger profit appropriations            -       366         -       462       449       430       430
Total Long-Term Liabilities        15,272   22,036   24,623   26,342   26,531   23,488   24,506
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  33,797   38,604   43,007   36,053   31,910   31,993   33,928
Owner's Equity
Share Capital
Authorized, issued and fully
paid in capital 12,800 shares
per value Rp 1 million each
(Preference shares (2,560)
Common shares (10,240))           12,800   12,800   12,800   12,800   12,800   12,800   12,800
Governments additional capital             -         -         -         -         -    2,732    7,432
General reserve                          934    1,428    1,428    3,523    1,031    6,089   12,243
Net profit (loss) at end of year  (2,078)         (375)  (2,103)   1,089    5,489    7,923    8,945
Fixed assets revaluation reserve           -         -         -   27,303   27,303   27,303   27,303
Cumulative losses previous year            -         -         -   (3,592)         -         -         -
Total Shareholders Equity          11,655   13,853   12,125   41,123   46,623   56,847   70,179
Errors and Omissions                          3       -         2         (1)       (6)       (8)          1
Total Liabilities and
Shareholder's equity             45,455   52,457   55,134   77,175   78,527   88,832  104,108



ANNEX 5
- 71 -                                                Table 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
PTP XXIV - XXV Year-end Profit and Loss Statement
(Rp million)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
Sugar sales                         24,185    29,030    28,496    35,379    56,699    78,753   117,942
Cost of sales                       (22,097)  (24,489)  (25,959)  (30,051)   (52,016)  (63,911)   (95,047)
Gross Profit                    2,088      4,541      2,537       5,328      4,683    14,842    22,895
General & admin. expenses            (1,714)    (1,712)    (1,072)    (1,277)    (1,547)    (2,013)    (6,558)
Operating Profit (Loss)           374      2,829      1,465       4,051      3,136    12,829      16,337
Other income
Molasses                              437      1,061      1,354      2,960      5,482      2,890      3,225
Transportation                         20          -          -                -                -          -
Godown rental                         114         82         68         71         49         87         308
Additional sugar price                  -          -          -          -      4,471        644           -
Hospital                                -          -          -          -        448        327         648
Other non-operating income            172        361        406        296        330        490      1,651
Total Other Income                743      1,504      1,828       3,327    10,780       4,437      5,832
Other expenses
Molasses                                -          -          -          -    (2,722)    (2,101)    (3,541)
Interest on loans                 (2,018)    (2,571)    (4,152)    (5,313)    (3,673)    (3,274)    (3,534)
Hospital                              (29)       (48)       (49)       (77)      (445)      (600)       (771)
Other                                (112)      (127)      (725)      (899)   (1,625)    (2,051)    (3,941)
Total Other Expenses           (2,159)    (2,746)    (4,926)    (6,289)    (8,465)    (8,026)  (11,787)
Total other income (expenses)        (1,416)    (1,242)    (3,098)    (2,962)     2,315     (3,589)    (5,955)
Profit (loss) before taxes           (1,042)     1,587     (1,633)     1,089      5,451      9,240    10,382
Provision for corporate tax               -          -          -          -           -    (1,277)    (1,456)
Net Profit (Loss)              (1,042)     1,587     (1,633)      1,089      5,451      7,963      8,926



ANNEX 5
- 72 -                                     Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Project Income Statement and Cash Flow
(Rp billion, constant 1983 costs)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
INCOME
Sales /a                           -      -    12.1  19.4  27.5  28.4  28.9  29.1  29.6  29.6
Costs
Payments to smallholders /a    -        -     1.2   2.5   5.2   6.0   7.8   8.3  10.0  10.0
Operating costs /b               -      -    11.4  10.1  10.2  10.8   9.9   9.1   8.2   8.2
Interest expense7Te /g           -      -     0.1   0.1   -       8.0   7.4   7.0   6.5   6.0
Depreciation                     -      -     -      3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Total                          -      -    12.7  15.7  18.4  27.8  28.1  27.4  27.7  27.2
Profit before tax                -      -      [.6]  3.7   9.1   0.6   0.8   1.7   1.9   2.4
CASH FLOW
Inflow
Profit before tax & depr.        -      -      [.6]  6.7  12.1   3.6   3.8   4.7   4.9   5.4
Long-term loan/equity /c        14.3  27.8  23.3   4.4   3.4   -        -      -      -     -
Short-term loan /d                            0.6
Total                         14.3  27.8  23.3  11.1  15.5   3.6   3.8   4.7   4.9   5.4
Outflow
Investment costs /f             14.3  27.8  23.3   4.4   3.4   -        -      -     -      -
Principal repayments /g          -      -     -      -     -      2.0   1.7   1.6   1.6   1.5
Short-term loan repayment        -      -     -      0.6   -
Total                         14.3  27.8  23.3   5.0   3.4   2.0   1.7   1.6   1.6   1.5
Cash surplus/deficit             0      0     0      6.1  12.1   1.6   2.1   3.1   3.3   3.9
Cumulative                       0      0     0      6.1  18.2  19.8  21.9  25.0  28.3  32.2
/a  Annex 5, Table 5.
/b  Annex 1, Table 3.  1983 & 1984 operating costs are included in investment costs.
7i  50% loan, 50% equity.
/d  Short-term loan to cover deficit of Rp 0.6 billion.
/e  Short-term loan interest in 1985/86 and long-term loan interest from 1988 onwards.
7?  Annex 1, Table 2; total nucleus estate base costs plus physical contingencies.
/g  Amortization at 13.5% with 5 years grace and 15 years repayment.  Amortization (princi-
pal and interest) deflated at 8% to express in constant terms.
May 6, 1983



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Financial Costs and Benefits of Project for PTP XXIV-XXV
(Rp million)
1991    1993    1998-
1983       1984       1985     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990         -92      -97    2006    2007    Totals
Costs
Capital /a                                  11,464    19,605    23,331    4,410   3,416            0        0        0        0        0        0       0   62,226
Net operating /b                              2,833      7,156    11,393   10,127  10,194  10,812   9,979   9,126   8,239   8,225   9,644   9,644  225,663
Smallholder sugar payments /c                     0          0     1,092    2,296   4,915   5,696   7,546   8,017   9,800   9,800   9,800   9,800  196,162
Smallholder molasses payments /d                  0          0         81       170     303      297      300      292      292      292     292      292    6,407
Total Costs                            14,997    2f2.61      35,897   17,003  18,828  16,805  17,825  17,435  18,331  18 ,317  19,736  19 ,736  490.458
Benefits
Sugar valuie /e                                   0          0    11,200   17,700  24,700  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  559,600   w
Molasses revenue /f                               0          0        470       743   1,037   1,063   1,063   1,063   1,063   1,063   1,063   1,063   23,503
Reimbursement for sacks /g                        0          0        118       186     259      266      266      266      266      266      266     266    5,876
Storage charges /h                                0          0         32        51       71      72       72       72       72       72       72      72    1,598
Smallholder annual recovery charges /i            0          0        328       689   1,474   1,709   2,264   2,405   2,940   2,940   2,940   2,940   58,849
Residual values /j                                0          0          0         0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0  50,000   50,000
Total Benefits                               0          0    12,148   19,369  27,542  28,409  28,964  29,106  29 ,640  29,640  29,640  79,640  699,436
Net Flows                              (14,297)  (26.761)  (23,749)   2,366   8,714  11,604  11,139  11,671  11,309  11,323   9,904  59,904  208,978
IRR of net streams = 13%.
/a  Annex 1, Table 2 (PTP items only excluding items such as smallholder roads built by the PTP but financed by GOI); adjusted for Jevaluation.
7b  Annex 1, Table 3.
7c  (Rp 476,000 per ton) x (60% of sugar output from smallholder-managed land and 25% of sugar output from nucleus estate-managed smallholder land).
/d  (Rp 50,000 per ton) x (1.5% of smallholder cane output).
7e  Rp 476,000 per ton, Annex 4, Table 2.
77  Rp 46,000 per ton, Annex 4, Table 4.
/g  Annex 1, Table 3, adjusted for devaluation.
7h  Rp 1,360 per ton of sugar.
/i  30% of smallholder sugar payments.
7]  Annex 1, Table 3.
June 20, 1983



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
PTP XXIV-XXV Sugarcane Area and Sugarcane and Sugar Production /a
Sugarcane              Sugarcane produc-              Sugar produc-
Year            area /b (ha)            tion /c ('000 tons)            tion /d (tons)
Actual
1980             28,470                      2,750                      242,302
1981             28,268                      2,661                      247,418
1982             42,037                      2,492                      311,470
Estimated
1983             49,438                      3,875                      336,284
Proj ected
1984             51,500                      4,120                      357,500
1985             54,200                      4,336                      376,200
1986             58,200                      4,656                      404,000
1987             61,300                      4,904                      425,500
1988/92          63,500                      5,080                      440,800
/a  Including Takalar and Pelaihari projects.  Assumes no further investments
after Takalar and Pelaihari.
/b  Increase between 1981 and 1982 due to completion of rehabilitation of Jati-
roto and Semboro sugar factories. Increased area from Takalar (6,000 ha) is
distributed through 1984-88 and from Pelaihari (7,600 ha) through 1985-88,
representing harvested area and excluding standover cane.
/c  Projections assume an average yield of 80 tons/ha for all PTP estates.
/d  Projections assume an average rendement of 9% for all PTP estates.
April 18, 1983



- 75 -                              MANEX 6
Page 1
I ND NESIA
NUCLE^US ESTATE AN-' SMALLHIOLDER SIJGAR PROJECT
Smallholder Credit Arrangements
1.        There are two types of credit to be exte-ded to sugar farmers:
(a) a long-term investment credit and (b) a working capital credit under the
TRI program.
(a) The investment credit covers:
(i)  house;
'i;)  land clearing for sugarcane and food crops land;
(iii) first year food crop development;
(iv)  field roads;
(v)  sAmple agriculturql tools (initial);
(vi)  cost of resettling; and
(vii) land registration/certification.
Credit terms
a.  r'payment in 1', years including 3 years grace on
principal;
b. interest at 12% p.a., with deferred payment for
interest during the 3-year grace period; and
c. detailed procedures of repayment of principal and
interest to be determined.
(b)  Working capital covers:
(i) cultivation and maintenance;
(ii) harvesting and transport;
(iii) fertilizer and pesticides (if required);



- 76 _
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(iv) seed; and
(v) overhead.
Credit terms
a. interest 12% p.a. or 1%/month;
b. repayment should consider yearly income of farmers, which
fluctuates year by year within one planting cycle
(planting cane followed by three ratoon) to get a more
even distribution of yearly income; and
c. detailed procedures (time and amount) of repayment will
be determined.
Stages of Development
2.        During the initial 2-3 years the farmer status is one of a
prospective participant. The PTP nuclear estate has responsibility for
field development. Farmers take part as labor during this stage. After the
initial period actual funds spent for smallholder investment credit will be
converted into a long-term credit. For this purpose farmers will sign a
credit agreement with BRI.
BIN4AS (Intensification Program for Food Crops)
3.        The intensification program for food crops covers:
(a) rice (irrigated or rainfed);
(b) secondary crops (maize, peanuts, soybeans, cassava, etc.); and
(c) vegetables (onions, chilis, potatoes, cabbages, tomatoes, etc.).
4.        Government provides a package credit for this program.  In
general, the package consists of fertilizers (urea, TSP, KCL), seed,
insecticides/rodenticides, spraying costs and a cost of living allowance.
The cost of living component is also intended to cover any additional costs.
5.        The amount of package credit varies, depending on crop
requirements and local conditions. For example, for irrigated paddy
(package A) it is as follows:



- 77 _
ANNEX 6
Page 3
Rp
Urea/TSP/KCL                         31,500
Insecticides                          3,000
Rodenticides                          1,000
Seed                                  6,250
Spraying cost                         2,000
Cost of living/misc. costs           20,000
Total                          63,750
In an area where fertilizer requirements are higher (package C, for example,
with 300 kg of urea and 150 kg of TSP), then the total package increases to
Rp 77,250. For a secondary crop such as maize, the package is Rp 40,625.
6.        The Bimas credit is provided by BRI.  Farmers receive from BRI a
cash loan for cultivation costs and the living allowance, plus a voucher
which authorizes the issuance of inputs (fertilizer and pesticides).
Farmers present the voucher to KUD to obtain those inputs. Repayment is
made about one month after harvest. The credit carries interest of 1% per
month, due at most seven months after receiving the package. In special
conditions, such as pest outbreaks, the credit can be extended up to two
years. In case of default, the risk is shared among BI (25%), Government
(50%) and BRI (257).
7.        Starting with the 1982/83 season, PUSKUD (Central KUD) will enter
the program as a handling agent for the credit provisions to farmers and
replace BRI in some places. The hope is that it will improve the repayment
record, as KUD is also active in rice procurement for BULOG. In this way
KUD can directly collect repayment from farmers for PUSKUD.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
New Settler Sugarcane Farm Model
Project Year
Unit    1  2   3      4      .5     6     7       8     9      10      11    12      13.
Planting /a         ha      -  -  1.5   -      -      -       0.5   0.5    0.5   -        0.5   0.5    0.5
Plant cane        ha      -  -  -      1.0   -      -      -      -      -      -       -     -       -
First ratoon      ha      -  -  -      -     1.0   0.5    -       -       0.5   0.5    -      0.5    -
Second ratoon    ha      -  -  -       -     -      0.5    0.5   0.5    -       0.5    0.5   -        0.5
Third ratoon      ha      -     -      -     -      -      0.5   0.5    0.5   -         0.5   0.5    0.5
Standover         ha      -  -  -      0.5   0.5   0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5
Yields
Plant cane      ton/ha   -  -  -    70.0   -        -      -      -      -      -       -     -       -
First ratoon   ton/ha   -  -  -        -    70.0  70.0    -       -     75.0  75.0    -    75.0    -
Second ratoon  ton/ha   -  -  -        -     -    65.0   65.0  65.0    -    65.0   65.0   -          65.0
Third ratoon   ton/ha   -  -  -        -     -      -     60.0  60.0   60.0   -        60.0  60.0   60.0
Standover       ton/ha    -  -  -      -    85.0   -      85.0   -      85.0   -       85.0   -      85.0
hiarvesting
Plant cane        ha      -  -  -      1.0   -      -      -      -      -      -       -     -       -
First ratoon      ha      -  -  -      -     0.5   0.5    -       -       0.5   0.5    -      0.5    -
Second ratoon    ha      -  -  -       -     -      0.5    0.5   0.5    -       0.5    0.5   -        0.5
Third ratoon      ha      -  -  -      -     -      -      0.5   0.5    0.5   -         0.5   0.5    0.5
Standover         ha     -  -  -      -      0.5   -       0.5   -       0.5   -        0.5   -       0.5
Production /b
Sugarcane      ton/farm  -  -  -    70.0  77.5  67.5  105.0  62.5  110.0  70.0  105.0  67.5  105.0
/a  Planting is done at the end of the dry period or beginning of the rainy season (October-January).
/b Average of a four-year cycle would be 87 tons/farm/year, with an average 1.25 ha harvested per
annum. For farm budget purposes, an average of 1 ha/year harvested is used to allow for cane
not having reached maturity, accidentally burned, etc.
April 18, 1983
o-z
-r 0



- 79
ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
New Settler Family Budget /a
(Rp'OOO)
Yr 1/b  Yr 2    Yr 3    Yrs 4-14   Yrs 15+
Cash Inflows
.;   Sugar /c                              -     793      793     1,904      1,904
Molasses /c                                -     113      113        113       113
Wages from nucleus estate and
other nonsugar income                 600      400      400       209        209
Annual TRI-credit                          -       -        -        509       509
Subsistence payment portion of
development loan                      100        -        -         -          -
Subtotal                            700   1,306   1,306       2,735      2,735
Cash Outflows
Sugarcane expenses deducted by
nucleus estate                           -       -        -       200        200
Food/cash crop expenses /d                77     153      153        153       153
Repayment of annual TRI-credit /e          -       -        -        534       534
Land tax                                   -       -        -          6          6
Subtotal                             77      153     153        893        893
Net cash inflows                           777   1,153   1,153       1,842     1,842
Value of foodcrops /d                      132     264      264        264        264
Net annual benefit (Rp'OOO)                909   1,417   1,417       2,106     2,106
Debt service on development loan /f          -        -       -        395          -
Net annual benefit after debt
service (Rp'OOO)                        909   1,417   1,417       1,711      2,106
Net annual benefit after debt
service (US$)                           937   1,461   1,461       1,764      2,171
/a Financial prices are in constant 1983 values.
Th Each settler's initial participation year.
TJ Based on 1 ha harvested per year. (Table 1).
/d Based on food/cash crop area of 0.75 ha.
Te Interest calculated in real terms, i.e., 5%.
If Fourteen-year repayment period for development loans under this project.
(in real terms, i.e., 5% interest).
June 20, 1983



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp million)
1991     1993    1998-
1983      1984      1985      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990         -92      -97    2006    2007    Totals
Costs
Capital /a                                     13,877   24,805   29,529        6,200   4,300         0        0        0        0        0        0        0   78,711
PTP operating /b                                 2,424    6,333   10,063    9,070   9,059   9,758   9,023   8,260   7,475   7,462   8,881   8,881  205,060
Smallholder sugar inputs /c                          0         0       384       768   1,536   1,792   2,304   3,071   3,071    3,071   3,071   3,071   62,062
Total Costs                               16,301   31,138   39,976   16,038  14,895  11,550  11,327  11,331  10,546  10,533  11,952  11,952  345,833
Benef its
Sugar value /d                                       0         0   11,200   17,700  24,700  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300  25,300   559,60
Molasses value /e                                    0         0       440       696      971      994     994       994      994      994      994     994   21,992
Smallholder net nonsugar incremental /f              0         0       100       600   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   24,325    o
Residual values /g                                   0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0  57,500   57,500    1
Total Benefits                                  0         0   11,740   18,996  26,796  27,419  27,419  27,419  27,419  27,419  27,419  84,919  663,417
Net Flows                                (16,301) (31,138) (28,236)   2,958  11,901  15,869  16,092  16,088  16,873  16,886  15,467  72,967  317 _58
IRR of net streams -  16%
/a  Annex 1, Table 2, plus economic assumptions in para 6.12 of text.
/b  Annex 1, Table 3.
7c  Rp 410,000 per hectare of smallholder-managed land.
7W  Rp 476,000 per ton, Annex 4, Table 2.
/e  Rp 43,000 per ton, Annex 4, Table 4.
/f  Rp 375,000 per hectare of new settler food and cashcrop land.
7g  Annex 1, Table 3.
June 20, 1983
I-. m



_ 81
ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activities                                              Target Date
1.  DGE to sign Smallholder Development Agreement
with PTP XXIV-XXV                                                 August 1983
2.  Ministry of Finance to make funds available to
PTP XXIV-XXV                                                      August 1983
3.  Bank Indonesia to sign Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with PTP XXIV-XXV                                                 August 1983
4.  Employment of implementation consultants by Team
Khusus and PTP XXIV-XXV                                           Sept. 1983
5.  First contracts for procurement of agricultural
materials and fertilizers                                         July 1983
6.  BRI to establish a credit scheme for sugarcane
smallholders under the TRI adjusted to crop cycle in
the Other Islands                                                 Sept. 1983
7.  PTP XXIV-XXV to have site manager on site no later
than:                                                             Sept. 1983
8.  Strengthening of bridges on the main access road
completed                                                         Oct. 1983
9.  Completion of an overall training program and an
overall research program for the sugar sector                     Dec. 1983
10. First contracts for new settlers housing                          July 1984
11. Completion of access road                                         May 1985
12. Commissioning of sugar factory                                    July 1985



- 82 _
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. Technical Proposal for Indonesian Sugar Projects Advisory Services
(SBPN/ABA International, Inc./John H. Payne, Inc./P.T. Indocode, December
1981).
2. Presidential Decree No. 28/1982 on Indonesia Sugar Council (Jakarta,
July 27, 1982).
3. Water Research for the Use of the Pelaihari Sugar Factory, South
Kalimantan (LAPI-ITB, Bandung, February 22, 1981).
4. Report on W4ater Supply Reconnaissance of Proposed Pelaihari Sugar
Factory, Pelaihari, South Kalimantan (LAPI - Institut Teknologi Bandung,
February 22, 1981).
5. Land Measurement and Land Use Mapping of the Pelaihari Sugar Project Area
(AGRARIA, 1981).
6.  Soil Fertility and Land Suitability Study of Pelaihari, South Kalimantan
(PTP XXIV-XXV Persero/Faculty of Agriculture, Padjadjaran University,
Bandung, January 1982).
7. Social and Economic Farm Operations Survey for Pelaihari and Sebuhur
Sugar Projects, South Kalimantan (Faculty of Agronomy UNLAM, 1982).
8. Recommended Current Actions to be Taken for the Development of the
Pelaihari and Sebuhur Projects (SKIL, Surabaya, February 14, 1982).
9. Feasibility of Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Sugar Projects in
Pelaihari and Sebuhur, South Kalimantan (P.T. Agriconsult/Hawaiian
Agronomics, Inc., July 1982).
10. Pelaihari Nucleus Estate - Smallholders Sugar Project Final Feasibility
Report - Volume I Main Report (P.T. Agriconsult International/ULG
Consultants Ltd., August 1982).
11. Pelaihari Nucleus Estate - Smallholders Sugar Project Final Feasibility
Report - Volume II Annexes 1-4 (P.T. Agriconsult International/ULG
Consultants Ltd., August 1982).



- 83 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
12. Pelaihari Nucleus Estate - Smallholders Sugar Project Final Feasibility
Report - Volume III Annexes 5-12 and Maps (P.T. Agriconsult
International/ULG Consultants Ltd., August 1982).
13. Soil Reconnaissance Survey and Land Suitability Study for Sugarcane,
Imban (North Pelaihari), South Kalimantan (PTP XXIV-XXV/Padjadjaran
University, Bandung, October 1982).
14. Pelaihari NES Sugar Project - Cane Harvesting and Transport (A.L.J.
Martin, November 8, 1982).
15. Pelaihari NES Sugar Project - Sugar Factory (F.J. Blanchard, November
8, 1982).
16. Draft Contract for Provision of Indonesian Sugar Project Advisory
Services (November 1982).
17. Draft Tender Documents for a Turnkey Cane Sugar Factory 4,000 TCD with
Easily Expandable to 5,000 TCD Capacity (3 volumes) (Department of Agri-
culture, Jakarta, November 1982).
18. Addendum to Pelaihari Nucleus Estate - Smallholders Sugar Project:
Final Feasibility Report (P.T. Agriconsult International/ULG Consultants
Ltd., January 1983).
19. Study on Packing Requirements For Sugar (P.T. Agriconsultant Interna-
tional/ULG Consultants Ltd., Jakarta, September 1982).
20. Pre-Feasibility Study on the Training Requirements for Personnel of the
Sugar Industry in Indonesia (DGIS Mission, February-March 1982).
21. Working Papers in the Project File.
1.  The Project Area
2.  Infrastructure
Table 1. Summary Land Clearing Program
Table 2. Detailed Land Clearing Program
Table 3. Machinery Output
Table 4. Machinery Requirements
Table 5.  Unit Cost of Land Development and Road Construction
Machinery
Table 6. Capital and Replacement Cost of Machinery
Table 7. Operation and Maintenance Cost of Machinery
Table 8. Unit Cost of Land Clearing
Table 9. Total Cost of Land Clearing
Table 10. Unit Cost of Field Roads
Table 11. Total Cost of Road Construction
Table 12. Road Construction: Schedule of Expenditures
Table 13. Road Maintenance: Schedule of Expenditures



- 84 -                           ANNEX 9
Table 13. Road Maintenance: Schedule of Expenditures
Table 14. Housing, Building and Utilities Requirements
Table 15. Housing, Buildings and Utilities Unit Costs
Table 16. Estate Village: Housing, Buildings and Utilities Require-
ments
Table 17. Settler Villages Housing and Building Requirements
Table 18. Settler Vilalges Housing and Building Schedule of
Expenditures
Table 19. Housing and Building Unit Costs
Table 20. Rangang Reservoir Operation (Preliminary Figures)
Table 21. Factory and Estate Village Water Supply: Schedule
of Expenditures
3.  Contingencies, Staff Requirements and Preoperating Costs
Table 1. Physical Contingencies
Table 2. Price Contingencies
Table 3. Foreign Exchange Percentages
Table 4. Staff Requirements
Table 5. PTP XXIV-XXV Staff and Non-Staff Grades: Annual Salaries
and Allowances
4.  The Sugar Sector
Table 1. Composition of the Indonesia Sugar Council
Table 2. Status of GOI Sugar Development Program
Table 3. Harvested Area, Production and Average Yields of
Centrifugal Sugar
Table 4. Method for Determining the Sharing of Sugar, Produced
from Farmers Cane, between Sugar Factory and Farmers
5. Agricultural Operations
Table 1. Sugarcane Development: Estate-Managed-Smallholder Land
Table 2. Sugarcane Development: Smallholder-Managed Land
Table 3. Planting and Harvesting of Cane for Milling
6.  Sugarcane Harvesting and Transport
7.  Processing Facilities
Table 1. Manpower Requirements for Processing Facilities
8.  Detailed Capital Costs Tables
22. Upgraded Financial Projections for PTP XXIV-XXV (received as a condition
of negotiations) including Project Investment Plan, Income Statements and
Balance Sheets.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Government Organization Chart
MinistrV                                         Ministry of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnstyo
Dal                                Ag~~~~~~~~~~~,riculture         (SFitackhler)Coprti
interior                                                      et Ag                                                  Coperratives
L   Ost)ther                                                                                                                       "I tz IXI(sue)1X<HA
l  \                                       _                    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roasmigajtrori I
0PlanX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bank 241
Suga I IC[                                                .nS
,,gforia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Funck 24810
y             & K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMAItHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
OGgonlzatlon and HlJr. Lowl Sto9n at hL DloApmnI
~~. [r0 KwL+I  1- 1
r4                                              (4 X    E9  1    I                                   : L  WH   XL 
u  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                          t                                                                                                                          L', [*3 44 , 
1         1lol  W0,0,                                                                                                                            00|                            c
4(4             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  -         ~          ~          ~          ~~                   ~~                  ~         ~O



_ 87 _
CHAR_ X
PELAIHARI NES SUGAR PROJECT
(4,000 TCD)
Sketch of Factory Area
Bagaas  Storoge
r  uture    _ 
|   , F                          Sollers        ~~~~~       ~       ~~Power  |    oming
| i <2 C ~~~~~~~~~~~Plant                                        |          Tower 
,~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~ Strrag_
WorkShop                  |              idgFwnab
4  ;   s Wonshae                   ]     141                  _       Clenfier     Preorvo aion   !
Parts Wyarettause              I      u
k   __   ._                            _       Kmves                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suoor
0                                                                 _                                                               Storage
Elevated Tank
I  F-uture Storage                                     Cane Storage
r(4 requ,red)
3 I
Wo,ld Sark - 24S,;O



- 88 -
CHART 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER SUGAR PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
|       F   1983      F    1984         1985      I   1986      |  1987 /h   F
11982 Il 12 13 F4 FJ  12 13 T4 Fl T2 F3 74 Fl 12 13 T4 Ii F2 13 T4 J
Directorate General of Estates
Arrange/sign project agreements /a                            I  I | xIxxxxl  F  I  I  F  Ixxxxxl  I  I  Fxxxxxl  Ixxxxxl  I
Approve work program and budget                       I       F  F  Ixxxxxl  F  I  I  F  I  F  I  I  I             F I I  I  I  I  I
Team for Externally Assisted Projects                   F       F  F      F      F            F           F       F         F  1FF
Review Work Program and Budget                        F       F  F  Ixxxxxl  Ixxxxxl  I F xxxxxl  F  F  Ixxxxxl  Ixxxxxl  F
PTP XXIV-XXV
Recruit Consultants /b                                        -------xxx
Arrange/sign project-agreement /a                     F        F       IF o xxx I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Approve Site Manager /c                               F       Ixxl  F  I  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  I  F  F
Prepare annual work program and budget Id             F       | xxxx F  I'cxxxxxl  F  |xxxx F  F  Ixxxx I  I F xxxx F  I  I
Land clearing/planting/road construction /d   F------xxxxxxxxx'xxxxxxxxxx'c'c'cxxxxxxxx'c             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Estate housing/infrastructure                         F       I  F   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx F  I  I  F  F  F  F  F  F  F
Estate water reservoir                                F       F  F  I  I  F  Ixxxxxxxxl  F  i  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F
Processing facilities                                            I F  F  Ixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxl  F  F  F  F  F  I  F  F
Smallholder housing/village infrastructure            F       F  I  F  F  F  Fxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Agricultural equipment and materials /e               I'cxxxxcxxxxxl  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  I  I  I  I  F  F  I  F  F 
Project training program                              F       | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  I
Project applied research program                      F-------xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Provincial Government                                   F       F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F
Alienate land                                         Ixxxx'cxxxxxxxl  F  F  F  F  F  F  I  I  F  F  I F  F  F  F  F  F 
Strengthen access and road bridges /f                Ixxxxxxxxxxn>xxxxxxxl  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F
Upgrade main access road                                             I F  F  F  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxl  F  F  I  F  I  F  I  F  F 
Construct village roads                               F       F  F  F  F xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Construct community facilities                        F       F  |  |  F xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Recruit new settlers                                  F       F  FI  I  I F xxxxxl  !x'xxxxl  I   xxxxxl  I  Ixxxxxl  F  I
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Prepare TRI program                                   |'cxxxxxxxxxxxxx x    I  I  I F     F  F  F  I  F  F  F  F  F  F  I  I  F
Establish settlers accounts                           F       F  F  F  F  F A   Fxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxc xxxx
Bank   Indonesia                                        F       F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F   F  F
Establish project bank account                       F           F | xxxxxl  F  I  F  F  I  I  F  F  I  F  F  I  F  F  F  F
Sugar Council Secretariat                               F       F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F  F
Prepare sugar training program  /g                    |'xxxxxxx'c'c'xxxxxxxxxxx    I  F  F  F  F  I  I  F  F  I  I  I  I  I  F  F
Prepare sugar research program                        Ixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxl  I F  F  F  F  F        I F  F    I F  F  F  F  F      I
/a  GOI/PTP Financing Agreement, Smallholder Development Agreement.
7W   Early tendering allowed to initiate advisory services early in implementation.
7T   Already appointed to supervise start-up operations.
7T   Work started under Loan 2007-IND (NES V).
7e  Procurement started under Loan 2007-IND  (NES V) for start-up operations.
7T   Work already begun in 1982.
7jg Under preparation with assistance from consultants under Loan 1499-IND (NES I).
7T   Estimated physical completion date:  December 31, 1987.



IBRD 16814
-3015                        114030     \ >                                          114045'                                               115J0O'      O               DECEMBER  1982
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,I
-rr /                                                                                                        f
/''/
-3030'                                                                                                                                                                             3030-
Ta-bakMartngar
~~ ,'   !                                              \                      PUtlUn9 \               <    S_E~~~~o.tlB~t
3045'                                                  \a                                                                               5' 3045'a
4000                                                                                                         IN O EI                                                      40
La           PELAIHARI NES SUGAnPRJEC
ms sos so, --os oseaogTson
455                                                                                                        SITES~~~~~~~~~ID NEI
eifS,ifa,s,, 5/The I~~~~~~~~~050 0,50                                           -' ~~~~PROPOSED) VILLAGESIE
2~t!-. v v
55400's                                                                                                                                                                            4o,s,0
C0005000 dTff 585555,58,                                 Batakan                                                              PROPOSED FACTORY SITE
t55 ms e 055055 ma-Ka  f                 
5if05s5t 0d5mW ores 5n/ s    rft4 ff 5                                                       /                                SU IT A B LE  C A N E  LA N D
dfryrsmt yorany 0                                                                                                  2 E t; ;   MARGINAL CANE LAND
ssSsOsSSsants fss85if0 epeg114030-                                                                                            NUCLEUS ESTATE BOUNDARY
iK ryuNr      >5 AX P4 tsPIN-s,?   ~      -                              r          -----SMALLHOLDER BLOCK BOUNDARIES
MALAYSIA   0 0'1-ne 1     .                                                                      ELEVATIONS IN METERS
100-500
I                                           .... . l , ov-s9 Iv 501-1000
/   'O-,       ,      ,       0,KILOMETERS  5    15        15                              ABOVE 1000
OuSeses  ~~     MILOEERS E. L
tfed \,:....   tr                                                                        '_Y-m  ....t tl <2  MILES   af  _  5  1  EXISTING ROADS          4015W
RIVERS
-4.',  t    <   C7;P                                                                           -----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,,   -,.   C 0' .nTtmos                          114045'                                                 1150o0



