Docae_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4300-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.9 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
April 22, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)
Calendar year 1985             March 1986
S1  =  YRls 6.41              $1  =  YRls 7.25
YR1 I  =  $0.16                YR1 I  =  $0.14
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (until 1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl                              -         barrel
toe                             -          tons oil equivalent
1 kilowatt (kW)                 -          1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                 -          1,000 kilowatts (lO3kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)           -          1,000 watt hours (103Wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)           -          1,000,000 kWh (10'kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                 -          1,000 volt (103V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)         -          1,000 volt-ampere (10 VA)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AM          Al Mukha
BC          British Council
BEI         British Electricity International Ltd.
BITS        Swedish Agency for International Technical
and Economic Cooperation
CPO         Central Planning Organization
ESB         Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
FCP         French Cooperative Program
IDB         Islamic Development Bank
LPG         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRAIC       Long Run Average Incremental Cost
LRMC        Long Run Marginal Cost
MC          Management Committee
MEW         Ministry of Electricity and Water
NEP         National Electrification Program
RK          Ras Katenib
YGEC        Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YHOC        Yemen Hunt Oil Company
YOMINCO     Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:       Special Drawing Rights 10.9 million (about $11.7 million
equivalent at negotiations).
Terms:        Standard
Beneficiary:  Yemen General Electric Corporation (YGEC)
Relending     Twenty years, including five years grace, at 9 perceat per
Terms:        annum.  The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project       The proposed project would assist YGEC to capture a larger share
Description:  of benefits accruing from the Corporation's investment in more
efficient generating and transmission facilities. The project
would consist of plant, works and services required for:
(a) the connection to the national grid of towns and villages
situated in the areas of Dhamar. Ibb, Rada'a, Yarim, Thila,
Hababah, Shibam, Raydah, Khamer and Sanhan; (b) the extension
of the distribution system of the isolated generating station
at Al Beida, and installation of an isolated power station and
the associated distribution system at Al Fara and Al Manqate;
(c) the construction of a meter laboratory in the area of
Sana'a; (d) the replacement of old electricity meters; and
Ce) the improvement of YGEC's technical, financial and
administrative capabilities by providing funds for construction
supervision, training, experts' assistance and the second phase
of YGEC's findncial recovery consultancy contract.
Benefits:     When completed, the proposed project would initially extend
electricity service to about 23,000 new consumers (potential
consumers are estimated at about 41,000), ensure 24-hour
supply, and improve the quality of service to more than 15,000
existing consumers. It would enable YGEC to improve its
minagement capabilities, reduce the losses of its system,
increase sales and revenues, and achieve fuel savings, both by
operating steam units more efficiently and by supplying
auto-producers who would otherwise be using diesel oil.
Risks:        There are no major risks associated with the proposed project.
However, delays in the implementation of the project, and the
uncertainty surrounding the load forecast and projected
electricity sales could have an adverse impact on the economic
return on the investment. To reduce the first risk, the
project cost estimates have been derived on the basis of a
This docunent has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Dank authoriton.



(ii)
7-year implementation schedule which is based on the regional
power subsector project imple-metation profile, although a
project similar to the one proposed (Credit 1102-YAR) was
completed within ! years. Regarding anticipated electricity
sales. a sensitivity analysis indicates that even with a 10
percent reduction in sales, the proposed project would remain
economically viable.
Estimated Costl':                          Local      Forelin       Local
A. Electrification Area 1
Equipment and materials                -            5.5          5.5
Erection and installation               3.9         8.6         12.5
Generators                             -            0.6          0.6
Neters                                              1.0          1.0
Sub-total                          3.9         15.7         19.6
B. Electrification Area 2
Equipment and materials                -            3.5          3.5
Erection and installation              2.0          4.3          6.3
Sub-total                          2.0          7.8          9.8
C. Electrification Area 3
Equipment and materials                -            2.3          2.3
Erection and installation               1.3         2.8          4.1
Sub-total                          1.3          5.1          6.4
D. Technical Assistance
Construction Supervision                0.3         1.6           1.9
Financial Recovery PLan                0.2          1.1          1.3
Meter Laboratory                        0.4         0.2          0.6
Sub-total                          0.9          2.9          3.8
E. Training
Expert Assistance                      0.2          1.3          1.5
Meters                                  -           0.2          0.2
Training                               -            0.5          0.5
Sub-total                          0.2          2.0          2.2
Base Cost                          8.3         33.5         41.8
Physical contingencies                 0.8          3.1          3.9
Price contingencies                     2.6        10.6          13.2
Total Financing Required               11.7        47.2         58.9
V/ Excludes customs duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.



(ii i)
Local      ForeiRn        Total
$ million
Financing Plan
Swedish Agency for International Technical
and Economic Corporation (BITS)              -          11.1          11.1
Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (AFESD)                                     14.5          14.5
Islamic Development Bank (IDB)                -          10.5          10.5
International Development Association        0.6         11.1          11.7
Government & YGEC                           11.1                       11.1
11.7        47.2          58.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
$ million
Annual                                0.70  2.11  2.98  2.63  1.76  1.11  0.41
Cumulative                            0.70  2.81  5.79  8.42 10.18 11.29 11.70
Rate of Return:           16 percent
staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5802-YAR, dated April 9, 1986



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yeœmen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 10.9 million (approximately US$11.7 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Fourth Power project. The Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Islamic Development Bank
(IDB), and the Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic
Cooperation (BITS) are expected to participate in the project's financing in
the amounts of $14.5 million, $10.5 million and $11.1 million equivalent
respectively. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-'
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 5621-YAR) dated March 17, 1986
has recently been distributed to the Executive Directors Country data are
attached in Annex I.
introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of
public institutions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have
provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors.
Under the Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
-' Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-4244-YAR),
dated March 3, 1986, for the Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development
Project approved by the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986.



- 2 -
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflov of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1984. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1984 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family and tribal ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late seventies, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth
set in mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of vorkers'
remittances. The early eighties witnessed a marked deterioration in the
macrofinancial situation, as publlc investment and associated recurrent
expenditures exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports
resulted in a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was
aggravated by the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil
exporting countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the var in the
Gulf. Yet. inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because
imports were cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most
currencies (except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation
was obtained at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983 and 1984, the YAR economy slowed down considerably, as a
result of the Government's efforts to cool down the economy and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982, and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and 1984, cutting the gross output
of cereals by more than half in 1983. However, increased grain imports kept
food availability at a normal level.
7.      In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue. These measures resulted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983 and 1984. Yet inflation was significantly higher
in 1984, rising to about 13 percent mainly because of the 30 percent
cumulative devaluation of the Yemeni rial. This devaluation, and the import
restriction measures taken by the Government, resulted in a large decline in
imports and a marked improvement in the balance of payments in 1984.
However, the budget deficit still represented about 26 percent of GDP in 1984
and official grants, which continued to decrease, are unlikely to return to
their previous high levels. The Government rightly intends to continue its
stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic resource
mobilization, while maintaining the flexible exchange rate policy adopted
recently. This should help to continue to improve the external finances and
restore the competitiveness of local production, mainly in agriculture.



- 3 -
8.       Oil was discovered in the eastern part of the country in 1984, and
it seems that exploitable reserves are large enough to justify exports of
crude oil starting possibly in 1988-89. In the meanwhile, the YAR Government
will face the challenge of continuing its stabilization program while
preparing for the oil era. The oil discovery could improve YAR's development
prospects. At the Government's request, IDA is undertaking, as part of its
economic and sector work, a review of the implications of oil and gas
discoveries on YAR's economy and of investment options and priorities in the
energy sector, including power. The draft report of the Bank mission, which
undertook the study, is being prepared for discussion with the Government.
Maior Long Term Issues
9.       Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The situation is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are,
therefore, called for to address these problems: (i) establishing a
comprehensive water resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among
the various agencies operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing
legislation to manage water use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery
policies.
10.      Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and
increasingly complex development program. Health indicators depict serious
problems that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts
and resources to improve the situation.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, at about 3 percent per
annum, which could affect growth of per capita income and productivity.
Also, rapid population growth would reduce agricultural land per capita to
levels characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development
is severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the
small (even by developing countries' standards) coverage of YAR population in
terms of social services (e.g., health, education) would imply a heavy burden
on the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of
rapid population growth require that, despite possible cultural constraints,
the Government develop an appropriate policy as soon as possible.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.     Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in



- 4 -
the form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to around $3.5 billion by the end of 1984. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, the USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.
13.     About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
14.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1984 was estimated at $2,398 million, of which $1,688 million
(about 44 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $193
million or about 11 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent, while interest on USSR loans has varied from 2 to 4 percent.
Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent.
Loan maturities range from 3 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
15.      Recently, commitments decreased sharply, by about 66 percent in 1983
and 44 percent in 1984, a decline that is related to the depressed oil market
and the Iran-Iraq war. Debt service amounted to $42.5 million irn 1983 and
$67 million in 1984, hardly more than 5 percent of gross foreign exchange
earnings (including workers' remittances and private transfers). However,
the debt service is projected to increase substantially over 1986-92, and its
budgetary burden could become difficult to bear, depending on the level of
oil production and export revenues. These developments indicate that YAR
would have to rely increasingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS"
16.      This credit would be the forty-fourth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $431.0 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development; (b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA
1x   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-4244-
YAR), dated March 3, 1986, for the Tihama V Regional Agricultural Dev-
elopment Project approved by the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986.



hes extended fourteen credits ($147.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and
rural development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; seven
credits ($73.7 million) for education and training; three credits for
industry ($22.0 million); one credit for petroleum and geothermal promotion
and exploration ($2 million); a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand
the capability of the Misistry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system and a $4.7 million credit to provide technical
assistance to strengthen the Central Planning Organization. The
International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made five investments in YAR:
(i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy and juice project;
(ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity contribution of
$0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery project; (iii) $3.9 million in
FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv) $9 million in FY86 to
support the construction of an oil refinery in Marib; and (v) $2.4 million in
FY86 to help finance a citrus orchard project. Further opportunities for IFC
involvement are being explored. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. The attached map (number
IBRD 19127) indicates the location of the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
17.      While IDA has recently been assisting the YAR Government in its
efforts to overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial
problems (para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused
on long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; exploration for energy sources and minerals;
identification oi viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading
and expanding the physical infrastructure within the constraint of available
resources. Sector work complements both the economic work and lending
operations and serves to bridge the recommended short- and long-term measures.
18.      YAR's disbursement performance improved considerably in FY85,
although it has been affected by a number of implementation problems, and it
compares favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the recurrent
problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of development
are: delays in the recruitment of consultants, delays in the award of
contracts and the resolution of contractual issues with contractors, and
finalizing cofinancing arrangements. In addition, other serious project-
specific problems have also been affecting the implementation of two
projects: Fisheries Development (Cr. 1025-YAR) and Ibb and Dhamar Water
Supply (Cr. 950-YAR); these problems have been discussed with the Government
and corrective action is being taken to resolve them. The Government and IDA
are holding periodic country implementation reviews to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.
19.      Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. A highways project and a technical
assistance project for the petroleum sector have been appraised; two projects
in the agriculture and education sectors are under preparation. Future



operations are expected in the areas of agriculture, energy, transport and
health, and possibly in the water supply and sewerage sector.
20.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to over $400 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
21.      In July 1984, oil and associated gas were discovered in the Marib
basin by Hunt Oil Company (HOC). The size of the reservoir has not yet been
fully delineated. However, in December 1985 the Government formally declared
the field commercially exploitable with estimated reserves of about 400 bbl
million. The possible use of gas resources for power generation and
distribution of gas would have to be evaluated when more exploratiQn results
become available. The Government has also recently signed three additional
concession agreements for oil and gas exploration based on production
sharing. Until the discovered oil and gas resources are exploited, energy
supply in YAR will continue to be largely based on imports of oil products
which presently satisfy about 40 percent of the energy consumption. The
share of imported petroleum products in overall energy use has been growing
rapidly and this has put considerable piassure on YAR's balance of payments.
Traditional fuels in the form of firewood or crop residue, and animal dung
meet the remainder of the demand, particularly in rural areas. Since 1983
the Government had been studying a pipeline project to improve and make more
efficient the supply and dibtribution of imported petroleum products in YAR.
However, in light of the new oil discoveries the Government decided to
redesign the project. The Government has also decided to construct a small
refinery near the Marib oil field with a 10,000 bbl per day capacity to
satisfy about one-third of YAR's demand for gasoline and diesel oil, and
about half of the demand for fuel oil up to 1987.
22.      Under IDA Credit 1484-YAR, about $13 million had been provided to
further assist in geothermal exploration. However, following the recent
discovery of oil and gas, the Government requested, and IDA consented, to
cancel this credit because it became clear that the project is no longer a
priority within the development program of the energy sector.
Energy Consumption
23.      Gross energy consumption has grown over the last decade at an annual
rate of 6.3 percent reaching 2.3 million toe in 1982. Traditional resources,



-7-
fuel wood, crop residue and animal wastes met 60 percent of total energy
consumption; the balance was met by imported petroleum products which, over
the last decade, have grown at an annual average rate of about 20 percent,
principally due to the high level of economic activity, population growth,
and rate of urbanization. Consumption of fuel wood, roughly estimated at 3
million tons per annum, has resulted in a severe depletion of YAR's forest
resource and in high fuel wood prices. Such high prices encouraged a
desirable trend toward increased use of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for
cooking. Consequently, the share of commercial energy in the total energy
consumption is expected to increase from about 40 percent currently to about
70 percent in 1991. The recent oil and gas discovery might encourage further
increases in LPG consumption.
24.      Electricity consumption in YAR increased from about 100 GWh in 1975
to about 867 GWh in 1984, of which about 33 percent was provided by the
public supply system. The remainder was made up by private producers. Gross
electricity consumption is forecast to grow at an average annual rate of
about 14 percent from 1985 to 1990, due to a high growth rate in rural areas,
which is expected to average about 32 percent per year as a result of the
Government's extensive rural electrification program.
Energy Pricing
25.     Overall, government policy for energy prices has been satisfactory.
Imported petroleum products have generally been priced on a cost plus basis.
The prices are approved by the Government on the basis of cost estimates
(which include the c.i.f. price, duties and taxes, handling charges,
transport cost and distribution charges) prepared by the Yemen Petroleum
Company (YPC). The resulting domestic sales prices of all petroleum products
(with the exception of LPG) have, until recently, been above their economic
costs. Although c.i.f. prices of petroleum products have decreased slightly
following the recent decline in crude oil prices, the Government increased
sales prices for all products except LPG and fuel oil in January 1986 to
compensate for the depreciation of the Yemeni rial. However, this increase
has not fully compensated for this depreciation. The recent energy sector
mission (para. 8) has advised the Government to further adjust the domestic
sales prices. The price of gas oil and LPG is cross-subsidized mainly by
gasoline. As regards electricity, YGEC's tariff structure consists of a
simple kilowatt-hour rate applicable at all times, a fixed charge based on
the type of consumer, and a connection charge. The existing tariff structure
does not provide any incentive for large consumers to shift a part of their
consumption to off-peak hours, which would contr.bute to an improvement in
power generation efficiency. IDA continiues to work closely with the
Government to improve off peak hours loading. The weighted average economic
cost of supply is estimate at $0.128/kwh, compared to the existing weighted
average tariff of $0.181/kwh. Due to high losses, the existing tariffs are,
therefore, on average, about 141 percent of the economic cost of supply.
However, the tariffs are competitive in comparison to the rates charged by
private producers of power.
Power Subsector Development
26.     Public electricity supply and distribution in YAR is the
responsibility of YGEC which was created in 1975 when it inherited a number
of dilapidated power systems. Since then YGEC rapidly developed its



- 8 -
generating capacity and transmission system. Installed capacity increased
from 15 MW in 1975 to 232 MW by mid 1984, and is planned to increase to 427
MW in 1988, when another power plant presently under construction will start
operation. By early 1984, the main towns (Sana'a, Taiz, Hodeidah, Amran,
Dhamar, Yarim, and Ibb) had been interconnected through the newly constructed
32-kV transmission system supplied mainly by the thermal power plant at Ras
Katenib (RK). However, many large towns are still supplied by isolated
diesel generating stations. The Gover-ment's objective for YGEC is to
permanently connect all large towns to the national grid, and to implement a
program that would provide public electricity service to about 80 percent of
the population by 1998. Considering that only about 10 percent of the
population is currently supplied by YGEC while another 25 percent is supplied
by private producers, and given the dispersed nature of the rural population,
the financial constraints and the shortage of skilled labor, the Government's
target seems optimistic. However, it is clear that priority should continue
to be placed on the expansion of the distribution system to make fuller use
of available capacity.
Subsector Organization
27.      The Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW) is responsible for the
formulation of policies and plans for the development of the power subsector
as well as for the development and exploitation of water resources in Yemen.
MEW is also responsible for the control and licensing of private and
industrial autogeneration. YGEC is entrusted with the generation and
distribution of public electricity supply. Private generation and
distribution systems, generally constructed to poor technical standards,
account for about 67 percent of total electricity consumption. There is a
clear need for MEW to codify construction standards of electrical networks
and installations for use by the private electricity producers, and monitor
compliance to those standards. To assist MEW in this task, funds were made
available under the Third Power project (Credit 1361 YAR).
28.   YGEC's Organization and Management.  YGEC is managed by a
Government-appointed Board of Directors and a Management Committee.  Policy
formulation is the responsibility of the Board of Directors which consists of
a Chairman (the Minister of MEW), a Vice Chairman (the Deputy Minister of
MEW), and nine members. The Management Committee (MC) consists of the
Managing Director who is a member of the Board of Directors, the Deputy
Managing Director, and 12 other members. The MC is responsible for
day-to-day management of the company. Supported by central staff departments
for planning, engineering, finance, accounting and billing, personnel,
procurement, etc., the MC prepares the plans of activity and budgets which
are approved by the Board of Directors before being submitted for final
approval to the Council of Ministers. Operations are conducted through six
decentralized regions and 27 branch offices. YGEC's man gement structure is
being reviewed by the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB), the
consultants who have been appointed under Credit 1361-YAR to assist in the
preparatiou and implementation of a Financial Recovery Plan for YGEC
(para. 43).



- 9 -
29.   YGEC's Manpower.  Currently, YGEC has 2,867 employees of which 60 are
expatriates, 51 engineers and other professionals, 279 administrative staff,
90 foremen, 216 trainers and trainees, 616 finance, accounting and commercial
staff, and the remaining 1,555 are skilled and unskilled staff.
30.      Considering the size of the system, YGEC has excess unskilled labor
but suffers from an acute shortage of skilled and semi-skilled labor, which
is one of the subsector's biggest development constraints. Thus, since its
creation YGEC has had to depend on consultants and expatriate staff for
highly technical operational matters. Overall, the services provided by
expatriates and the consulting firms are good. YGEC is giving priority to
training its staff; however, given the country's shortages in technical and
managerial personnel, dependence on expatriate expertise is expected to
continue for several years to come.
Trainin,
31.      To overcome the shortage of qualified personnel, YGEC introduced in
1976 a program to train, both abroad and in Yemen, various levels of
managerial, administrative and technical staff. Training abroad had a slow
start due to the difficulty in identifying candidates possessing the required
academic background, but is now progressing satisfactorily. At present,
trainees, partly financed under the Power Distribution project (Credit
837-YAR), are undertaking, in the United Kingdom, degree courses in
mechanical and electrical engineering while additional trainees are taking
engineering foundation courses to be followed by more advanced courses. In
addition, staff members and managers (also partly financed under Credit
837-YAR) were sent abroad for training in steam power plant operation and
maintenance, and in accounting and finance.
32.      Local training was delayed until January 1, 1981, due to the lack of
training facilities. The training center at Dhabban (suburb of Sana'a),
financed by the French Cooperative Program (FCP) and IDA, took a few years to
complete. Currently, this center provides resident training that partly
meets YGEC's immediate needs of skilled and semi-skilled staff.
33.      In addition, IDA,  under Credit 837-YAR, financed training support
material for the Dhaban Center, the hiring of training staff, and the
training abroad of selected YGEC employees. IDA also financed a training
study conducted by the British Council (BC). Under Credit 1361-YAR, IDA
financed another study of the technical and training issues associated with
metering, energy losses and theft.
34.      The proposed project includes a training component, designed along
the recommendations of the BC study, which capitalizes on the experience
gained to date, and follows-up on the training efforts initiated under
previous IDA credits.
Power System Planning
35.      YGEC is responsible for planning the development of its system.
Although YGEC's ability in project identification has improved considerably
during the last three years, most planning and project preparation is still



- 10 -
carried out by consultants. Projects proposed by YGEC are approved by MEW
which, in consultation with the Central Planning Organization (CPO),
formulates the necessary project financing plans. aMjor decisions involving
generation and transmission have to be approved by the Council of Ministers.
36.     YGEC has undertaken a considerable number of studies on generation,
transmission, distribution, management, dispatching, etc. YGEC had agreed
under Credit 1361-YAR to appoint consultants to review, update and
consolidate into one report all recommendations included in the existing
studies. YGEC has also agreed to formulate a balanced system development
plan, produce cost estimates, and prepare a manpower plan. However, in view
of the implications of the recent oil and gas discovery for YGEC's investment
program, the above report is being delayed until the on-going study, carried
out with IDA's assistance, on the impact of the oil and gas discovery is
completed (para. 8). Thus the scope of the report agreed under Credit
1361-YAR would be broadened to encompass: (i) the review of all system
expansion studies undertaken by YGEC since 1980, the load forecast, the
choice of fuel and generation technology, and the location of future power
stations; (ii) the consolidation into one report of all the recommendations
pertinent to the evolving new environment; and (iii) the formulation of a
balanced system development plan, including cost estimates, and a manpower
development plan. This study would be commissioned by December 31, 1986.
Electricity Revenues Covenant
37.     Under the Second Power project (Credit 1102-YAR), YGEC agreed to
earn a minimum return on revalued assets of 3 percent for 1981-1983, 5
percent for 1984, 6 percent for 1985, and 8 percent for 1986 and thereafter.
However, in 1981 the Government decided to remove all fuel subsidies in one
step instead of reducing the fuel subsidies gradually as covenanted. Because
electricity tariffs were already high (above LRMC), this steep increase in
fuel cost was not fully passed on to electricity consumers. This had a
devastating effect on YGEC's financial performance, and YGEC was unable to
achieve the financial targets under Credit 1102-YAR. The removal of fuel
subsidies was highly desirable from an economic standpoint, but it rendered
the financial targets set under Credit 1102-YAR unrealistic and
unattainable. Therefore, the revenue covenants under Credit 1361-YAR were
revised. Accordingly, the Government and YGEC agreed that YGEC would cover
at least 90 percent of its operating costs in 1984, break even in 1985, and
achieve a return on revalued assets of not less than 3 percent in 1986
through 1988, 5 percent in 1989, 6 percent in 1990, and 8 percent in 1991 and
thereafter.  The Government and YGEC agreed to repeat the existing covenant
under the proposed credit. Moreover, in order to monitor YGEC's financial
performance, the Government and YGEC agreed to the following:
(i) Starting with the 1986 fiscal year, YGEC shall annually review with
the Government the adequacy of YGEC's revenues, on the basis of
realistic forecasts, to achieve the agreed return for the following
fiscal years; and
(ii) on the basis of this annual review, determine the measures that
would enable YGEC to achieve the agreed return, and consult with the
Association on these measures and on their implementation schedule
before the beginning of the following year.



- 11* 
YGEC's Financial Performance
38.      In 1984, YGEC projected that the corporation would fail to meet its
revised financial targets unless certain financial measures were introduced.
Thus in March 1985 the Government allowed YGEC to directly purchase its fuel
oil requirements from the free market instead of compulsorily purchase from
the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO). The Government
also introduced, after discussions with IDA, the following revenue measures:
(a) a monthly service charge to all domestic, commercial, and
low-voltage industrial consumers ranging from YRls 15 to YRls 250;
(b) a monthly capacity charge ranging from YRls 5 to YRls 10 per kVA of
reserved capacity to all large commercial and industrial consumers;
and
(c) an increase in connection charges by an average of about 50 percent
from February 3, 1985 for new customers.
The combined effect of the above actions are estimated to increase YGEC's
revenues by about 19 percent in 1985, and by more than 25 percent from 1986
onwards. It is estimated that with this substantial revenue increase, YGEC
would be able to break even in 198, and meet the agreed revised financial
covenants in 1986 and 1987.
39.     Revaluation of assets that was agreed under the previous IDA credits
should protect YGEC from future inflation and further devaluation of the
Temni Rial by providing increased annual depreciation. YGEC agreed to
repeat the covenant under the proposed credit whereby YGEC would revalue
assets iD any year in which the indices of the "Unit Value of Manufactured
Exports from Developed to Developing Countries" for the foreign cost of
assets, and the "Consumer Price Index in the Yemen Arab Republic" for the
local costs have increased by more than 15 percent since the date of the last
revaluation.
40.      Under the on-going credits, YGEC is required to ensure that its
accounts receivable for electricity supply do not exceed 60 days' billings.
As of December 31, 1984, YGEC's accounts receivable for electricity amounted
to about 112 days of sales. The major reason for the large receivables is
the manual preparation of electricity bills which is slow and results in
collection delays. Consultants are at present working to computerize the
billing operation and it is expected that YGEC would begin to process
customer bills on the computer beginning with 1987.
Debt Service Coverage
41.     Under Credit 1361-YAR, it was agreed that YGEC would obtain the
Association's prior approval for any long-term borrowing if its projected
internal cash generation for each year during the term of the debt (before
depreciation and interest) were not at least equal to 1.5 times the projected
debt service requirements for such year, on all its debt, including the debt
to be incurred. On the basis of the above agreement, YGEC's debt service
coverage ratio during 1987-93 (after the implementation of the Financial
Recovery Plan) is projected to gradually increase from 0.53 in 1987, to 1.20



- 12 -
in 1993. YGEC agreed to a debt limitation covenant similar to that included
in Credit 1361-YAR for borrowings exceeding the equivalent of US $1.0 million.
YGEC's Auditing
42.      The independent auditor's report of YGEC's 1982 accounts submitted
in September 1983 was unacceptable to YGEC, the Government and the
Association. Another independent auditor, Saba & Co., was appointed in 1985
to audit the accounts for 1982, 1983 and 1984. Audit of the 1982 and 1983
accounts was completed in May 1985, and the audit of 1984 was completed in
March 1986 and restated the accounts for 1982 and 1983. Due to the poor
condition of YGEC's accounts, the auditors continued to carry qualified
statements. To remedy that situation, YGEC, in conjunction with the
Government, has undertaken to devise and implement a plan, to the
satisfaction of the auditors and the Association, consisting of:
(i) devising in consultation with the auditors and ESB, a program to
institute appropriate internal control systems; (ii) submitting by June 30,
1986 for IDA's review a program for addressing the deficiencies; and (iii)
initiating by September 30, 1986 the implementation of the program agreed
between YGEC, the auditors and IDA. The present audit arrangements under
which Saba & Co. have been retained by YGEC are acceptable. Although there
have been delays in the submission of audits in past years, the
implementation of the consultant's recommendations under the FRP are expected
to enable YGEC to submit its audited accounts within the prescribed 6 months
after the end of 1986.
Financial recovery Plan
43.      Cne of the most important features of Credit 1361-YAR was the
introduction of the Financial Recovery Plan for YGEC. This plan is very
broad in scope, consisting of programs to reduce system losses which in 1985
were estimated about 33 percent of gross generation. It includes: (i) a
series of measures encompassing all managerial aspects (planning, personnel
and finance) including a comprehensive training program; (ii) the timely
planning and implementation of adequate tariff adjustments, and (iii) cost
reductions and controls. The plan is to be implemented over two phases:
Phase I covering the period up to July 1987 for recommending and implementing
assistance in organization, management, finance, accounting and store
management, a study of operating costs, and manpower planning and training;
and Phase II covering the period up to July 1990 for implementing training
and organization changes required for YGEC's staff to take over from the
expatriate staff the total operations of YGEC. The contract for the second
phase to be financed under the proposed project is estimated to require about
110 man-months. YGEC agreed to hire by June 30, 1987, consultants acceptable
to IDA to carry out the second phase of the Financial Recover Plan.
IDA Involvement in the Power Subsector
44.      The proposed Project would be the fourth IDA assisted project in the
power subsector in YAR. The first (Credit 837-YAR), approved in 1978,
provided $10 million to cover part of the foreign exchange cost of a project



- 13 -
involving the rehabilitation of the distribution networks of Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeidah, the training of YGEC's staff, a study for the formulation of the
National Electrification Program (NEP), and consultancy services. The
project was cofinanced by the Netherlands, a buyer's credit, the Government
and YGEC. Implementation of the Project was delayed by 30 months because of
difficulties experienced in securing the buyer's credit to complete the
financing package, and because of YGEC's lack of experience in procurement
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The project has beea
completed and the Project Completion Report is currently under preparation.
The second project (Credit 1102-YAR), cofinanced by the OPEC Fund, was
approved in 1981, and completed in 1985 with a 16-month delay due to the
contractor's slow performance.  It provided SDR 9.4 million to cover part of
the foreign exchange cost of supplying electricity service to 18 villages and
to the three principal farmers' markets at the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeidah in addition to on-the-job training of YGEC's staff. The Project
Completion Report is under preparation. The third project (Credit 1361-YAR),
approved in 1983, provided SDR 17.5 million to cover part of the foreign
exchange cost of developing the supply of electricity service from the
national grid in rural areas, the rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion
of the distribution networks in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah, the
connection of industrial load to the national grid, and the financing of
consultancy services. Implementation of the project, which is about 18
months late due to delays in project effectiveness and project startup, is
now proceeding satisfactorily-
Experience with Past Lending and Rationale for IDA Involvement
45.      The previous three power projects provided the opportunity for the
Association to engage in an intensive dialogue with YGEC and the Government
on the problems of the subsector. With other lending institutions and aid
agencies involved in the financing of generating facilities, the main thrust
of IDA assistance was towards the balanced development of the sector,
institution building, and manpower development. As a result of IDA's
involvement, YGEC's management and organizational structure is being
progressively adapted to meet its current and anticipated needs. In
addition, IDA has, through its policy dialogue, contributed to the
satisfactory progress on major policy issues such as rationalization of fuel
prices and electricity tariffs. YGEC has come a long way in a relatively
short period and IDA's participation has contributed significantly towards
the improvement of this subsector. However, much remains to be done and
IDA's continued involvement should continue to be beneficial in assisting YAR
in the development of the power subsector, in attracting other cofinanciers,
and in the institutional development of YGEC. The proposed project, in
addition to expanding the distribution system and increasing YGEC's sales,
would help in implementing the programs developed to address the issue of
system losses (para. 43) and contribute further toward YGEC's institutional
development by providing suitable training, and advisory assistance to
improve YGEC's management, planning and forecasting capabilities.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.     The proposed project is a continuation of the effort initiated under
Credits 837-YAR, 1102-YAR, and 1361-YAR. The project was appraised in April
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 18 to 24, 1985.
The Minister of Electricity, Water and Sewerage, Mohamed Hassan Sabra, headed
the Yemen delegation. A staff appraisal report "Yemen Arab Republic - Fourth
Power Project" (No. 5802-YAR) dated April 9, 1986 is being distributed
separately. The main features of the credit are presented in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached (Map
IBRD 19074).
Proiect Obiectives and Components
47.      The proposed project's objectives are to assist YGEC to capture the
largest possible share of benefits from YGEC's earlier investment in
generation and transmission facilities and to improve the operating
efficiency of the system. When completed, the proposed project would
initially extend electricity service to about 23,000 new consumers, ensure
24-hour supply, and improve the quality of service to more than 15,000
existing consumers.
48.      The proposed project includes plant, works and services required for:
Ca) the reinforcement and ring connection of the temporary
interconnected towns of Ibb, Dhamar, Rada's and Yarim and the
extension of their distribution systems to supply the surrounding
areas;
Cb) the extension of the distribution system of the isolated power
station at Al-Beida, and the installation of isolated power stations
and associated distribution systems at Al-Fara and Al Manqate;
,c) the connection to the national grid of large towns and large nearby
villages in the areas of Thila, &ababah, Shibam, Raydah, and Khamer;
Cd) the connection to the national grid of the town of Sanhan and large
nearby villages;
(e) the construction of a meter laboratory in Sana'a and the replacement
of old electricity meters; and,
(f) the improvement of YGEC's technical, financial and administrative
capabilities by providing funds for experts' assistance,
construction supervision, training, and the second phase of YGEC's
Financial Recovery Plan consultancy contract.
Project Cost
49.      The total cost of the project, net of customs duties and taxes (from
which the project is exempt), is estimated at $58.9 million of which $47.2
million would be in foreign exchange, or 80 percent of the total cost. The
base cost is estimated at December 1985 prices and based on prices quoted on
contracts for equipment and materials to be delivered for ongoing projects.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent are considered appropriate for this kind
of project. Annual price contingencies for the local cost components have



- 15 -
been estimated at 10 percent for 1986, 8 percent for 1987 through 1990, and 5
percent for 1991 and 1992. For the foreign cost components, price
contingencies have been calculated at 7.5 percent for 1986, 8 percent for
1987 through 1990, and 5.0 percent for 1991 and 1992.
Proiect Financing
50.      The proposed IDA financing of SDR10.9 million (equivalent to $11.7
million) would finance about 24 percent of the foreign exchange component of
the project cost, 5 percent of local cost and 20 percent of total cost. The
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB) under its installment arrangement, and the Swedish
Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS) have
agreed in principle to provide respectively, about $14.5 million, $10.5
million and $11.1 million to complete the financing of the foreign exchange
component. The balance of funds required to finance the project costs (about
$11.1 million) would be provided by YGEC from its own resources. At IDA's
suggestion, the Government convened two cofinanciers' meetings on October 23,
1985 and January 16, 1986 to discuss and approve the financing plan, the
project scope and cost, its financing and its procurement packages. The
signing of agreements between the Government and the cofinanciers securing
cofinancing in aggregate amount equivalent to $36.1 million is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
Proiect Preparation
51.      In 1983, YGEC engaged Labmeyer International to conduct a
feasibility study for the connection of large towns and villages to the
national grid. Following IDA's review this study was revised in early 1985
and a supplementary report was issued in December 1985 taking into account
comments made by AFESD. The areas to be supplied with electricity service
under the proposed project have been identified on the basis of the revised
study reports. The project design constitutes the least-cost solution for
providing electricity service to these areas.
52.      Through Credits 837-YAR, 1102-YAR and 1361-TAR, materials, network
designs, and procurement procedures have been standardized. Thus, the same
procurement guidelines used under these Credits would be used for the
proposed Project. The materials required to implement the proposed project
have been estimated by Lahmeyer International who will be used by YGEC to
assist in preparing the bidding documents and for completing the bidding
process up to contract award. The consulting firm is currently in the field
and is involved in the construction of the Al Mukha power plant and
associated transmission lines and substations.
Construction Supervision
53.     Although YGEC's capabilities nave improved substantially in the last
five years, they are still inadequate to supervise project construction.
Thus, provision has been included in the proposed project to provide
consultant services for construction supervision of facilities financed under
the proposed Project. In order to ensure timely appointment of these
consultants, YGEC agreed to hire them by June 30, 1987, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
54.      Construction of the proposed project would be undertaken by
contract. Given the pressing needs for training and the greater success
experienced with practical training, the engineering construction firm would
also provide on--the-job training for YGEC's staff. The total base cost of
the supply and erection contracts is estimated at about $35.8 million, of
which about $28.5 million would be in foreign exchange.
55.      The existing Project Unit in the distribution department of YGEC
established under Credit 1102-YAR would also be responsible for coordinating
and supervising all activities associated with the proposed project.
Procurement
56.      A procurement plan for items eligible for financing from the
proposed project is presented in the table below. To comply with the
different guidelines of the cofinanciers (para. 50) and to facilitate
contract packaging, implementation, disbursement and supervision, the
proposed project has been divided into five components; three relating to the
supply of goods and works for different areas, and the two remaining
components are relating to the financing of Technical Assistance
(construction supervision, financial recovery plan, and meter laboratory),
and to the financing of training (expert assistance and training) and
purchase of electricity meters.
57.      Except for contracts financed by BITS which would be let through
competitive bidding limited to Swedish firms, all major contracts would be
let through international competitive bidding (ICB). Except as indicated
below, contracts financed under the proposed Credit, whether they relate to
the supply of equipment and materials, or to the erection and installation of
Project facilities, would be let through ICB in accordance with the Bank
Group guidelines for procurement. Procurement of small quantities of
standard distribution equipment and materials, not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000 per contract and the equivalent of $400,0000 in aggregate, would
be procured through limited international bidding (LID) procedures, which are
satisfactory of IDA, on the basis of bids invited from a list of potential
suppliers broad enough to assure competitive prices. All contracts to be
financed from the proceeds of the Credit, with the exception of those valued
at $100,000 or less would be reviewed by IDA prior to award. Contracts for
consultancy services and financed by IDA would be let in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
58.      The allocations proposed above show that out of the total investment
cost (excluding technical assistance and training) of $52.3 million,
procurement through ICB would account for $37.9 million, through reserved
procurement $14.0 million, and through LIB $400,000. The financing by IDA of
these procurement items would be $7.8 million under ICB, $400,000 under LIB,
and $3.5 million for consultancy services and training. The proposed
procurement plans are summarized below:



- 17 -
Sunmary of Proposed Procurement Plans a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method          Total
Proiect Component                      ICB       LIB       Other      Cost
Supply & Erection Contracts            36.9      0.4         -        37.3
(Areas 13)                            (6.8)    (0.4)                 (7.2)
Supply & Erection Contract (Area 2)    -          -          14.0 b/  14.0
Construction of                         0.8       -           -        0.8
Meter Laboratory                       (0.8)                          (0.8)
Purchase of Electricity Meters          0.2       -           -        0.2
(0.2)                          (0.2)
Construction Supervision Contract       -          -          2.8       2.8
(1.2)     (1.2)
Financial Recovery Plan Contract        -                     1.8       1.8
(1.8)     (1.8)
Expert Assistance                                  -          1.5       1.5
Training                                -          -          0.5       0.5
(0.5)     (0.5)
37.9         0.4      20.6        58.9
(7.8)       (0.4)     (3.5)      (11.7)
a/ Figures in parenthese are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
bI Competitive bidding reserved for Swedish firms.
Lending Arrangement
59.      The proposed credit of SDRs 10.9 million mpde to the Government
would be on-lent to YGEC. The Government agreed to re-lend the proceeds of
the proposed credit to YGEC through a subsidiary loan agreement at an
interest rate of 9 percent p.a. over a 20-year repayment period inclusive of
a 5-year grace period. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
on the credit. The conclusion of this subsidiary loan agreement is a
condition of effectiveness.
DisDursement
60.     Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed credit would be made
for: (i) 100 percent of total costs associated with the construction of the
meter laboratory, the Financial Recovery Plan consultancy contract, and
training (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, materials
and erection associated with the supply and erection contract for Area 3 and
the purchase of electricity meters; and (iii) 50 percent of foreign
expenditures associated with the construction supervision consultancy
contract. With the exception of contracts valued at equivalent $50,000 or
less all withdrawal applications will be fully documented. Withdrawal



- 18 -
applications for contracts valued at less than $50,000 equivalent will be
submitted on the bases of Statement of Expenditure (SOE). Documentation to
support disbursements against SOE's will be retained by the YGEC who will
prepare and submit to IDA all withdrawal applications. This documentation in
addition to being held for one year after the Credit Closing Date, will be
audited by auditors acceptable to IDA, correlated with the relevant
withdrawal application and made available for review by IDA representatives
upon request. To avoid delay in Project execution due to lack of funds, the
Government agreed to open and maintain in dollars a Special Account
(Revolving Fund Account) of $500,000 in its Central Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Retroactive Financing and Advanced Contracting
61.     Since in 1985 YGEC hired a consulting firm acceptable to IDA to
prepare the feasibility study and the bidding documents up to and including
contracts award, and since funds for training would be required prior to the
credit becoming effective, retroactive financing of up to $500,000 would be
required to cover, inter-alia, incurred training and consultancy expenses.
Environmental Aspects
62.     The Project has no adverse pollution effects on the environment.
Possible adverse aesthetic effects would be kept to a minimum by suitable
routing of overhead lines. The social environment and the quality of life
will be enhanced by bringing electricity service and street lighting to the
residential areas affected, and by eliminating the presently existing
hazardous networks.
Project Benefits
63.     The proposed project is a part of YGEC's least cost development
program. It offers the least cost means of extending electricity services to
the areas covered by the project. The towns of Ibb, Dhamar and Yarim will be
permanently connected to the national grid and YGEC would appropriately
reinforce their present distribution systems. As to the smaller towns and
villages, the least cost solution to electrify these areas involves the
extension and reinforcement of the interconnected system, with the exceptions
of Al Beida, Al Fara and Al Mantaqe, where isolated diesel gener-.ion is the
most economic alternative.
64.     The rate of return (ROR) of the Project was first calculated with
benefits measured as revenues at existing tariffs and consumers'
contributions. An adjusted rate of return (AROR) was then calculated for the
Project taking consumers' surplus as an additional project benefit to reflect
total consumers' willingness to pay for electricity. The ROR was estimated
at 16 percent and the AROR at 16.4 percent, compared to the opportunity cost
of capital to YAR estimated to be in the 10-12 percent range. This indicates
the adequacy of tariffs in relation to the economic cost of supply. In the
unlikely event that project costs increased by 10 percent or the incremental
sales of electricity were reduced by 10 percent, the ROR on the investment
would drop from 16 percent to 15 percent and 12 percent respectively, still
within the acceptable range.



- 19 -
Risks
65.     There are no major risks associated with the proposed Project beyond
the delays which may be experienced in implementing the Project, and the
projected electricity sales. It should be stressed, however, that the
Project cost estimates (including contingencies) have been derived on the
basis of the regional power subsector implementation profile for power
projects which indicates completion in 7 years. In fact the proposed project
could be completed well within 5 years, and this is the implementation target
which YGEC will be pursuing. Regarding electricity sales anticipated to
result from the proposed Project, the load forecast was derived on
conservative assumptions. It is therefore considered that the project risks
are within an acceptable range.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
67.      I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1986



-20-                                              ANNEX I
TAAIL  R& lag. 1 of 6
YlStW. RR^R Rtr 0t    -  OC:RL ;"tc^R   OT   tC
NST                        COST RECENT ISTNAT) lb
Elan=              -NIDL  flG               tIODLE itoNE
nsoLt       1t7oLk  E51CT1NATta     N. ArtCA A N13 *   SCr      LRT. AMERICA & CAR
sAc (Tmxows. uq. no
7IWTUL                                195.0      1z9.0         IS9.0
AGAICUL?RAL                           9.0          97.3         97.9
Cl lR  CAPITA (US)                         .-           ..        550.0               134.9                     1375.9
C&ILo= rU oL EQUIVLutET)               5.0         £1.0         57.0               023.9                      993.0
POMATE AM VITL STTISTICS
OPULATION.NID-VEAR CT0SUMDO)    4163.0           5255.0      7595.0   .
L.84  IPOPULATION (Z W TOTAL)           3.4         7.5         16.1                49.0                       07.7
awurgATIO  IROJSCtoS
POULlATION In VE   2000 (CHLL)                                L2.3
STATIOrY POPULATION (NELL)                                    40.0
POPUTION NONSIUN                                               2.0
POPULATION DNSITY
ER sq. RH.                          21.3         27.0         38.9                17.8                       45.0
PER Sq. m. ACEr. LAND               43.1         54.0         75.0               470.1                       91.1
POPULATION AcE s5130u3  CZ)
0-14 TU                            42.4         43.0         45.4                43.5                       33.5
15-4 T1                             54.4         53a          SL.2                53.0                       57.1
s MnD Ajr                            3.1          3.1          3.3                 3.3                        4.2
POPULATION GOWS KATE (CZ
TOTAL                                2.3          2.3          2.8                 2.5                        2.'
UUAm                                  .1         10.2          7.5                 4.4                        3.6
CUDE SKIN RATE (PER TrIOS)            49.7         45.3         48.3                40.0                       Jo.,
count  SEATN RATE (PRI T30sU           23.9        20.5         22.0                11.5                        3.0
GROSS RRPROUUON RATE                    3.4         3.3          3.3                 2.0                        2.0
PAHILT PLANNING
ACCEPORS, AAL   (TouBs                ..          ..I.
UsERS C Of MUlED  MS                  ..          ..           1.0 Id             2L.4                       45.3
INEX or FWOD PROD. PEE CAPITA
(19971-100)                           119.0        94.0         75.0                95.1                      109.6
PER CAPITA SUPLPL OP
CALou CE or  IQuIrDTS)               83.0        08.0         60.0               110.2                      113.2
?AMiwm    (GRAM P   DAY)             07.0        53.0         00.0                77.                        69.4
OF URCI AJ  AL AID PULSE            15.0        14.0         19.0 le             17.8                       34.2
Q1lLD (SUB 1-4) DEAl!R                01.1        48.9         33.0                12.8                        4.5
LIFE EXPECr. AT SIN (TEAtRS)           25.S        36.5         44.1                17.3                       04.8
INAN1T Hoar. ATE (PER TS)            211.5        188.0        152.0                90.8                       59.'
ACCES S4 SAE HATER CRO)
TOTAL                                 ..          4.0        27.3 If              07.2                       15.4
URB,N                                 ..           .0        too.o 7              92.4                       71.5
URAL                                  ..          2.0         18.0LD7             45.3
ACCESS TO tXCUUTA DISPOSAL
CZ or POPULATION)
TOT                                   ..          ..           ..                 'S.9                       50.3
UlBAN                                 ..          ..          00.0                6 03.0                     73.&
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..                 23.6                       25.5
rOPLA   PR  PH  SIaCIA            130090.0      2437C.0     11070.0 If           4331.0                      1909.7
FoP. PER  USIN       O                  ..          ..       6360.0 77            1845.0                      606.2
FOP. PER  OSPITAL BD
TOTAL                             2730.0       1430.0       1700.0 It            021.8                      362.0
Ul                                    ..          ..        3o.o 7a              545.0                      422.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         380.0 77          2511.3                      2714.7
ADHISSIONS FIR HOSPITAL DE             ..           ..          14.3 It             25.7                       27.5
AVERSCK SIZE OF HOUSEIOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
ma                          ..           ..          .                    ..
RAL                                  ..           ..           .                    ..
AVERG   O. OP FESOS/OO
uRA                                   ..          ..           .                    ..
RUA                                   ..          ..           .                   ..
PECETAG  OP DIIELLNG  rXII ELCTs.
TOTAL                                ..           ..           .                    ..
nu                                    ..          .. . ..
ab                                   ..           ..           .                    ..
gas"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



-21 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TA a L A3
YEMEN. AIUS U*.        - SOCtAL INDtCATOS DATA igET
VYl'4, MAREP. U,r                     REFERL4O  UROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEArEb) a
,oST                     (MOST RECENT .IS1ATE) 'b
9 cenCt           MOOLE' 1hCJ             4[DDLE 17OL
Lobo lb    197olb ESTIz,il/b       6. ArRICA 4 ltD tSt       :Ar. AIEALCA 6 AR
AAJUSTCD ELIOLLMT RATIOS
PtL :   TOTAL                       8.0        12.0        51.0               ,9.A                     1u4.7
NALE                    14.0        23.0        90.0              103.7                     1O05.5
FOtLIE                   0.4         *.'l       17.0               75.2                     1U&.b
Ygc0lWWAI: TOTAL                                1.0         7.0               '2.9                        .2
l9Lt                     ..          2.0        ll.0               'U.,                      42.7
FmADr                    ..           .1         2.0               34.6                      - .Y
VwCA7toKAL CZ OF S0OMDAXT)            3.2 lb      2.2         1.e               10.0                      13.3
UPXL-ERAOR RATIO
fnAL!                              45.0 lb     Sl.O        46.0               29.7                       ".9
s1C30A5                            24.0 7i    24.0        1.0                18.8                      t..7
IPASWU       CAMSIlHSANID             ..          ..          ..                17.5                      e.u
RADIO      1      0      VWuWsw *.               L5.3 IL     16.2              175.5                     321.3
IT                    Fr0  N          ..          ..          2.0               51.2                     112.'
PAUAP    (DAUIX atImAL
INTIST) CIuOLTono
PM     aao FOPa A.                   ..         10.7         ..                37.2                      61.1
CUM= AUL ATIMA IC4PT                  ..          ..          2.1 If             Z.4                       2.4
ToTAL uoMR rm    CTHom)            1263.0      1481.0      1850.0
T-ImS t1 C   OT)                    3.7         4.5         5.6               I1.0                      Z3.6
ACUWILCTUU  tFGtlT3               183.0        79.0        75.0 If            42.4                      31.4
UIWSRw  CPIUET)                     7.0         9.0        11.0 7*            27.9                      24.3
PAlrTICIPAZOU NAIl C ISSER?
TOTAL                              30.3        28.2        24.4               2b0Z                      33.5
HALE                               57.7        55.0        48.6               40.2                      51.3
FEIN"                               2.3         2.5         2.6                5.                       15.9
EC!!OIIC D0 QIN9       ATTO           1.5         1.6         2.0                1.8                       1.3
- ~
PE8MIi OIF PRIVATE ZUEDfI
izaiwi a tV    blZ
U    T S or   DNDS                  .. or                   ....
iizUzIIC  20Z or muwsaoi            ........
IST 20 O  ISODS                     .. OF                   ..S.
uEsr 4X OFusO                       ..          ..          ..                 ..                         ..
-o m             m
ERTI ME  ABSSaUTM PMuEIT INWHM
Ln. CUSS ( ER     M)
C                                   ..          ..        36.0 If            226.3                    Z2.3
UMAL                                ,,          ,,          ,,               134.0                     185.3
EsT5 mx     LATIrvE POFClY t1I
LIem. CtSS PI CAPTTA)
GaM                                 ..          ..          ..               431.5                     519.8
RL                                  ..          ..        137.0 If           320.0                     359.7
EST26ATS  FOP-. U        ANSOUlM
0mt91            L  CS)
20311                               ..          ..          ..                2..0.
Mt? AVALLAKE
Mt AIPLTCAUZ 
is  Tb. arwsp avesra8e for mucb Ladicatolr ame palto-.9tiarStcti.c =&='  Coaiat"   of casarie.
&NOWs thM LndIcatare dgpenda an availabiiity ot diat & La ODt sagm1f.1
lb Umesm otherwise noted. "Data tor 1960" caefr to any year between 1935 ead L961; "Data faC 1970r b.aEau
L969 mud 1971; mad data for Nnat Recanct ocrinre  betomo ga 18 ..   1983.
Ic   Residen  popualatiaa Includes =Lgr&ao   inwrker abroad toir LE" thue £ year; L   1979; lo 1977;  It IwlO;
LI.1972; A5 1902.
I.n. 1995



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                            Page 3 of 6
DEFINIMONS OF SC-IAL INDICATO RS
Noaes Although the data aredrawn from sourcsgenerallyjudged ite most autrnutauve and reliable. it shouldW also be noted ibhi they may not be ierniationglly
compatable boeause of ihe ldck of standardized dellnons and concept used by different countre in collestmig the daia. The daua are. nonchelks. uswful to
desrbe orden ofmapntude. ridicate trend.and chractenze certm myaor diffmnc  betwn countn.                          -
The reference grmps are (I I the same country group of the subjet country and (1) a country group with somnewhat higher avergp icorme than the country
group ofthe subjectcountry texceptfor "Higa IncomeOd Exporters Sroup where Middk Income Norh Africa and Middle East- ischosen becauseofstronger
socIO-Uftltural .ffinitiesL Int he refernce group data lhe averages are popu'atoon veghted anthmetic ean r(or each indicator and hown only when majonty
ofthe countries in ag roup has data for that indicator. since theceovemae ocountrtes among the dicatosn depexdaon ihe availability ofdata and is not umform.
caution muut beexercwd mn relmingaveragemofoneaindicasor to anrheLer The averapes ame only useful in companng the value ofone indiator it a tinieisirig 
the country and relerence groups.
AREA (thousand sq.kinL)                                           Crmt N.k Rate (perrthusaid)-Number of live births in the year
Tot-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        C&r Death Rot (per thoatiad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agicmha-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or         per thousand of nmd-year populatioo; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprowdaen  Ram-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her noma  reproductive period if she experiences
prsent age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPfTA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by same conversion method as World    FIbdly Pluradq.-Accq0tars, Aame (thoJadsI-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of accepton of Zsrth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial pnrmary energy (coal and lignite.       Fuady Pfahr-C s (pereet fofwrkd moammu)--Thc percen-
petroleum  nattul gas and hydro-. nudear and geothermal dec-      tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husba    are prcticing any forn of contraceptton Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                  groupsv
Total Pbp.iwii, Mi - r O. shosusaaus)-fAs of July 1; 1960, 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data
ta  IS of      O FEdPra rrdm   Pb Cq*a (1969-71 - I0)-Index of per
Urbt Pbp.fd.n (parer       oe f tot.lt-Ratio of urban to totl    capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populatton; di(ferent ddinitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes anirnal feed and seed for agriculture Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primry commodities (eg. surcane irnsted of supr)
hpufaie  p fjecti..                                              which ae edible and contain nutrients (c.g. coffee and tea are
Ppuaswion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,    excluded); they comprise cereaLs. root crops  puLes. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetalbks. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rate  and  livestock products Aggregate production of each cour,try is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these pameters    on national average producer prie wdghts; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projecteD at five-year intervals on the basis of generaized  1982 data.
assumptions untd the population becamesttionary.                 Phrv Caa Swply of Cari (parentq of reqew er)-Comput-
Stationary popudtuit--li one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calore equivalent of ne food supplies avaiabie in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while agspeific  per capita per day. Avairable supplies coaprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age stutcure is also   food procesing, and losses in distribution. Requiements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charactristic of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights
the popu ation in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenenriss-Is the tendency for population growth to  h%r Cpira Sappiy of  rweb (gram  per dey)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tine that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived: that is, even after the net reproduction rtce has raced  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is masured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gris of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gramns
the year t. given the assumption that fertility mains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.ar lower than those of
ment levd firom year r onward. 1985 data.                        7S grams of total protein and 23 grarns of animal protein as an
.IbpA.  DensWity                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Par Capita Aetei S.ppl  ro  ,Ain  and Pube-Protein supply
Per sqgmk  aminc d kand-Computed as above for agricultural       offood derived from animals and pulses in grans per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Ppulati  Age Str   er (percenat)-Children (0-14 years). work-    CAl (qges -4) oDath Rate (per thousmud)-Number ofdeaths of
ingage(lS-64years)andrezired(6syearsandover)aspercentage         children aged ,-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of smid-year population 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
P4pWNAtin Gre th Rate (per.nr)--oe4.L-Annual growth rates of'    from life tabls. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
PbALim Growtk Rat (perarate)- *a   -Annual growth rates          Life Epeancy at Sitn (ywes)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data      infant would live if prevailing patters of mortality for all people



-23 -                                          ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  AupM-racher Aado - prmry, mad secondary-Total students en.
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
afte  Mm      Ra  (per hmuamd)-Numnber of infants who die    mteacher in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of ae per thousand Uve births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 dt                                 CONSUMPTION
Accem Sto W ew (phcent q pu0-4   when, aid                   Paseqev Ccn (per rein=d pqAmuln)-Fasenger cars corn-
revel-Number of people (total, urbn nd runal) with reasonable  pri motor can seating le  than eight pemons; excludes ambul-
au   to safe water supply (include treated surfa  watt  or   ancs, heua and miliury vehicleLs
untrated but uncontaminated watier such u tht from pmoicted  Rib ReeKuv tJw thmmsand popmle led)-All type of r
bomehoe, springs and aty wel) as percentages of their resc-  for radio broadcasts to enia pubic per thousad of population;
tive populations In on urbiLa are a public fountain or sanspost  excludes un-licensd receives in countrin  and in years wlien
catd not moe tn 200 merfrom a hous may be considered         reistradon of radio sets wU in effect dta for recent yeas may
a being within renable a      " of that hous  In rural arn    ot b compare since nat countria   abolsed lienam
reasonable acccss would imply that the housewife or members of the  nt be omprbl&inemstcunre aboishe lorcensinc.
housIhold do not have to spnd adisrportionate part of the day                      d,ep.hsdr  -Tr        broadca
in rerciing tde faumiy's ww n .                              to g_ene  public per thousnd populstion; exclude unLced TV
to "        E       04           _ f                  f _b) t1, receiven in countrin and in yea  whn rgWtration of TV sem  wu
ed Nwat--Number of people (total, urban and rural) served by     ee
excree dbpose u pemtaps of their  pective popult ions.    MAwappe Ch'adui   (p4eIew .sdpeplk.V-Shows the aver-
Exaceta disposa  my ioclude the collio and diposal, with or  ap circulation of "daly gr interest newpeper," deied as a
without treatnnt. of huma excret An  wast-water by water-    periodical publation devotd pdmly to recording gnad new.
borne sster or the uns of pit privis and similar instaUations  It is cowniered to be "dely"if fit appear at leasoiur time a week
Flp.alenper Plsyide-Populadon divided by number of prac-     Chanm Aena Atedac pr Capft per Ye-fBtsed on the
dsing physicans qualified from a medical school et university leei,  number of tickt sold durmg the  ,  including admisios to
ftp.l.tipNwdq Arsee-ftpulation divided by number of td'e               cimUas and mobile units.
practiin  male and female grduate nurss, astnt nurses,       LABORFORC
practial nure and nusing auwiliaries                               --
*p  Wm '   Haewi    -rot No&, w, and a                        TotPopual L bg   Far  ft*ensanmu)-Economically active perons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cludng amed focs ot unemployed but excuding houswives
h t beds aiablein publc and private geneal aid soalied       students, etc, covering populto  of all as  Definition  in
boqpRi aW biliuion cmtn. Hospitals at blishmets              various countries are not companrble; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
pmemnently stffed by at krat owe physiciL Estabishments prov-  fir (powtJ)Ferumle labor force u pctage of total labor
iding prinnpaly cu il cm are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
bowev, include healt ag medicel cantes not pemanesdy saffed    Adgricuh   (percaw-Labor force in farming forestry, hunting
by a physicia (but by a medical asistant, nurse midwife, etc)  and fishing a perceta  of total lbor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
wbich offer in-pot aoommodation and provide a lIinited range  data.
of Med    fiie                                               Indm&r (Praeme-Labor fore in mining construction, mamu-
A   uiIs per Heqb led-Tot  number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and ga a perntap of total labor
dischg  firom hospital divided by the number of beds         force 196. 1970 and 1980 data.
_Area Raw (p. _,-eemob. e_d f-4 rdp"-
HOUSING                                                      or activity rat  are computed as totaL male, and fele lbor forc
Avv   Sioe .1  H.b    (pvma p   I' LA      -46r4 wtew, -n_   as percentges of totaL, ma   nd femae population of al soe
endwur-A houwhold consis of agroup of individuab whc share   respectively; 1960 1970, and 1983 data Ths an bad on ILOs
living quarte  and their man mel A boarder or dger may or    pardcipation ra  reflecting a      ure of the populaimoa and
may not be incuded in the household for statistical purpoe   long ime trend. A few estimtes ae from nanl sours
Arm_ NM_r qof Ars por Roem-co_1l, whn ad rwair-              Economic DepO_ney R -Rawtio of population under 15. and
Avge number of peru per room in all urban, and rural         65 and over, to the woridng age popuation (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, rpectively. Dweingp exclude
non-peman stuctures aod unoccupied pam                       INCOME DISTRIDLFON
&krcesqe of DweEy  wh Eirc'icky-roW1 wrbn, and r_uI-         P ceq  U! Tail D_Usnk [tmom (botb   cub &W kind)-
Conventional dwellinp with electricity in living quarters as pern-  Aruing to perenie groups of households ranked by total hous
taw of totaL urban, and rual dwellings respetively,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVEErTY TARGET GROUPS
Ad  Ewoam   Ralm                                             The following estimates a  very approximate mesure of poverty
brmw  schoOl - total mak and fnale-Gros  totaL male          levels. and should be interpreted with consideble caution.
feule enrollmet of aD ag  at the primay lvel as percetaes of    Ei W ed AUhs* Avt ncmw Lee (US1pe capim)-w*an
repctv prmay sbool-   populations. While many countnes         d rir-Absolute poverty income  vel is that incme level
coidr prmay chool age to be 6-11 year others do not The      below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essta
differnc   in county pracsd in the ages and duration of school  non-food requikmnts is not affordable.
ar reflected in the ratios give  For some counuies with univeral  Eioaed Ruehe Po" reom Levlwd (USE pdr cqr)-_wam
eduction, gross enrlment may exceed 100 percen t since some   mn  awl-Rural rlative poverty inome kvel is one-third of
pupils ar bdow or above the country's sandard pinry-school   averae per capia perso   income of the country. Urban Leve is
agc                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secdwy school - otal, m1e aid fenad-Computed as above;    living in urban areas
seonday educat   nquies at lat four years of approved pri-   Eu     d P         ae    Abse  IbPomr Inc    Lol (pe-
mqay insruction; provids gneraL vocationaL or tea ur raining  caat)-when - revel- P_ ~tzt of population (urban and rual
instructions for pupils usuafy of 12 to 17 yeas of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
cae coune am generally esduded.
Vo raul Eiromui (pert of secondary)-Vocanonal institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Dat Division
tions include tech     industiL or other progams which opeate        Economic Aralysis and Projections Departmet
indepedently or as depmens of secondary institutions                                 June 1985



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X)
1984                   (Constant Price)
($m - Current Prices)        FY1977-83       1984
GNP at Market Prices                3806                     6             2
GDP at Market Prices                3354                     7             2
Imports of GNFS                     1673                     5           -9
Esports of GNFS                      220                    15             1
Consumption                         4105                     4            -2
of which:  Government            (1333)                   20            -5
Investment                           702                     9           -8
Gross National Savings               391                    -9          -16
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
Mln       X    Thousand         Z         $         Z
Agriculture            820       32         830        69         988       47
Industry               206        8          54        5         3815      182
Services              1492       60         318       26         4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE     2518      100        1202       100        2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
- of GNP
1978/79 1979/80  1981  1982  1983  1984    1984
Current Receipts                2161    2755  3329  3692  4401  4646         23
Current Expenditures            1847    2531  3325  5286  6201  5957         29
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314       224     4 -1594 -1800 -1307        -6
Capital Expenditure             2618    2492  3683  4017  2944  3100         15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure         -      523   792  1764   922   967         5
Overall Deficit                  848    2333  2949  5262  4807  4609         23
External Assistance, Net        1904      976  2436  2956  1752  1563         8
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
YRls Million Outstanding End Period
1980      1981      1982     1983    1984
Money Supply                      9180       9905    12519    15967   20364
Domestic Credit                   4956       7273    11834    15981   20928
Of which:
Claims on Government           (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361) (16168)
Claims on Private Sector       (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3620)  (4760)
Percentages-
1979/80   1981    1982      1983      1984
Money Supply as  percent of GNP      63        64       69       83       100
Annual Increase (percent) in:
Money Supply                      16        8       26       28        28
Consumer Price Index             11         5        3        5        13



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BMLANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ Mln)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Exports of Goods, fob                3       13     10       5     10       9
Imports of Goods. cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1765  -1403
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1755  -1394
Non Factor Services, net           -36      -21    -51    -37    -51    -45
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924   1085    986
Official Grants                    312      148    337    468    186    142
Balance on Current Account        -138    -691   -664   -592   -535   -311
N & LT Capital, net a/             104      452    205    188    197    150
Disbursements on loans        (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)
Repayments of loans           (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       204      200    198      93    125      65
Overall Balance (- = deficit)      170      -39   -261   -311   -213    -96
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                          DEBT SERVrCES RATIO (1984) b/
($ million)                 1984                                        S
Total Outstanding            2398          Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1688          Disbursed                    5.1
a/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
b/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EMtDA
February 1986



- 26 -                             ANN  II
Page 1 of 2
lmE SAs o  mN  aF         aEP ISERAT    IN 7HE YMM: ARAB REPUI
A. Statimoc of Mk Credits (as of March 31, 1986) a/
Ammt ($ million)
Credit                                                             (lesa ca-cellations)
Nxmber Year      Borrwer                Prpose                       ID   Undisburasd
Fifteen creits fully dis8wed                       118.9
794   1978   Yeen Arab Republic   Higways I                        11.5       1.9
805   1978   Yemn Arab Republic   Tihua Agriculture II             10.5       0.2
837   1978   Yen Arab RPublic   Poier Distibution                  10.0       1.9
880   1979   Yazn Arab Republic   Ti}ui Agriculture III            15.0       7.9
915   1979   Yeen Arab Republic   Education III                    10.0       1.4
950   1980   Yeen Arab Republic   Ibb and Iaur Water Supply   12.0           11.3
978   1980   Yeen Arab Republic   Tiham Agriculture IV              5.5       0.2
1025   1980   Yen Arab Republic   Fisheries DvelopHent              17.0       7.4
1067   1980   Yezn Arab Republic    S. Uplamsb zal Dev. II          17.0 bl   2.1 b
1122   1981   Yemn Arab Repblic   Itdlstri Dewelopint               12.0       1.2
1202   1982   Yaen Arab Reblic   Smsa Urban  evelopent              15.0       7.2
1203   1982   Yemu Arab Republic   Education IV                     12.0       7.1
1216   1982   Yein Arab Repblic   Petroleum & Geothemil Ecplor. 2.0            1.2
1259   1982   Yemen Arab Republic   Agr. Research and Development  6.0        2.3
1267   1982   Yean Arab Republic    Hiyweys IV                       7.0      2.0
1294   1982   Ymn Arab Public    W-alth                             10.5       6.1
1308   1982   Yerin Arab Republic   Agiculttral Credit               8.0      6.0
1340   1983   YenEn Arab Republic   Education V                     10.0      8.4
1361   1983   Ymn Arab Republic   Power ITI                         19.0     17.1
1413   1983   Yeen Arab Republic   Hieuus V                         13.0      11.5
1441   1984   Yemen Arab Rublic   Uban II                           12.0      11.9
1453   1984   Yeen Arab Republic   Central Hilands Ag. Devt.    8.0    . 7.8
1470   1984   Yewrn Arab Republic   Education VI                    10.0      10.0
1547 c/ 1985   Yen Arab PRpublic   Indutrial Development II          8.0      8.0
1556   1985   Yemn Arab Republic   TA to CFO                         4.7      4.7
1584 c/ 1985   Yemen Arab Republic  Wbdi Al Jwf Ag. Deut.           10.0      10.0
Total                                              394.5 d/
of idch has been repaid                            1.7
Total zm held by IDA                               392.8
Total undisbirsed                                            156.8
a/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bazd -finazxed projects in emcution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and Ortober 31.
b/ BegiziMg with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been deacninated in Special Draving
Rights. The dollar aImts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the
tine of credit negotiations for the DA  mts and the dollar equivalnts as of
March 31, 1986, for the mdisbursed aonts.
c/ Nbt yet effective.
d/ Tccbxles a credit of $12.7 million equivalet for a Technical Trairilg project
approve by the E!mcutive Directors on Deciber 19, 1985, and a credit of $10.0
millio  equivalent for a Tihuz V Regional Agricultural  Developent project, approved
by the !Ecutive Directors on March 20, 1986, fiich are not yet siped.



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statemeut of IFC Iuvestments (as of March 31, 1986)
(Amount in $ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products       3.15        --      3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries  3.25      0.91       4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil        4.58        -       4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1986    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery          9.00        -       9.00
1986    Marib Agriculture Company Citrus Fruit          2.40      0.46      2.86
Total Gross Conitnents                         22.38      1.37     23.75
less cancellations, terminations,             2.35        -       2.35
repayments, sales
Total coiitments now held by IFC               20.03      1.37     21.40
Total Disbursed                                17.26     0.47      17.73
Total Undisbursed                               2.77     0.90       3.67
C.  Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



-28-                      ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Twenty-four months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:           YGEC
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:          June 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:   April 27, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         November 24, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              December 1986
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conclusion of firm cofinancing arrangements would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 50).



19*07n  il9AOF  A134 ^811AI                                                                   YE MEN  ARABR   EP U B LI C
IDA - ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUDI ARABIA
SAUDI AIA4A997 .jW                                                                                              PTla: 93737
'IE>I,Bq   >>   ~~~~J~~  r     ....                                                *   A9An_l11-s1 *srhC-n
-.D9      'E                                                                                                C (  ,9 A Dc-olooIbC Fomn
I                                                                  A   M70T ,. 7
T79                               ---- ft7-.9
7- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
% l ( ~~~~.'MIDLANDj T Oh_L_o,
RED SE
:            \>,\ i      P~~EOPLt'5 DEM. REP, OF YEMEN                                     DIW          ii-    D
ETHIOPIA _5 1I bjDN+Psiir.i
/                                        ~~~~~~~Guif of Aden-.w.                                                          '
,/    DJIBOUTI                                                                                          rlI8g A9                    d
I j _,\_                                                                                                                                   1
i       0,77.   
~~~~~I-Tlll ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     E,T10 73399                       9



