Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1701 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 17, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1701 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1988, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Yemen General Electricity 
Corporation (YGEC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to YGEC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
(C)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
contract from other sources of finance, loans in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
about $36,100,000; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and YGEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
Page  2
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and YGEC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and YGEC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(d)
"Project Unit" means the Project Unit established pursuant to the Project 
Agreement (Second Power Project) dated May 15, 1981 between the Association and YGEC, 
and to be maintained pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, for expenditures made (or, if this Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods end services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be  withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
1996, and ending February 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on February 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause YGEC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of YGEC therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to he taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable YGEC to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the equivalent in its currency (determined as 
of the dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the proceeds of the Credit to 
YGEC under a subsidiary loan agreement to he entered into between the Borrower and 
YGEC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
including, inter alia, provisions whereby YGEC shall (i) repay the amount so onlent to 
it over a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, and (ii) pay on the 
outstanding amount so onlent interest at an annual rate of not less than 9%.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provision of Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) participate in the annual review, referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, of the adequacy of YGEC's revenues to 
achieve, for the following fiscal year of YGEC, the agreed rate of return specified in 
Section 4.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; and (b) on
the basis of such review, take all such action (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the
structure and levels of YGEC's tariffs) as shall be required to enable YGEC to comply 
with the provisions of said Section 4.02 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by YGEC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not enter into any loans, contracts, agreements or other instruments providing 
for capital expenditures in power generation in an aggregate amount greater than 
$10,000,000. For purposes of this Section, the term "capital expenditures" means all 
Page  4
expenditures occurred on account of fixed assets for power generation, including 
interest charged to construction of those assets.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions the 
following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof: 
(a)
YGEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that YGEC will bc able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Law No. 12 of 1975, as amended by Law No. 26 of 1981, of the Borrower 
pertaining to the establishment and operations of YGEC shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of YGEC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of YGEC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The agreement, or any of the agreements, providing for the loan or loans 
referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, shall have failed to 
become effective by December 31, 1986, or such later date as the Association may 
establish; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement 
and of YGEC under the Project Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed
maturity thereof. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur;
Page  5
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and YGEC; and
(b)
the Agreement, or Agreements providing the Borrower, for purposes of 
financing the Project, with the approximate total amount referred to in Recital C of 
the Preamble to this Agreement have been concluded between the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by YGEC, 
and is legally binding upon YGEC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and YGEC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and YGEC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Chairman of the Central Planning 
Organization of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CENPLAN
2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Molisim Alaini
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Goods and spare
   5,350,000
100% of foreign
parts (including
expenditures
installation
works)
(2)
Meter laboratory
     815,000
100%
(supply of goods
and installation
work)
(3)
Consultants'
services:
(a) for construction    1,000,000
50% of foreign
supervision
expenditures
 
(b) for the plan
   1,600,000
100%
referred to in
Part B (2) of
the Project
(4)
Training
     470,000
100%
 
(5)
Unallocated
   1,665,000
Page  7
TOTAL
  10,900,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made on account of payments for such expenditures before that date 
but after July 1, 1985.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist YGEC in (a) extending electric 
service from its interconnected grid to the largest possible areas, and (b) improving 
the technical, financial and administrative capabilities of YGEC.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Electrical Works
 
This Part includes (a) the connection to the national grid of towns and adjacent 
large villages situated in the areas of Dhamar, Thila, Hababah, Shibam, Raydah, Khamer 
and Sanhan;
(b)
the reinforcement and ring connection of the temporary interconnected 
towns of Ibb, Dhamar, Rada'a and Yarim and the extension of their distribution systems 
to supply surrounding areas;
(c)
the extension of the distribution system of the isolated generation 
station at Al-Beida, and the installation of an isolated power station and associated 
distribution systems in each of the towns of Al-Fara and Al-Mantaqa; and
(d)
the construction of a meter laboratory in the area of Sana'a and the 
replacement of old electricity meters.
The above connection and extensions consist of the supply, construction and/or 
installation of medium and low voltage lines, substations, distribution transformers 
and equipment and three phase and single phase connections and meters.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Technical services for YGEC for purposes of project engineering and construction 
supervision.
2.
Implementation, with the assistance of consultants, of the plan currently 
adopted by YGEC for improving its financial position.
3.
A training program for YGEC's staff, to be implemented with the assistance of 
consultants.
*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of SDR 470,000 
equivalent which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not 
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3(b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total 
unwithdrawn amount 
of the Credit minus the amount of any outstanding 
qualified agreement to 
reimburse made by the Association and of 
any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  9
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association for deposit into the Credit Account) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for deposit into the Credit Account.
