Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1701 YAR
Project Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated June 17, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1701 YAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (YGEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Yemen Arab Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,900,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that YGEC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and YGEC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to YGEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS YGEC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) YGEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and
(b)
YGEC shall, at least until the completion of the Project, maintain the 
Project Unit with facilities, powers, organization, staff and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. YGEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. YGEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall not take 
or concur in a action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) YGEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
YGEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by YGEC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. YGEC shall at all times operate and maintain its Plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. YGEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) YGEC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
YGEC shall:
 
(i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of
income and expenses and related statements) and the Special 
Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  3
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and said 
records, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, YGEC shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records 
(contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as 
to whether the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn in respect of such 
expenditures 
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall, 
from time to time, take all such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments 
of the structure or levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce an annual 
return of not less than 3% of the average current net value of YGEC's fixed assets in 
operation for fiscal years 1989 and 1990, and 5% for its 1991 fiscal year and for each 
of its fiscal years thereafter.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, starting with the 1986 
fiscal year, YGEC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by YGEC and satisfactory 
to the Association, (i) review with the Borrower and the Association the adequacy of 
its revenues to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in 
respect of the next following fiscal year, and (ii)
when any such review indicates that such revenues would not be sufficient to meet such 
requirements, determine, in consultation with the Association and before the beginning 
of the following fiscal year, the measures to be taken to meet such requirements and 
the time schedule for the implementation thereof.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the annual return shall be calculated by dividing YGEC's net 
operating income 
for the fiscal year in question by one-half of the 
sum of the current net 
value of YGEC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
that fiscal year;
 
(ii)
the term "net operating income"' means gross revenues from all 
sources related
to YGEC's electricity operations less all expenses related to 
YGEC's 
electricity operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance and 
taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, 
and provision for depreciation. 
Interest and other charges on 
debt shall not be deducted from gross revenues;
(iii)
the term "current net value of YGEC's fixed assets in operation" 
means the 
gross value of YGEC's fixed assets in operation less 
the amount of accumulated 
depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
Page  4
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association; 
and
 
(iv)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (iii) above, 
YGEC undertakes 
to revalue its assets in any fiscal year in which the 
indices of the "unit 
value of manufactured exports from 
Developed to Developing Countries" and the 
"Consumer Price Index of 
Yemen" published by the Central Planning Organization 
of the 
Borrower shall show an increase of more than 15% over the year in which 
the last revaluation of YGEC's assets has been undertaken.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall 
not incur any debt in excess of the equivalent of $1,000,000 per year, unless a 
reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of YGEC shows that the projected 
internal cash generation of YGEC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to 
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement of YGEC 
in such year on all debt of YGEC including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of YGEC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for
such debt or further modification of its terms of payment, 
on the date 
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
 
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent 
that the 
guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
 
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of YGEC" means gross revenues 
of YGEC from 
all sources, adjusted to take account of the YGEC's rates in 
effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though 
they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate, less all operating expenses 
of YGEC, including 
expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and 
taxes 
(or payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of 
assets and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges 
on, debt.
 
(v)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by YGEC 
and 
satisfactory to the Association in the fiscal year in which 
the debt in 
question is to be incurred, provided that no event 
has occurred since such 
preparation which has, or may reasonably 
be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results 
of YGEC. 
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. YGEC shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure that 
all amounts due to it on account of its electricity services to its customers are paid 
Page  5
within 60 days of the date on which YGEC bills its customers for such services.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall not 
enter into any loans, contracts, agreements or other instruments providing for capital 
expenditures in power generation in an aggregate amount greater than $10,000,000. For 
purposes of this Section, the term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures 
incurred on account of fixed assets for power generation, including interest charged 
to construction of those assets.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
YGEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates;
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify YGEC of this event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For YGEC:
Yemen General Electricity Corporation
P.O. Box 178
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
ALKAHRABA
2619 YGEC-YE
Sana'a
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of YGEC may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director of YGEC or such other person or persons as 
the Managing Director shall designate in writing, and YGEC shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By /s/ Mohsim Alaini
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $100,000 
per contract and not more than $400,000 in the aggregate may be awarded on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of price quotations obtained from not less than three 
qualified suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 (the Special 
Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist YGEC in the supervision of construction under the Project and 
in implementing the agreed recommendations of the consultants, currently employed by 
YGEC, for improving its organization, management and finance, YGEC shall employ 
consultants whose qualification, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
