희


﻿CREDIT MMER 1701 YAR
cý3            DEVELOPKU-T CREDIT ÅGREEM=p
AGREEKENT, dated       xmt. 171    1988, between YEMEN ARAB
REPUB1,1C (the Borrower) an17NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSÖCIATION
(the Ägsociation).
f> -ý WH.EREAS M  the Borrower, haVing satisfiéd itself as to, the
f easibility, and priority of - the. Proj ect,   described in Schedule 2
'to this Agreement, has requested.the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) , the Project will, be carried  but by the Yemen general
Eleétricity Corporation (YGEC) with 'he Borrowerls týassistanc I
and, as part of such assistance. the Borrower will make available
to YGEC the proceeds of the Credit as'provided in thré ägreement;,,
jand,
(C) to as-gigt in the flnatiting of the-Project. the Borrower
intends to contraet from other sources of f inance, ýoans in an
aggregate amount equilvalent to about 4j6,'100,000; and
.WHEREAS the Association' ha , ~akreed, on the basis inter alia
of the fQiegoing, to extend',the Credit,ýý to the- Borrower-upon the
tcrms and conditions set f orth in this Agreement- and   In the
Proj ect Agreement of ev én date  herewith .between' the Association
aftd YGEC;,
NOWT.HEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agrä-e as follows:
ÅRTICLEI
General Conditions-ý- Definlä  a
Section 1.01. The 'General ýConditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association. dated January 1, 1985ý,ý
(the General Cönditiön»' coiist:ttute an integral part of this          5ý
Agreement.
Séction 1.02.         the-',.co åtext atherwise -r.equires, the-
several terms defined In thé Genera i Conditiöns and in, the
Préamblé to this Agreement have the".,                  therein
set forth and the following.additiönal terms,, häve t-he' following
meanings:,
IJý
(a) ""Pro ect Agreement" means the' agreement between the
Association and YGEC of o,.ven date herewith, as the -same måy be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements suppleinental to the Project Agreement;
(b)° 'Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and YGEC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be' amended
from tIme to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary.Loan Agreenent;
(c) "Special Account" means the 0account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b),_of this Agreement; and
(d) "Project Unit" tmeans the Project Unit established
pursuant to the Project Agreement (Se6ond Power Project), dated
May 15, 1981 between the Association and YGEC, and to be main-
tained pursuant to Section 2.01(b)°of the Pröject Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agreesý to lend to the Bor-
c?rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, 4n amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten -million nine fiundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
Sectipn 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement,1 as such Schedule day be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, fbr expeåditures,ade (,or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be madein respect of the reasonable cos of go1ds and
services requireox-for the Project and to be -fknanced out of the
proceeds of the Credit.,
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and jnaintain in dollars a special acount in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfacto y to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, tie SOecial Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 t this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date aball be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association sha1,, establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the,Borrower of such later date.
O0


﻿-3-
30
Section 2.04. (a) The Börrower shall pay to the. Association
a commitment cha-ge at the rate of one-half df one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respettive dates on which amoånts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall ~be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind iimposed by, or. in the territory of, the
Bprrower; and"(iii) in the currency specified in this' Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
Dsuch other eligible currency or.currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selectäd pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section, 2.05., The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%)- per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and o'tstanding from time to time.
Settion 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges ,shall
be payable semiannually on February. 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower 'shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments pay-ble on each Febru-
ary l and August 1 commencing August 1, 1996, and ending Febru-
ary ~1, 2036. Fach' installment to and including the installmänt
payable on February 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal, amount,and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The cutendy of the, United States> of America
is hereby specified for the  purOoses of Section 4.62 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE-III
Exeeution of the Project.
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
Urp             c


﻿4 -
tion upon any of its other Jobligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause YGEC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
YGEC therein set forth, shall take and cause, to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or a'ppropriate to enable,, YGEC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere -with such
performance.
(b) The   Borrower  §hall  relend  the equivalent in    its
currency (determined as of the dates of withdrawal from the
Credit Account) of the proceeds of the Credit to YGEC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and YGEC under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including, inter alia, provisions
whereby YGEC shall (i) repay the amount so onlent to it over a
period of )20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, and (ii)
pay on the outstanding amount so onlent interest at an annual
rate of not less thad 9%.
(c) The   Borrower shall exercise   its rights under    the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrowero and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, Abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall "otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' serVices
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the -Credit shall be governed by ( he provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provision of, See-
tion 3.01(a) of this Agreement, "the Borrower, shall: (a) parti-
cipate in the annual review, referred to in Section 4,02 (b) of
the Project Agreement, of the adequacy of YGEC's revenues to
achieve, for the following fiscal year of YGEC, the agreed rate
of return specified in Section 4.02 (a) of the Project Agree-
ment; and (b) on the basis of such review, take all'such action
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure and
levels of YGEC's tariffs) as shall be required to enable YGEC
to comply with the provisions of said Section 4.02 (a) of the
Project Agreement.


﻿-5
Section 3.04. The torrower. and the Association, hereby agree
that th ) obligations set forth in Seetions 9.03, 9.049 9.05,
9.06, 9.01 ,and 9.08- of the General  Conditions (relating tooin-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schédules, records
and reports,., maintenance and land acquisition, _ respectively)
shall be carrled, out by YGEC pursuant to Sectiion 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall :otherwise
agre,e,. the, Borrower shall not enter into, any loans, contracts,
ägreements   or   other   instruments   providing   for   capital
expenditures in power generation in an aggregate amount greater
than $10,000,000. For prposes of this Section, the term "capital
expènditures"- Kns 41 -expenditures occurred on account of fixed
assets  for power generation, including interest charged       to
construction of those assets.
_ÄkTICLE i-Iv
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the° purposes of Section 6.02(h) of the
General Coriditions the following additionl events °are specified
pursuant to parágra°phi (h) thereof:C
(a) YGEC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agréetnent.
(b) As a :result' of events which håVe occurred af ter the
date. of this Agreement, an extraordinary, situatioi. shall have
arisen which shall make it iprobablé that, YGEC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Law No. .12 of 1975, as amended by Law No. 26 of 1981,
of the Borrower pertjaining to the establishment and operations of
YGEC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect mater:ially and adversely the ability of
YGEC- to perf orm any of. its.,bligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of YGEC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-6-
(e) The agreement, or any of the agreements, providing   for
the loan or loans referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to
this Agreement, shall have failed to become effective by December,
31, 1986, or such later date as the Association may establish;
provided, howe.er, that the provisions of this paragraph "shall
not apply if tue Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the  Borrower  on  terms  and  conditions   consistent  with  the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC
under the Project Agreement.
(f)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:0o
(A)   he right of the Borrower to withdraw the
iraceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the   terms   of  the   agreement   providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfAction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination   or   prematuring is  not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consIstent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of YGEC under
the Project Agreement,
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the ,ene-
ral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 \
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower;


﻿-7-
(b). any event specified    in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(c)  the event specif ied in,,,paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of'this Agreement shall occur,,subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE v
Effective Date;  Termination
Section  5.01.   The  following  events' are ,specif ied  as
additional conditions to the. effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of. Section 12.01(b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed- on
behalf of the Borrower and JYGEC; and
(b) the Agreement, or Agreements providing the iorrower,
for purposes of financing the Project rwith the approximate total
amount referred to in Recital C of th. Preamble to this Agreement
have been concluded bétween the parties thereto.
Sécfit  5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General
Conditions, to P-te inclüded in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that -.the..,Project- Agreement has been ,uly authorized
or ratified by YGEC, and is legally binding upon YGEC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has, been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and YGEC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and YGEC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 120 days .af ter- the date of this
Agräement 'is hereby specif ied for the pur oses of Sec:ion 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the


﻿-8-
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Planning and Chairman of the
Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                        Telex:
CENPLAN                           2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿C0
-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the-parties heteto, actiu. through their
duly authorized representatives, have éaused°this Agreement to be
signed ini their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United Statfes of America, as of the day and year first above
written,
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By-,
Authorized Representatnve
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
RC4L-    Regional Vice President
Europe, M d1e East and North Africa
0 -3
O)
MI dl ,N
61


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Oithdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods and spare          - 5,350,000        100% of foreign
parts (including                           expenditures
installation a
works)
(2) Meter laboratory             815,000        100%
(supply of goodsi
and installation
work)
(3)  Consultants'
services:                                                               .
(a)' for consr4ction      1,000,000        50% of foreign
supervision                           expenditures
(b) for the plan          1,600,000        100%
referred to in
Part B (2) of
the Project
(4) Training                     470,000        100%
(5) Unallocated                1,665,000
TOTAL               10,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the telm "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of amy country other
0'


﻿00
than that of the Borrower for goods or åervices supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower«
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawaalo shall be made in respect of pikyments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreem,nt, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceéd4!ng the equivalent of
$500,000, may be made on account of paya nta for such expen-
ditures before that date but af ter July 1, 1985.
c  0
2!


﻿-12 -
SCHEDULE 2
: Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist YGEC in (a)
extending electric service from its interconnected grid to the
largest possible !areas, and (b) improving the technical, finan-
cial and administrative capabilities of YGEC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Electrical Works
This ?art includes (a) the connection to the national grid
of towns and adjacent large vililages situated in the areas of
Dhamar, Thila, Hababah, Shibam, Raydah, Khamer and Sanhan;
(b) the reinforcement and ring connection of the temp rary
interconnected towns of Ibb, Dhamar, Rada'a and Yarim and the
extension of their distribution systems to supply surrounding
areas;
(c)  the  extension  of  the  distribution  system  of  the
isolated generation station at 1-Beida, and the installation of
an isolated power station and associated distribution systems inr
each of the town's of Al-Fara and Al-Mantaqa; and
(d)  the constuction, of a meter laboratory in the area of
Sana'a and the replacement of old electricity meters.
a   The above connection and extensions consist of the supply,
construction and/or installation of medium and low voltage lines,
substations, distribution transformers and equipment and three
phase and single phase connections and meters.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Technical services for YGEC for purposes of project engi-
neering sand construction supervision.
2.   Implementation, with the assistance of consultants, of the
plan currently adopted by YGEC for improving its financial posi-,.
tion.


﻿- 13 -
Goa
3.   A training program for YGEC's staff, to be implemented with
the assistance of consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.
(2C
0 0
/


﻿-,14
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the. term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
SDR 470,000 equivalent which is to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower"
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Acc6unt such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each


﻿-                      150
-.15-
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit  Account under   the  respective   Categories  and  in  the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3(b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either *of the following, situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall .have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph      (a) of   Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total umwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus
the amount of any outstanding qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by
the  Association  pursuant   to  Section  5.02  of
the General Conditions, shall be equal to the
equivalent of tice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
,(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
oo)


﻿-16-
6.   (a) c If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not jugtified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph,4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Spedial Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for deposit into the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.. Unless otherwise agreed by the. Associa-
tion, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special 'iAccount will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to, the Association such outstanding amount for deposit into the
Credit Account.
O6


﻿4(1-
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERT11ICATE
1  eY, certifY tat thefoegoing is atucopy
the origna in the archives of the liaternationa
S inomnt Associaton.-
FOR SECRETARY


