Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22495
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28820; PPFI-P8990; PPFI-P9560)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.8 MILLION (US$12.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Private Sector Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.13
US$ 1 = 788 CFA Franc
FISCAL YEAR
July June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMTEL             Cameroon Telecommunications
CDC                Cameroon Development Corporation
COBAC              Commission Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale
CNPS               Caisse Nationale de la Prevoyance Sociale
ILO                International Labor Organization
MFI                Microfinance institution
PPF                Project preparation facility
PPI                Private participation in infiastruture
PU                 Project Unit
SAC                Structural adjustment credit
SNEC               Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun
SNH                Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures
SOCAR              Societe Camerounaise d'Assurance et de Reassurance
SODECOTON          Societe de Developpement du Coton du Cameroun
SONARA             Societe Nationale de Rafinage
SONEL              Societe Nationale d'Electricite
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:   Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:   Mohua Mukherjee



CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 11
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27






Pro ect ID: P041553                                      Pro ect Name: PE/TA
Team Leader: Mohua Mukherjee                             TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PE/TA                                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-28820;
PPFI-P8990;
PPFI-P9560
CountryIDepartment: CAMEROON                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DV - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/12/1995                              Effective:  10/21/1996        03/20/1997
Appraisal:  03/15/1996                               MTR:
Approval:  06/13/1996                              Closing:  12/31/1999         10/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance/Privatization Unit
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Robert Calderisi                          Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                  lain Christie
Team Leader at ICR:   Eric Boucheny                            Eric Boucheny
ICR Primary Author:   Mohua Mukherjee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk- at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective was to support the Government of Cameroon with the
transparent and timely implementation of a set of reforms that would encourage growth and
private sector participation in the economy. These reforms were an integral part of the Bank's



adjustment lending to Cameroon. The Project was a companion piece to the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC H) and during implementation, it also served as a bridge to the
preparation of SAC III.
The Credit was approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on March 20, 1997. The closing
date was extended from December 31, 1999 to October 31, 2000.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project development objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project components were: (a) putting in place an adequate and transparent framework for
privatization/liquidation and implementing a broad divestiture program; (b) supporting the
restructuring of the loan recovery agency and other financial institutions; (c) improving the
regulatory and business environment in specific areas (investment code, competition law and
sectoral regulations such as the mining code) complementary to the privatization program; and (d)
providing preliminary support to the judiciary to initiate a reform program over the next few
years, and supporting the publication of the Official Gazette and Court decisions.
A. Privatization and Liquidation (US$6.6 million)
T1he main objective of this principal project component was to (a) unleash the growth potential in
the agro-industries sector, which had been compromised by a lack of investment and
mismanagement of existing assets under public sector ownership; and (b) address the major
impediment to growth and competitiveness which was caused by poor availability and quality of
public utilities services. Two main sources of benefits were expected: (i) increased investment
and improvements in management of privatized companies; and (ii) sectoral policy reforms
resulting in the creation of a level playing field for private sector development.
The component called for training and capacity building of local consultancy services through the
Privatization Unit (PU), which was to be the implementing agency for the Privatization Program.
Specifically, international consultants were financed to support the PU with achieving (i)
completion of selected privatizations, including the largest enterprises in the agricultural sector
and the public utilities; (ii) completion of ongoing liquidations and the implementation of
procedures for quick removal of non-performiing assets; and (iii) launch of a public information
campaign.
Privatization is an important instrument in the fight against poverty, and also in improving
govemance--the sale of public enterprises removes a source of extra-budgetary funding and
thereby contributes to better governance. The fact that delinquent borrowers from commercial
banks are prevented from participating in bids for public procurement and privatization, also
further contributes to better governance.
B. Financial Sector Restructuring (US$1.9 million)
-2 -



This was the second most significant project component, and must be viewed in the broader
context of SAC II that was still ongoing at the time this component became effective.
In 1995-96 the financial sector was in disarray; most of the banks and the non-bank financial
institutions were bankrupt, and the Loan Recovery Agency was managing a CFAF 700 billion
portfolio (10% of GDP). The TA project was aimed at providing some funding to implement part
of the SAC II conditions and the further actions required. Specifically, the objective was to
complete the restructuring and privatization of two banks within a short timeframe, and to recover
arrears and unpaid loans through the Loan Recovery Agency. Consultant assistance was financed
to support (i) the reorganization of the Loan Recovery Agency to increase the collection of loans,
and (ii) completion of the restructuring/privatization of two of the four largest banks targeted
under SAC II.
The objective of financial sector reform goes well beyond achieving an increase in public sector
savings, and aims at increasing the efficiency of a sector without which macro-economic stability
is hard to achieve. The ultimate aim is to extend the reach of the sector to smaller and poorer
segments of the population, and to rural areas. A first step was to stabilize the sector through
bank and insurance restructuring; financial deepening followed with restructuring of the
microfinance industry and a profound reform of the social security sector.
In the microfinance sector, the Commission Bancaire de I'Afrique Centrale (COBAC, the
regional banking commission) conducted an in-depth analysis of all the microfinance institutions in
the sub-region in order to design a regulatory framework well adapted to each category. This
activity was funded bilaterally, by the French government. In parallel, and in close consultation
with COBAC, the government, through the Finance Law of 1998 and a Prime Ministerial decree,
reminded all microfinance institutions that they needed a license to operate from the Ministry of
Finance, in addition to being registered with the Ministry of Agriculture. This launched the
process of registration of over 400 microfinance institutions in Cameroon. A special unit was
established within the Ministry of Finance with assistance from the project.
In the social security area, a steering commnittee was established in March 1998, composed of
representatives from government, employers and employees to pilot the social security reforms.
In September 1999 the Interministerial Committee adopted a far-reaching global social security
reform strategy (including breakup of the Caisse Nationale de la Prevoyance Sociale, CNPS, into
three components, withdrawal of the govemment, private management of funds, introduction of
fully-funded defined contribution for the pension system, etc.). These recommendations were
validated by the President in December 1999. The project funded the Committee, including their
training. The project also funded a massive consultation process in the preparation of the strategy
with a three day meeting in Yaounde followed by one-day meetings in several regions of the
country.
In parallel, a major effort to restructure certain aspects of CNPS was launched by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) with funding from the project. The objectives were to: (i)
clean up the files of employers, employees and beneficiaries; (b) improve the recovery of
contributions; and (c) update the financial statements. The exercise had mixed results as some
-3 -



objectives were not met (employees and beneficiary files were not cleaned), because of delays
caused by internal problems within ILO, difficulties between CNPS and the project manager, and
opposition to the reform by CNPS.
C. Private Sector Development (US$0.7 million)
This was a pilot component, whose objective was to provide support to actions aimed at
improving the business environment, which were complementary to the privatization program.
Such actions included (i) adoption of the Competition and anti-dumping law; (ii) review of the
incentives system, especially the investment code; and (iii) review of sectoral regulations such as
the mining code, petroleum imports, a review of the energy framework to support private sector
participation, etc. This component was designed in light of the private sector assessment
completed in 1996 with the objective of (a) continuing the dialogue started during the private
sector roundtable with the objective of preparing a more focused operation in future; and (b)
implementing a limited number of priority actions. Finally, the component also reflected the need
to have a limited pool of resources to finance unexpected studies and activities.
D. Strengthening the Judiciary (US$0.9 million)
This was another pilot component, "experimental" in nature, with the intention of introducing and
building momentum on judiciary issues that the Bank was considering subsequently including in
SAC III. The judiciary component was also closely linked to restructuring of the financial sector,
since performance of the sector was also hampered by the weakness of the courts and
non-uniformity of judgments, as well as a lack of public awareness with respect to various
judgments and legal precedents. Specifically, the component aimed to provide limnited support to
the Ministry of Justice to (i) enable the regular publication of judgments in the area of business
law and the financial sector, and to publish the Official Gazette on an ongoing basis; and (ii)
strengthen the Inspection Directorate to complete court inspections.
Component                             Cost                      Rating
PRIVATIZATION AND LIQUIDATION         $6,600,000.00             S
FINANCIAL SECTOR                      $1,900,000.00             S
JUDICIARY                             $900,000.00               U
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT            $700,000.00               S
OTHER (PPF REFINANCING, AUDITS)       $2,600,000.00             NR
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was well designed, with clear emphasis on, and the largest share of funds allocated to,
the components whose completion was urgently needed in order to support the government's
reform targets. The main justification for this Project, as a companion to the adjustment credit,
was to bring about a transparent and timely implementation of the government's strategy that was
- 4-



being supported under the adjustment operation.
Experience has shown that a privatization program is a complex activity, requiring a great deal of
specialized capacity to prepare a series of transactions and to ensure that they are carried out in a
transparent manner which will yield the greatest benefits both to the government, and also to the
public which will continue to be served by the privatized enterprises. Cameroon, like most other
countries, did not have this specialized capacity in-house within the government when it embarked
on the reform program. Following lessons of international sound practice, project design called
for making available this specialized capacity in a timely manner, so that the Government could
receive the best possible advice related to each transaction. In recognition of the multi-year (but
ultimately temporary) requirement for this expertise, given the relatively large number of public
enterprises to be privatized or liquidated, an effort was made to establish a core implementation
team made up of local consultants, housed at the PU, and to supplement this team with technical
expertise from outside; this design was based on international best practice.
It was rightly felt that potential setbacks to the privatization program could result from improper
handling of any one or more transactions, and carried the risk of endangering and discrediting the
entire program.  Specifically, such adverse developments could have disastrous financial
consequences for the government budget (by halting the programn, ceasing the inflow of revenues
from sales and keeping loss-making enterprises on the government's books), and would far
outweigh the relatively small sum of technical assistance support which could potentially forestall
such a risk.
The Project rationale and objectives were therefore convincing, and a lot of the work in
components A and B was already underway at the time of Board presentation, with the support of
a project preparation facility (PPF). This ongoing momentum and initial energy may serve to
explain the very ambitious targets that were set during project appraisal, such as the hoped-for
privatization of 18 enterprises in two years, and the completion of 26 ongoing liquidations, at
least five bidders for each enterprise, and the average privatization process not to exceed one year
for each of the targeted enterprises. The conclusion would have to be, therefore, that while the
strategy and the sequence of actions defined to be followed had a great deal of merit, the
expectations of the project team were overly optimistic in terms of what could be accomplished in
this first round of the privatization process with a new implementing agency, the PU.
It was also a good strategy to include the two subsidiary components, on judiciary reform and the
business environment, since these are important ingredients for a healthy PSD environment, and
the policy dialogue that must have preceded the inclusion of these components in the TA credit,
was undoubtedly very useful in terms of exchanging these views with the government.
Particularly the component on judiciary reform, as a trial balloon for inclusion in a subsequent
adjustment operation, served a useful purpose even though it had to be ultimately abandoned. In
terms of its design, it was an honest attempt to respond to a variety of feedback from the private
sector assessment, namely that there was no systematic dissemination of information on court
rulings that affected or set precedents in business law, there was no systematic issuance of new
decrees and regulations in an Official Gazette, that the application of justice was inconsistent
-5 -



throughout the country depending on which court was hearing the case, and that courts would
benefit from regular inspections, and so on. The component was designed to address each of
these items,- by providing direct TA to the Ministry of Justice, with resources and expertise to
initiate a regular system for informnation gathering related to the Official Gazette, for its
publication, and for carrying out inspections of courts to provide the private sector with access to
uniform application of legal recourse.
It became clear during the attempted implementation of this component that it would be
inadvisable to pursue this component more in-depth in the subsequent adjustment operation, and
to that extent it must be judged that this finding served to improve the overall design of SAC lII
(i.e., leaving out a judicial component when it was recognized that the Bank clearly had not yet
identified a successful instrument with which to respond to the judicial shortcomings identified by
the private sector). Another, more practical reason for omitting the judicial component was that
SAC III already had a very broad agenda (macroeconomic framework, privatization, forestry,
port), and to have introduced another area in which there was admittedly limited political will at
the time, would have served to increase complexity and difficulty of supervision and monitoring.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project objectives of (i) providing transparent and timely implementation support to the
privatization program, and (ii) to restructure the financial sector in order to stop the fiscal drain
from loss-making financial sector entities, were both achieved. The hoped-for development
impact, in terms of unleashing growth through rejuvenation of the agro-industrial and utilities
sectors has not come about yet. However, the processes have been set in motion and the Project
has played its role in delivering the assistance that was envisaged. While the specific numerical
targets of at least 18 privatizations and 26 liquidations must be judged to be over-optimistic, it is
noted that a wide range of transactions, covering an important part of the previous parastatal
sector, was indeed successfully completed with assistance from the project. Foreign and domestic
private investment increased as a result of selected agricultural privatizations, and increases in
public sector savings were achieved as a result of restructurings/privatizations and loan recovery
actions in the financial sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Privatization and Liquidation
While in quantitative terms fewer firms than expected were privatized to completion, we note that
important progress was initiated under this project. First and foremost, a transparent mechanism
for privatization was put into place with an overhaul of the privatization unit. Second, major
privatizations were launched with financing from the project. This is the case of the three public
utilities (water, telecommunications and electricity). The privatization of Cameroon Development
Corporation (CDC), a large multi-sector agro-industrial company, was also launched.
- 6 -



The regulatory agencies for electricity and telecommunications were set up with direct financial
support under the project.
Eleven firms were successfully privatized, and 26 were liquidated. Specifically, public enterprises
in rubber, palm oil, sugar and dairy were successfully privatized with technical assistance provided
under the project. Two of the four largest agricultural enterprises which were targeted for
privatization on a fast track, but which have had a series of delays associated with their transfer to
private ownership, are CDC and SODECOTON (a cotton parastatal). CDC is the biggest
company in the agricultural sector, and its activities extend to banana, rubber, tea and palm oil
cultivation. CDC is also situated in the English-speaking part of the country, and is a major local
employer which provides housing and medical services to its workers. The multinational
corporation Del Monte has a concession to operate the banana plantations of CDC, and Del
Monte considers that it has the right of first refusal on the purchase of the banana plantations as
well as eventually all the other activities of CDC, should these be put up for sale. A series of
issues which arose during the discussions on CDC privatization indicated that not enough
awareness-raising had been done through the PU to prepare the company or its workers for
privatization. The reasons for CDC delays are twofold: (i) CDC's financial advisor performed
unexpectedly poorly, and this has helped provide ammunition to opponents of the transaction; (ii)
the Bank underestimated the sensitivity of the transaction. Ex-post, a lesson learned here is that
new consultants should have been brought in earlier, when the financial advisor was not doing his
job properly.
In the case of SODECOTON, 40% of the company's shares held by other public enterprises were
sold under improper procedures in 1995. The Bank thought this issue could be addressed under
the TA project, but in fact the matter has moved from court to court and is still under litigation.
In addition, given the role of SODECOTON and its impact on the life of people in northem
Cameroon, the Government was extremely reluctant to proceed with the transaction, as was the
other large minority shareholder, CFDT of France (30% shareholdership, and had threatened to
sue to block privatization).
The privatization strategy received a boost in June 1995 with the Government decision to expand
the program to key public utilities, including the power, water and telecommunications
companies. In the utilities sector, the most progress has been achieved with the restructuring and
almost-completed privatization of the telecommunications company and the issuance of a first and
second cellular license. A successful bidder has also been selected for the electricity company,
where negotiations are underway; the water company privatization process is ongoing and
telephone company sale negotiations are also underway. In addition, the railway company and the
national shipping company privatizations were concluded with assistance provided under this
Project, although their privatization process had initially started (and studies were funded) under a
transport TA credit; the initial dialogue had mostly been with the sectoral ministry. One of the
underlying objectives of this credit was to have a non-sectoral approach with respect to the
implementation of divestiture.
New laws were adopted for regulation of the telecommunication, post, electricity, port and air
transport sectors, together with their implementing decrees. In addition, a new competition law
- 7 -



was also adopted during the course of this project.
The expected revenue target was about US$80 million; in fact this was greatly exceeded and
revenues of about US$200 million were realized from sales of public enterprises during this
project.
Transparency. A very important contribution of this project is that it successfully introduced
transparency and documentation into the privatization process, to a large extent. Prior to the this
project, Bank reports note that privatization in Cameroon had been, to a great extent, a purely
bureaucratic exercise guided by conflicting regulations, lacking transparency and requiring
clearances from too many layers in the decision-making process.
The primary shortcoming in this component is that the public awareness campaign related to the
privatization process was never launched, and this may in fact have contributed in some measure
to a perceived slackening of momentum of the program recently. Part of the reason for the
omission of the public awareness campaign was due to initial delays on the government's side, in
terms of agreeing on how it would be implemented, and thereby reflecting a dissension of views
among decision-makers related to their differing overall comfort levels with the privatization
strategy. However, the Bank may have also underestimated the importance of maintaining this
subject at the forefront of the dialogue in spite of the aforementioned difficulties. Particularly for
the utilities companies (SNEC and SONEL), the lack of public awareness with regard to
regulatory issues and the need for the establishment of capable regulatory agencies up-front,
posed a problem. The need to inform the public about the disadvantages of having the
Government in the role of service provider and regulator simultaneously, and how this would be
likely to have a deterrent effect on potential private investment, was not widely appreciated or
understood. A capable public relations effort in advance of launching the transactions would have
prevented this, and would have thereby prevented a reinforcement and hardening of the
disagreements amongst key decision makers regarding the political salability of the privatization
process. The question arises now, as to how much of the slowdown that the privatization
program is currently facing, might have been avoided with a more energetic awareness effort in
the early phase of the program. There is a natural tendency, both among govemment reformers
and the technical assistance team that is providing support to the privatization program, to
measure progress in terms of quantitative targets, monitored by the number of enterprises
privatized or liquidated. This approach carries the associated risk of allowing some key activities
that are harder to measure, e.g., launch of a public awareness campaign, to fall through the cracks
during implementation.
The Bank has engaged in dialogue with Government on the need to improve and pro-actively
manage its public communications/awareness strategy, and this has been recognized by both sides
as a shortcoming that extends beyond the scope of this project. The Bank is providing assistance
to Government in terms of capacity building and awareness raising within Government on the
importance of maintaining a professional communications effort in place.
B. Financial Sector Restructuring
-8 -



All financial sector restructuring targets under the project were met or exceeded.
Cameroon has a relatively complex financial sector with many players, and was facing a serious
financial crisis in November 1995, prior to the restructuring process. Non-performing loans of the
banks represented about a third of the portfolio, and the Government's accumulated debt to the
banking sector was CFAF 246 billion (US$362 million). Four out of the five largest banks were
technically bankrupt, and the insurance agency and social security agencies were similarly in a
precarious situation due to large arrears from the government. A Loan Recovery Agency had
been established in 1989 to recover bad loans, and needed strengthening in order to fulfill its
functions. Explicit project objectives in the financial sector called for only the restructuring of
two banks and improved performance of the loan recovery agency.
With technical assistance support under the project, all commercial banks are now solvent, liquid
and profitable; two have been privatized with support from the this credit. The Loan Recovery
Agency has been strengthened, and its performance has improved; it has met and exceeded its
targets. A far reaching restructuring plan for the social security system has been adopted by the
Government and is being implemented with the support of ILO. A new law regulating
micro-finance institutions (MFIs) has been adopted and a new unit in charge of supervision of
MFIs has been created within the Ministry of Finance. The government has also initiated the
liquidation of the National Reinsurance Company, which was a financial burden on the budget and
the sector. An insurance company (SOCAR) was successfully privatized.
C. Preliminary Support to Improve the Private Sector Environment
This component has had limited success and impact.  The primary achievement is the
establishment and staffing of a public-private Competition Commission. However, the design and
vision of this Commission is not appropriate from the Bank's viewpoint (too many ministries are
represented), but the Bank felt that it would be better to tackle this at a later stage. The
formulation of a new mining code was also supported in this component, and was drafted
although it experienced major delays and is still awaiting adoption. A study on petroleum
imports, storage and distribution practices was also carried out in this component. New sectoral
policies and regulations related to petroleum have been adopted by Government, and the role of
Societe Nationale de Rafinage (SONARA) and Societ Nationale des Hydrocarbures (SNH) has
been reviewed. One of the studies which was foreseen under this component, to develop a
transparent and equitable tax incentive system, was never carried out. However, to the extent
that the component broadly was providing support to increased private participation in
infrastructure, this has been achieved as there are now identified or shortlisted bidders for SONEL
(electricity), SNEC (water), and CAMTEL (fixed telecommunications plus third cellular). With
the hoped-for improvements in the levels and coverage of service in these basic utilities, it is
expected that the costs of doing business will go down (important component of private sector
environment) and these effects will stimulate more rapid private sector growth than would
otherwise be the case.
D. Judiciary Reform and Publication of Official Gazette
-9-



The performance of this component is judged to be unsatisfactory. While the intention was to
provide assistance to the Ministry of Justice in order to bring about improvements in the
administration of justice, no funds were disbursed under this component and it was in fact
suspended based on communications conveyed in an Aide Memoire. Six full court inspections
were planned to be carried out per year; a number of inspections were indeed conducted, and over
120 judges and other staff were identified for corrective action, although no follow-up actions
were ever taken. The publication of the Official Gazette was resumed, through the printing
facilities at the Office of the Presidency (the TA project had envisaged outsourcing the printing
contract), but the systems for regularly updating infornation and ensuring prompt publication of
ministerial decrees and rulings, Supreme Court judgments, etc., were never put in place, and
hence the effort was not sustainable. (The publication process itself was sustainable, since it was
financed by Government's own resources, but the quality issue, in terms of capturing
comprehensive and relevant information to publish, remains unaddressed.) The same can be said
of other attempts to disseminate news of judicial decisions and Supreme Court decisions,
particularly those with business law implications.
As a matter of interest, French and Canadian bilateral assistance had also been offered to support
reforms in the judicial sector, but have met with similar negative results. These donors have
sharply curtailed their assistance program in this area.
Envisaged Link with Adjustment Credit. A series of problems had been identified with the
administration of justice, and the negative impact this had on the financial sector and private
sector development in particular was well understood. Several of the problems were attributable
to the small budget on which the judiciary operates. Salaries (including judges' compensation) are
very low following the 1993 wage cuts, and have not been restored to their previous levels as was
the case with some other civil servants' salaries. Courthouses typically have no equipment and
supplies, and litigating parties must supply paper and pencils to the judge. Buildings are often in
ruins. The legal profession and the public operate with minimal information regarding awareness
of judgments that have been passed, and judgments are often rendered in contradiction to the law.
For all these reasons, it was considered important to offer in-depth support to the judiciary in the
subsequent structural adjustment credit (SAC III), that would be prepared during the
implementation of this TA project. The judiciary component of this project was considered a
forerunner of what would be tackled, and was viewed as a preliminary tool to engage the Ministry
of Justice which typically did not have prior experience with the Bank. This strategy could not be
successfully carried out.  One interpretation is that until the more fundamental resource
requirements of the judicial sector can be addressed, the marginal measures which were attempted
under this project will have difficulty securing the "buy-in" of interested parties. However, the
project had allocated about US$0.75 million to this component which is not insignificant, and had
succeeded in maintaining pressure to raise the salaries of judges.
The lack of success with this component in the TA project led to the exclusion of the judiciary
sector from the scope of SAC III.
Under the governance program agreed to as a condition for access to the HIPC decision point,
the Government has committed itself to conducting an audit of the judiciary process. However,
- 10-



this will not address the immediate threat facing the banks. The issue has remained unresolved to
date.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the Project has been modest, although high marks
are due in the financial sector, particularly for the Loan Recovery Agency. The PU has been an
important legacy of the Project, and it is now successfully engaged in implementing the Public
Private Partnership for Growth and Poverty Reduction project (Cr. 3359-CAM). There were
initial difficulties with the leadership of the PU, and a wide divergence in the perceptions of the
Bank and the client in terms of the level of transparency that was required. More than two years
passed before the PU developed sufficient capacity to implement IDA procurement procedures.
The PU was restructured in 1998, and a new head was appointed while the organization itself was
split into a public enterprise rehabilitation section and a liquidation section. Staffing has been
upgraded to enable the PU to implement the new project. The role of the PU has actually gone
beyond the introduction of transparency to the process. Valuable learning has occurred in terms
of grappling with the initial, conflicting institutional mandate that the PU was operating under. As
noted, the first round of staffing had its problems. However, having gone through all these
teething pains, the PU is now a solid institution containing a set of skills that is very scarce
(including international standards of procurement management and accumulated knowledge on
private participation in infrastructure) in Cameroon. The Government's intention is to absorb the
PU into the Ministry of Finance upon completion of its privatization responsibilities, and utilize
the expertise to handle the issue of private participation in infrastructure on a full time basis.
Other institutional legacies of the project include the creation of regulatory agencies for electricity
and telecommunications, and the establishment of a social security reform steering committee
which has performed extremely well and through a participatory approach, resulting in the
adoption of a sound policy. The project has also been instrumental in helping to support the
Government's Comite Technique de Suivi, which was set up to follow up on the privatization
agenda and monitor progress.
A recent audit of all projects in Cameroon indicated that this project was the best run in terms of
control and financial management. With the exception of the judiciary component, the project has
been fully disbursed, which is again the result of close monitoring.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No significant exogenous factors appear to have affected the outcome of this Project. To the
extent that the impact of the reforms on overall economic growth and living standards was
- 11 -



possibly slower to materialize than expected, this may have contributed to some of the resistance
and delays in continuing the privatization effort, e.g., the large agro-industrial enterprises. This
would have been due to the perceived lack of opportunities for alternative private sector
employment opportunities faced by employees retrenched from the public sector.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The lack of implementation of the public awareness program is the most striking issue that was
subject to government control. The failure to build a sufficiently solid consensus around the
privatization program, which would have led to a widespread debate in civil society, and would
have involved an educational effort related to explaining the government's strategy to the public at
large, has had an impact on the implementation of the Project, particularly in the later stages of
the program. In a similar vein, the lack of progress in the judicial component of the Project is
another factor that was subject to govermment control. We recognize that the component
suffered from a lack of political commitment, and possibly the choice of interlocutors. If the
government had been truly willing to make progress in the area of judicial reform, they could have
engaged the task team and provided constructive inputs on how the allocated resources could
have been put to better use. It seems that the opportunity to tackle some of the difficult judicial
issues identified by the private sector was missed during the course of implementation. In
retrospect, the Bank team showed willingness to address the subject but needed more guidance
from government on what would have worked; such guidance from government was apparently
not forthcoming. We are also concluding that one of the overall success factors for this project
was its link with an adjustment operation, and it is possible that the Govermnent is more likely to
demonstrate commitment to components that contain links with fast disbursing resources.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was a two-plus year delay at the implementing agency in gaining adequate familiarity with
IDA procurement rules, filing and documentation procedures, and putting in place an adequate
staffing complement relative to the tasks that were needed to be carried out.  The lack of a
tradition of transparency (of the level expected by IDA) in terms of transferring state-owned
assets to the private sector, and possibly the divergence in messages and instructions that the
implementing agency may have been receiving from IDA and from certain members of the
government, probably added to the delays in carrying out certain complex transactions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The financing of the Project was adequate, as noted above, and all components were disbursed
except for the judiciary component. The amount of the Credit was SDR 8.8 million (US$12.6
million equivalent). Of the total Credit, SDR 7.66 million (87%) was disbursed; SDR 1,142,998
will be cancelled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The reforms supported by the TA under this Project are judged to be sustainable, i.e. the
- 12 -



privatizations are not likely to be reversed. The broad changes in the regulatory framework which
now call for competition, and the introduction of private capital and management into the utilities
sectors, are also not likely to be reversed. This is particularly the case also in the financial sector,
where inter alia, bank ownership has changed hands and previously loss-making banks have now
become profitable. Social security reforms are also unlikely to be reversed. Regulatory agencies
now exist with roles and functions--these are all likely to be sustainable reformns.
The future of the Privatization Unit has been planned, in order not to lose the expertise and
experience that has developed as a result of association with two IDA supported privatization
projects. A location of expertise on Private Participation in Infrastructure is very important in
terms of providing a bridge between government ministries, local communities requiring
assistance with design of bidding documents, selection process etc, the regulatory agencies and
the private investors, and is likely to be a sustainable entity within the Ministry of Finance in the
future. This future transformation of the PU into a PPI (private participation in infrastructure)
agency also offers the promise of a career path to the staff members concerned, and encourages
them to develop their skills and stay together as a unit. The government has always supported the
PU with significant counterpart resources (US$1 million per year), which is a good indication of
the importance they place on this entity.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given that privatization is a time-bound effort requiring highly specialized skills only for the
duration of implementation and for a short post-privatization transition period, we do not expect
that a full-fledged transition arrangement is required, nor recommended. To the extent that the
PU will be transformed into a PPI Agency when the privatization agenda is completed, we are
satisfied that this objective will receive appropriate attention and support to ensure
implementation at the appropriate time.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
There was a fairly important amount of analytical work done on privatization in Cameroon to
back up this project, and the PPF helped to advance the work prior to Board presentation, which
was thought to have added some further realism to the targets established in the appraisal report.
In hindsight, some of these targets turned out to have been over-optimistic, as was noted earlier.
However, the Project was instrumental in mobilizing a wide range of consultancy advice to the
government for a large number of public enterprises, and much of the work was planned to be
undertaken simultaneously and in parallel, by different consultants. At the time of Board
presentation, it was not possible to foresee which of the companies' sales would be stalled, and
which would proceed without impediment. The issue of a lack of common vision among Cabinet
members was raised during appraisal, and the strong commitment to the project's goals being
limited to the Ministry of Finance were flagged as major risks to the Project in the appraisal
report. However, given the initial energy with which the Project was embarked on, the very
ambitious quantitative targets set at the time for sales (18) and liquidations (26) could possibly be
defended ex-post, even at this stage, although they were not met. The real demonstration of
- 13-



over-optimism, however, lies in the hoped-for targets of five bidders per enterprise (in many cases
there were only one or two), and the estimated timetable of less than one year per transaction.
The Credit-amount seems to have been about right, given the unforeseen cancellation of the
Judiciary component and the need to extend the project by 10 months because of up front delays
in implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision effort was intensive, with an average of three missions per year and a full-time
headquarters staff at the Resident Mission for regular follow up. Regular end-of-mission
communications from the Bank to government officials are notable for their insistence on a
multitude of deadlines by which a series of actions were required from Government, and
consequences of inaction were clearly spelled out. The Bank and IMF's leverage has been
carefully managed throughout the project, and many privatization actions have been linked to
irnportant disbursements on adjustment credits.
The last supervision report mentions "slowness in Government decisions due to lack of common
vision among Cabinet members", but this issue may have perhaps merited more attention that it
received from senior management. On the other hand, it is fair to say that in the company of very
large adjustment operations and IMF funding, it was not the appropriate role for a TA project
supervision report to be drawing conclusions about overall slippage in the policy dialogue.
Another important issue is the "lack of control over management of companies to be divested".
In the particular cases where powerful managing directors of certain public enterprises were in a
position to resist reforms, the TA support team found that its allies in government were unwilling
to intervene.
The Bank's optimism with regard to government buy-in appears to have been premature and
would have benefited from additional consultations to foster increased ownership.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank fulfilled its fiduciary responsibilities with regard to this project, and carried out
supervision missions on average three times a year. There was also close coordination of the
private sector unit with the macro unit and IMF. The team demonstrated pro-activity in terms of
processing the extension of closing dates and particularly, with the preparation of the follow-up
project when it was recognized that much more assistance would be needed particularly for the
utilities and remaining agro-industrial parastatals. Specifically, the decision to design a follow-up
operation was based on the fact that much more assistance was needed to: (i) strengthen the
regulatory agencies; (ii) implement second generation reforms related to private participation in
infrastructure; (iii) expand the public partnership concept to other areas (social sectors); (iv)
implement the Social Security reform policy; (iv) establish a tool to support the HIPC and PRSP
process.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 14 -



The Borrower's performance would have to be rated satisfactory in terms of preparation of the
Project, and its willingness to subsequently include the important utility companies (electricity,
water and telecommunications) within the scope of the privatization program. The Borrower
defined an ambitious program, and set up a PU to assist with implementation, all of which are
constructive inputs to ensuring the Project's success. Moreover, the Borrower's satisfactory
performnance rating is based on achievements in the financial sector, social security reforns,
advances in private sector development issues (petroleum policy, mining, establishment of
Competition Commission etc), which go beyond the privatization objectives of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation performance is rated as broadly satisfactory, since much progress was
achieved under the Project, especially in the financial sector but also in the tradable goods sector
and the utilities sector. One shortcoming, which is fairly common in countries with a large
state-owned sector that also happens to be a major employer in the economy, was the
Government's failure to build consensus within its own ranks and by extension, within society at
large, regarding the privatization program. The failure of reformers within the Government to
push through the implementation of the public awareness campaign, and their subsequent inaction
with respect to tackling vested interests in key positions (e.g. some managers of public enterprises
targeted for privatization), is likely to have contributed to delays and roadblocks in the latter part
of project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
This is rated as satisfactory, and the PU's performance certainly showed significant improvement
over the life of the Project, from a shaky start. Much was achieved (11 privatizations and 26
liquidations, with continuing progress on another several companies). It should also be noted that
the implementing agency was subsequently appraised in January 2000 and found suitable to carry
out a follow-on project. Achieving the levels of transparency that are built in to IDA procedures
and regulations proved to be a time-taking exercise for the agency, and required some staffing
changes, including leadership changes. The lack of a widely advertised public awareness
campaign is a tell-tale sign of an absence of consensus within government, and one may speculate
that this made the day-to-day work of the PU much harder than it would have been in a more
harmonious environment. In particular, it is conceivable that the agency, engaged on the one
hand in dialogue and capacity building with IDA, was receiving contrary instructions from key
Cabinet members who were opposed to the privatization process, and who had been instrumental
in preventing the public awareness campaign.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Based on the overall outcomes achieved, in the agro-industries, transport, financial sector and
utilities, this is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lesson learned in this TA Project has been that macroeconomic reforms and privatization
announcements on paper need to be followed through by putting in place the required technical
- 15 -



capacity to implement and deliver them, and that political commitment of key players is essential.
Experience with the joint implementation of SAC ml and this Project shows that the combination
of an adjustment operation and of a capacity building operation provides satisfactory outcomes,
and also underscores the importance of harmonized activities to achieve micro and
macro-economic reforns in parallel. Many of the issues which arose in the privatization program
are in fact micro issues related to specific enterprises and the conditions under which they are to
operate after privatization.
Another key lesson learned arises from the government's resistance to launching the public
awareness campaign, which ultirnately was not pursued under the Project. The lesson here is that
adequate time and resources should be invested in "soft" activities of this nature as part of the
implementation effort, even if they involve prolonged dialogue with unconvinced ministers to
launch the awareness campaign, and do not in and of themselves lead to any easily measurable
indicators or outputs. There is understandably a temptation to move ahead with numerical
targets for enterprises to be privatized or liquidated, which can then be reported as concrete
project outputs, but it is entirely possible that a lack of attention to the government's reasons for
refusal to implement an awareness campaign, may in the end limit the overall scope of the
program. Specifically, the initial efforts by the Bank to follow up on implementing the public
awareness campaign faltered due to (i) procurement issues; (ii) the program was moving ahead
and Government's refusal did not appear, at the time, to be a bottleneck; and (iii) at the end,
budgetary issues.
Two items particularly were de-emphasized due to budget constraints on the Bank's side: one was
the attempt to provide further follow-up on the judicial component, and the other was a continued
push on the public awareness campaign. In both cases there was resistance from certain quarters
in government, and under task budget constraints it was not possible to maintain the intensity of
follow up that these (particularly the public awareness issue) might have required. Indeed, a
regulatory seminar which would have been very helpful in terms of raising awareness on issues
that could have moved forward the dialogue on utilities privatization, had to be abandoned during
implementation, due to Bank budget constraints.
The need for close supervision of TA projects is an important lesson, which should probably also
have an impact on budget preparation within the Bank.  In the case of this Project the
implementation was much more time and resource consuming than preparation (restructuring of
financial sector, privatization, introduction of new legislation and regulation). The continued
presence of a headquarters staff member during implementation was a factor contributing to
successful implementation.
Experience also indicates the need to extend IDA relations and awareness building to all
stakeholders, both within government and outside; for example, contacts with the private sector
were critical in designing responsive policies. The other lesson of great importance is to take a
longer and more realistic view and to allow sufficient time for response to fundamental changes in
the structure of the economy.
Judiciary Component: Many meetings were held with Government during the life of the project,
- 16 -



but no progress was achieved because of a lack of political will. A lesson learned is that in the
absence of political will, it is impossible to implement judiciary reforrn. For these reasons the
judiciary component was left out of SAC III as an explicit component, although the dialogue with
Government has continued. Today, deficiencies in the judiciary system are a major cause for the
vulnerability of the banking sector, and particularly act as a deterrent to private investment
(foreign and domestic).  A joint Bank-lMF mission in May 2001 conducted an in-depth analysis
of the situation through consultations with banks and businesses. Some of the immediate
measures proposed to the highest levels, were in fact included in the IMF Letter of Intent. That
authorities appeared to become more aware of the situation and stated their commitment to take
action. A new minister of justice was appointed, who may demonstrate more willingness to make
progress in this area (he is not a magistrate himself). In parallel, and for the medium- to
long-term, the authorities have agreed to an audit of the judiciary, and terms of reference are
being discussed with the Bank and the IMF.
Poverty Impact of Financial Sector Improvements: With the restructured banking system, all
customers now have full and regular access to their deposits, which was not previously the case.
Public servants do not have to wait for banks to find liquidity before obtaining the cash value of
their salary. These public servants typically support extended families in urban as well as rural
areas. Immnediate access to bank liquidity has improved the living conditions of many families.
Similarly, retirees have access to their pension benefits once the transfer from the social security
agency to the banks is effected. Previously, the lack of liquidity in the banking sector had forced
many retirees into poverty.
Other actions within the project also have a direct contribution to poverty alleviation. The social
security component will primarily secure the benefits paid out by CNPS, but will also explore
ways to provide a safety net to some of the people currently not covered by CNPS. The
restructuring and strengthening of MFIs within a reliable legal and regulatory framework will also
permit the mobilization of savings in urban neighborhoods and rural areas, and provide access to
credit for the poor.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments were received.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Project Development Objective      Outcome/Impact Indicators           Outcome
Transparent implementation of      Reduction of financial transfers to PEs   Achieved, no more
reforms supported by SAC II and                                        subsidies to privatized
SAC III to encourage growth and                                        entities
private sector participation in the
economy                            Increase in foreign and domestic    Dollar amount far higher
private investment (at least $30   ($200 million) but only 12
million), and specifically in the  enterprises privatized
number of PEs privatized (at least 18)
Improved efficiency of enterprises and   Not yet known
key public utilities; reduction by 8% of
technical losses
Increases in public sector savings, and   Achieved; see section on
reform of the financial sector     financial sector
Improved regulatory and business   Establishment of Competitiveness    Completed
environment for the private sector  Committee
Output from each Component         Output Indicators                   Outcome
A. Privatization and Liquidation   Increase in government revenues by at   Actual revenues were in
least $80 million                  excess of $200 million
Privatization of at least 18 enterprises    12 enterprises were
over two years                     privatized over the 2-year
period
On average 5 bidders for each      Target turned out to be
enterprise                         unrealistic given modest
investor interest in
Cameroon
Average privatization process not to  The complexity of the
exceed one year for each enterprise  transactions was
underestimated; this target
could not be achieved
Average cost of transactions not to  Achieved, in part due to
exceed 8% of the sales proceeds    high proceeds
Completion of 26 ongoing liquidations   Completed
over 18 months
Expansion of information system on  Completed
PEs (SISEP)
-18-



B. Restructuring two banks and the  Restructuring of two banks completed    Two banks privatized, all
Loan Recovery Agency (LRA)        by end 1996, and banks profitable by    restored to solvency
end 1997
US$ 15 million recovered through   Targets exceeded.
LRA by June 1996; US$18 million
plus 7% of the new portfolio by end
1997
C. Preliminary support to improve  Study of a transparent and equitable  Not done
the private sector environment    incentive system
Increase of private sector participation   Achieved due to regulatory
in infrastructure                  reforms and the
privatization process
D. Strengthening the Judiciary     Resumption of regular publication of    Not done
the Official Gazette by Oct 1996 on a
financially sustainable basis
Publication of the Official Gazette  Not done
financed by the Government by end
March 1998
6 full court inspections completed  Not done
each year
Regular publication of the Supreme  Not done
Court jurisprudence
Publication of a Financial Sector Law    Not done
Review
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost-by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
A. Privatization and Liquidation                    10.26          8.27             80
B. Private Sector Development                                      0.48
C. Financial Sector                                 2.05           2.85            139
D. Support to the Judicial System                    1.06          0.04              3
E. Preliminary Review of the Business               0.70           0.00              0
F. Audits                                           0.17           0.04             24
G. PPF Refmancing                                   2.10           0.55
Total Baseline Cost                                 16.34          12.23
Physical Contingencies                             0.10
Price Contingencies                                0.33
Total Project Costs            16.77          12.23
Total Financing Required             16.77          12.23
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.46         0.21         0.00          0.00        0.67
(0.46)       (0.21)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.67)
3. Services                  0.49         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.49
(0.49)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.49)
4. Training and Seminars     0.00         0.00         0.41          0.00        0.41
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.41)       (0.00)       (0.41)
5. Consulting Services       0.00         0.00         8.81          3.00        11.81
((0.0)         .00)       (8.81)       (0.00)       (8.81)
6. Operating Costs, PPF      0.00         0.00         2.22          1.17        3.39
Refinancing and Taxes       (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.22)        (0.00)       (2.22)
Total                     0.95          0.21         11.44        4.17         16.77
(0.95)       (0.21)       (11.44)      (0.00)      (12.60)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB       Mthod2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other'
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.02         0.42         0.00         0.44
(0.00)      (0.01)        (0.32)       (0.00)      (0.33)
- 20 -



3. Services                      5.75           1.13          4.12           0.00          11.00
(4.84)         (0.95)        (3.47)         (0.00)        (9.26)
4. Training-and Seminars         0.00           0.00          0.14           0.00          0.14
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.1 1)        (0.00)        (0.1 1)
5. Consulting Services           0.00           0.65          0.00           0.00          0.65
(0.00)        (0.55)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.55)
6. Operating Costs, PPF          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
Refinancing and Taxes           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         5.75           1.80          4.68           0.00          12.23
(4.84)         (1.51)        (3.90)         (0.00)        (10.25)
XFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt       CoF.      IDA       Govt.      CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Privatization &           6.60                3.00      7.03       1.36              106.5           0.0
Liquidation
Private Sector            0.68                          0.28       0.05               41.2
Development
Financial Sector          1.90      0.80                2.29       0.44              120.5  55.0
Judicial System           0.86      0.30                0.04       0.01               4.7    3.3
Audits                    0.14                          0.04       0.01               28.6
Publications                                            0.02       0.01
PPF & SAA                 2.43                          0.55       0.10               22.6
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Pre-Appr.                    6   Lawyer Consultant,
(June-July 1995                   Telecommunications Specialist,
PSD Specialist, Structural
adjustment Specialist, Financial
Spe.
Feb - March 1996             2   Division Chief, Financial
Analyst
AppraisallNegotiation
App. (Dec 1995)              5   Lawyer Consultant,
Telecormmunications
Specialist, PSD Specialist,
Structural adjustment
Specialist, Financial Spe.
Neg. (May 1996)              5
Supervision
February 1997                 4   Private Sector Specialist,           S             S
Financial Sector Specialist,
Operations Officer
March 1997                    4   Team Leader, Operations             U              S
Officer, Economists
November 1997                 4   PSD Specialist, Telecom             U              S
specialists
April 1998                    4   PSD Specialist, Telecom             S              S
Specialist
November 1998                 4   PSD Specialist,                      S             S
Telecommunication Specialists
July 1999                     4   Team leader, Financial               S             S
Specialist, Telecom specialists
October 1999                  6   Team leader, Financial              S              S
Specialist, PSD Specialist,
Operations Officer
ICR
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  31                         53.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                       21                         46.4
Supervision                                168                        546.3
ICR                                         14                           58
Total                                      234                          704
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Li Sector Policies                       OH  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Physical                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
EI Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU* M  0 N  C NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
3 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS OS   OU   OHU
O Overall                                            OHS  S s O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u  O HU
O  Government implementation performance             O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   0 U   O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Aide-memoires and Back-to-Office reports
* Development Credit Agreement
* Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex
- 27 -



