Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6928-CM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
(REPORT NO. P-6928-CM)
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 8.8 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAY 22, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 10, 1996)
Currency Unit    =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1              =     CFAF 513.5
CFAF I million    -     USS1.947.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEAC                    Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BICIC                   Banque Intemationale pour le Commerce et l'lndustrie - Cameroun
BCD                     Banque Camerounaise de D1veloppement
CAA                     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAMAIR                  Cameroon Airlines
CAMBANK                 Cameroon Bank
CAMSHIP                 Cameroon Shipping Lines
CAMTAINER               Societd Nationale de Transport et de Transit du Cameroun
CAMSUCO                 Cameroon Sugar Company
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                     Cameroon Development Corporation
CFD                     Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CEPER                   Centre d'Edition pour l'Enseignement et la Recherche
CFA                     Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFAF                    Franc Communautt Financiere Africaine
CNCC                    Conseil National des Chargeurs du Cameroun
CNIC                    Chantier Naval et Industriel du Cameroun
CIMENCAM                Cimenteries du Cameroun
ERC                     Economic Recovery Credit
EU                      European Union
FNE                     Fonds National de l'Emploi
FOGAPE                  Fonds de Garantie et de Credits aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
FONADER                 Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FY                      Fiscal Year
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GOC                     Govemment of Cameroon
HEVECAM                 Socidtd de Developpement Hdvda Cameroun
IBRD                    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                     Intemational Development Association
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
MRESP                   Mission de Rehabilitation des Entreprises du Secteur Public et Parapublic
OHADA                   Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires
ONPC                    Office National des Ports du Cameroun
PE                      Public Enterprise
PAGE                    Projet d'Appui a Ia Gestion de l'Economie
PIP                     Public Investment Program
RNCF                    Rdgie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
SAC                     Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                     Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SCB-CL                  Societe Commerciale de Banque - Crddit Lyonnais
SCT                     Societd Camerounaise des Tabacs
SGBC                    Socidtd Generale de Banque du Cameroun
SISEP                   Systeme d'lnformation sur les Entreprises Publiques
SNEC                    Societd Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun
SNH                     Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures
SNI                     Socidte Nationale d'Investissement
SODECOTON               Socidtd de Ddveloppement du Coton du Cameroun
SOCAPALM                Socidte Camerounaise des Palmeraies
SONARA                  Societe Nationale de Raffinage
SONEL                   Socidtd Nationale d'Electricitd
SRC                     Socidtd de Recouvrement des Crdances du Cameroun
UDEAC                   Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A. DETAILED PROJECT .............................I
I - COUNTRY BACKGROUND    ..
II - PUBLIC - 'TERPRSE SECTOR                                       ..2
III - BANKING SECTOR                                          ..4
IV -   THE JUDICIARY SYSTEM ......................................................6
V -  THE GOVERNMENT'S NEW APPROACH TO REFORM                                   .         .          6
A. Public Enterprises                                   .6
A. I Privatization Program                               .6
A.2 Portfolio Management .10
A.3 Liquidation.11
B . Financial Sector .12
VI -  LESSONS LEARNED AND STRATEGY FOR IDA ASSISTANCE                              .       .       13
VII - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT                    ..15
VIII - BENEFITS AND RISKS                   ..16
SECTION B. PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION ............................................... 18
I - PROJECT COSTS                                            ..18
II - PROCUREMENT                                             ..18
A. Employment of Consultants .18
B. Procurement of Goods .19
III- DISBURSEMENTS                       ..20
IV - ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING                       ..20
SECTION C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .............................................    21
TABLES
Table 1. Companies to Be Privatized - Selected Financial Data (1993-1994) ........................................................ 7
Table 2. Person-month by Type of Technical Assistance and Activity .......................................................  16
Table 3. Estimated Project Costs .......................................................           18



-2 -
SCHEDULES
Schedule A. Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan ........................................                                                                                23
Schedule B. Procurement and Disbursements ........................................                                                                                            25
Schedule C. State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators ........................................                                                                                27
Schedule D. Privatization Implementation Action Plan ........................................                                                                                  34
Schedule E. Project Supervision Plan ........................................                                                                                                 42
Schedule F. Letter of Development Policy ........................................                                                                                              43
Schedule G. Monitoring Indicators and Expected Results ........................................                                                                               46



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A. DETAILED PROJECT
I - COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.    Cameroon is one of the richest countries in the region. It is endowed with abundant natural
resources and significant development potential. Until 1978, its economic growth averaged five percent per
year, based mainly on agricultural production and exports in which it had a strong comparative advantage.
The discovery of oil in 1978 gave a boost to the economy, resulting in annual growth rates of about seven
percent. By 1985, oil production accounted for 44 percent of revenues and 20 percent of GDP. Both
internal and external balances became substantially positive. As a result, Government spending tripled in
real terms over the periods and, by 1986, it accounted for 23 percent of GDP. Its participation in the
economy increased significantly through a growing number of state-owned enterprises in all sectors of the
economy.
2.    In 1985, three major shocks exposed weaknesses in economic policies and structure. First, the
sudden drop in the prices of oil, coffee, and cocoa led to a 60 percent deterioration in the external terms of
trade; second, the long-te Pm slide in oil production was not compensated by the growth of other exports; and
finally, due to the depreciation of the dollar and the Nigerian Naira, the real exchange rate appreciated by 54
percent between 1986 a d 1988, greatly weakening Cameroon's competitiveness. By 1993, the overall
economic situation had i;Sbstantially deteriorated. On average, GDP fell annually by six percent between
1986 and 1993. Econom:c decline was accompanied by increased poverty, especially among farmers. The
middle class, once among the most developed in Sub-Saharan Africa, shrank in numbers.
3.    To address this deteriorating trend, the Government launched an economic reform  program
supported by an IMF Stand-by Agreement and by a Structural Adjustment Loan from the Bank in 1988.
This program was aimed at counteracting the currency overvaluation and reestablishing sustainable internal
and external balances. Although there was progress in some areas, such as reducing price controls and
rationalizing the incentive framework, the reforms failed to resolve the fundamental structural problems in
the absence of exchange rate adjustments and strong commitment by the Government. Instead, budget
deficits grew and arrears, both on internal and external debt, increased as revenues declined faster than
expenditures. Investment and savings started to decline in 1989 mirroring the deterioration of economic



-2 -
policy and management. The resulting sharp decline in incomes raised discontent among people and fueled
political unrest which lasted for two years.
4.    In January 1994, along with other CFAF countries, Cameroon devalued its currency by 50 percent
and became an IDA Country. This monetary adjustment was part of a new economic recovery program
supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund aiming at: (a) producing a budgetary
surplus; (b) shifting spending to productive sectors; (c) holding inflation to five percent a year; and (d)
achieving a five percent growth per annum. It was designed to secure quick gains in competitiveness from
the devaluation while setting the ground for more fundamental reforms such as: (i) civil service reform; (ii)
revision of Government's procurement code; (iii) reform of the forestry code and of regulations applicable
to the oil sector; and (iv) privatization of state-owned enterprises. At the same time, jointly with its partners
in the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), Cameroon began implementing a far
reaching trade and tariff reform, including: a common tariff based on four rates ranging from five percent to
30 percent; an inter-union preferential tariff at 20 percent of the normal rate; and a simplified turn-over tax
and suppression of customs taxes including the taxe unique. In addition, most non-tariff barriers were
abolished. As a result of these reforms, Cameroon's economy has become one of the most open among all
CFA countries.
5.    Despite the immediate positive impact of the devaluation and the recovery of coffee prices, which
led to a 12 percent increase in volume of non-oil exports in 1994, the overall economic situation did not
improve due to: (a) poor budgetary performance, linked to reduced customs receipts; (b) a sharp increase in
internal debt, to CFAF 2.3 trillion, or 49 percent of GDP, by the end of 1995; and (c) failure to restructure
the financial sector. As a result, the first review under the Stand-by agreement could not be completed,
disbursements were suspended and a shadow program for FY95 was put in place.
6.    Following the reorganization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the appointment of a new
minister in July 1994, budgetary performance improved substantially. Government revenues increased by
55 percent in FY95, while expenditures declined from 20 percent of GDP in the early 1990s to 9 percent of
GDP in FY95. The wage bill declined from 64 percent of revenues in FY93 to 36 percent in FY95.
7.    Improved budgetary performance led to the signature of a new Stand-By Agreement between the
IMF and the Government in September 1995 and to the approval of a US$150 million Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC II) by the World Bank on February 8, 1996. The main objective of SAC II is to pursue reforms
in three key areas: (a) reform of the tax system and improvements in budgetary performnance; (b)
restructuring of the financial sector, and (c) settle an internal debt. A follow up adjustment operation is
under preparation to support (i) improvement in the business environment for private sector development
and (ii) an acceleration of the privatization program.
II - PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
8.    Background. As in most sub-Saharan African countries, state-owned enterprises were first created
in Cameroon at the time of independence, as a result of the transfer of basic public utilities and services
previously managed by the colonial power. This movement gained momentum during the 1970s, when
nearly half of the public enterprises were created as a result of Govermnent's policy of substituting for the
private sector, considered at the time inefficient and incapable of financing the investments needed for
accelerated growth. With the economic boom resulting from the oil exports in the late 1970s, expansion of
the public enterprise sector entered a third stage. The cash surplus recorded by a number of public



- 3 -
enterprises, such as the National Petroleum Company (SNH), the National Social Security Fund (CNPS), the
National Commodities Marketing Board (ONCPB), and the National Investment Company (SNI), the
holding created by the Government to manage Government's participation, led to a new increase in the role
of the public sector.
9.     As a result of this policy, more than 200 public enterprises, of which 80 were owned by SNI, were
operating in the late 1980s; they were scattered in all sectors of the economy, although they were especially
dominant in the oil secor, agro-industry, the tourist and hotel business, and transportation sector, not to
mention the major basic public utilities, i.e., water, electricity, and telecommunications. It is estimated that
in the early 1990s, public enterprises contributed about 20 percent of the gross domestic product, nearly 60
percent of the industrial sector's gross domestic product, and 21 percent of gross public investment. In
addition, direct and indirect Government subsidies, including tax exemptions, were estimated at about four
percent of GDP, non budgetary financing by SNH excluded.
10.   Reform Program. In 1986, following the deterioration of the macro-economic situation and the
sharp decline in budgetary revenues, the Government launched an economic reform program with special
emphasis on public enterprise restructuring. One of the priority objectives was to alleviate the budgetary
burden generated by public enterprises, the losses of which were estimated at CFAF 33 billion, on June 30,
1986, despite CFAF 69 billion in Government direct subsidies. This rehabilitation program, based on an in-
depth analysis of 75 public enterprises, resulted in a new classification of the public enterprises in two
groups, namely those that would be liquidated -- 59 enterprises outside the financial sector-and those that
would remain state-owned --120, including 25 priority enterprises to be rehabilitated under performance
contracts. Tnis first step was to be accompanied by the adoption of a new institutional framework to bring
public enterprises' operating procedures closer to those prevalent in the private sector and to strengthen
Government's financial supervision. In addition, in 1990, the Government issued a decree listing 15
enterprises to be privatized. This program was to be implemented by a new Government Agency, the Public
Enterprise Rehabilitation Mission (MRESP), attached to the Presidency. The various components of this
rehabilitation and privatization program were part of the Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3089-CM)
approved by the Bank in 1989, and supported by a technical assistance project (PAGE, Projet d'Appui a la
Gestion de l'Economie, Ln. 3110-CM).
11.    Overall Situation in 1994. Based on the FY94 financial statements available (59 enterprises, or
about 60 percent of the total number) that are summarized in Schedule C, implementation of this reform
program proved to be a difficult task, and very limited progress was achieved. Financial institutions and
the petroleum company (SNH) excluded, these enterprises account for about 10 percent of the country's
GDP and total assets amount to CFAF 1950 billion (about US$4 billion), or 60 percent of GDP. Losses
represented about 10 percent of total revenues when taking fully into account the consequences of the 1994
devaluation, or 3 percent otherwise. Total employment in these enterprises accounted for about 30 percent
of the civil service and 14 percent of the formal private sector. Due to the limited number of financial
statements available, it can be assumed that the PEs' overall contribution to GDP is still around 15 percent
at least. A comparative analysis based on a sample of 34 PEs shows that between 1989 and 1993 all
enterprises in which the State was the majority shareholder accumulated losses, with the exception of three
monopolies: (a) Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SONEL); (b) Cimenteries du Cameroun (CIMENCAM);
and Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures (SNH). Finally, as a result of these losses, PEs have built-up a
large domestic debt amounting to CFAF 517 billion (about US$1 billion) by end 1994.
12.   Performance Contracts.  Performance contracts signed with the 25 largest public enterprises in
the transportation, agriculture, water, and electricity sectors, showed disappointing results. Total financing
granted by the Government to these enterprises for the 1989-92 period amounted to CFAF 460 billion



(about US$2 billion) in the form of operating subsidies, capital increases, assumption of debt, and claims
dropped. Such financing was partly inevitable, given that it only reflected the past losses of these enterprises
and their inability to face debt servicing due to poor efficiency of past investments. However, it did not
lead to a significant, overall improvement in the performnance of these enterprises. Pre-subsidy operating
losses were marginally reduced -- from CFAF -67.8 billion in 1989 to CFAF -52.2 billion in 1992-- while
overall productivity remained more or less the same. Furthermore, despite an average 18 percent staff cut,
the wage bill remained at apprcximately the same level. With the exception of the electricity company, the
largest agro-industries (Hevecam, CDC and Sodecoton) and the national railways company, the productivity
of which has substantially increased, overall PE performance did not improve. The performance contracts
essentially transferred debt from public enterprises to the central government without benefiting creditors,
since the central government was unable to meet its obligations, because of growing financial problems.
13.    Financial Supervision. Government was unable to effectively implement financial supervision of
public enterprises due to the absence of an institutional framework with the exception of PEs under
performance contract. The General Statute for Public Enterprises that was scheduled to be approved under
the 1989 adjustment operation was never finalized. Although considerable efforts were devoted to setting
up a data base, the information system on public enterprises (SISEP), the data collected on a regular basis,
covered only 17 enterprises.
14.    Privatization. Between 1990 and 1994, out of the fifteen enterprises to be privatized listed in
Decree 90/1423 dated October 3, 1990, five were sold (one of them only partially), three were liquidated,
five divestitures were unsuccessful, and two enterprises were withdrawn from the list to be privatized.
While sales totaled CFAF 3.8 billion, the State was still left with liabilities of around CFAF 10 billion. In
addition to the small size of the enterprises sold and the questionable nature of the list, the process was
notoriously slow, given the cumbersome privatization framework. Privatization procedures and structures
were subject to more than 6 laws and regulations drafted between 1988 and 1994. Privatization strategies
formulated for each enterprise by the Technical Committee had to be submitted for approval to: (a) an
Interministerial Committee composed of seven ministers; (b) the Prime Minister; (c) the General Secretary
at the Presidency; and (d) finally the President himself. The same process applied to the final selection of
buyers. As a result, the numerous authorizations required at different stages of divestiture and the large
number of participants in the process with sometimes contradictory objectives, all created obstacles to the
process and delayed the transactions. This heavily bureaucratic process was a reflection of the absence of a
clear strategy for divestiture and of the lack of consensus among all the actors. Finally, the evaluation
process, based primarily on asset valuation, led to unrealistic estimates and to the rejection of bids submitted
by operators. Moreover, differences in the assessments made by the Government and SNI, a shareholder in
these enterprises, blocked the process. As a result, the divestiture process was delayed while the losses of
companies continued to grow.
15.    Liquidations. Out of the 59 enterprises liquidated in 1989-1990, 33 were companies owned by SNI
and 26 were owned by the State. At the end of 1994, 55 of these 59 liquidations were still ongoing. For the
26 enterprises whose liquidation was supervised by the Technical Committee, audits performed on nine of
them showed that basic asset protection procedures were not being observed and that the liquidation process
lacked transparency. Also, some of the largest liquidations, especially the liquidation of the National
Commodities Marketing Board (ONCPB), escaped any control.
III - BANKING SECTOR
16.    The financial sector in Caneroon is the largest and the most diversified of the Central Africa States
zone. It is composed of: (a) eight commercial banks; (b) eight non bank financial institutions; (c) a postal



- 5 -
saving bank; (d) sixteen insurance companies and a reinsurance company; (e) a housing bank; (f) a social
security institution; (g) a number of mutualistic savings and loan cooperatives; and (h) a recovery agency.
A Central Bank (Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale, BEAC) is shared with five other countries. A
central bank auction money market was launched in July 1994. Cameroon does not yet have a bond or
equity market.
17.   Commercial banks constitute the largest part -- 64 percent -- of the financial sector with total assets
of CFAF 795 billion by end-September 1995. Commercial banks employ more than 2,200 people and have
a network of about 104 branches throughout the country. Despite this high number of banks, the sector is
dominated by three institutions (Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (BICIC); Societe
Camerounaise de Banque - Credit Lyonnais (SCB-CL); and Societe Generale de Banque (SGBC), the assets
of which represent more than 60 percent of total bank assets. The assets of the National Pension Fund
(CNPS) and the insurance companies amount respectively to 14 and 12 percent total financial institutions
assets and they employ 4,300 workers.
18.   Past Restructuring Efforts.  Since the middle of the 1980s, the financial sector has faced
increasing difficulties due to the sharp decline in the economy which has resulted in a constant deterioration
of its portfolio. As a result of this deteriorating trend, M2 to GDP decreased to 17 percent in 1990,
compared to an average of 22 percent in Sub-Saharan African countries. In 1988, audits of most of the
banking institutions were conducted and the Government decided to restructure the sector. Three banks,
Banque Camerounaise de D6veloppement (BCD), Cameroon-Bank (Cambank) and Banque Paribas-
Cameroun and one fund, Fonds de Developpement Rural (FONADER) were liquidated. The operations of
another fund, Fonds d'Aide et de Garantie et de Credits aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (FOGAPE)
were brought to a stop, while five other banks were restructured and the non-performing assets transferred to
the Loan Recovery Agency (SRC) created in 1989.
19.   Limited Achievements.  On the whole, only limited results were achieved due to: (a) the poor
support provided by the judiciary to the recovery of bad loans; (b) continued decline in economic activity;
and (c) large public deficits and arrears. Over the past five years, contraction of the banking sector has been
severe. Total bank credit declined by 58 percent between 1989 and 1993, while deposits dropped by 35
percent. Most banks are still burdened with large non-performing portfolios. In particular, Government has
contracted large debts -- CFAF 246 billion by end 1994 -- of which the quasi-totality is in arrears. A part of
this is PE debt taken over by Government over the past five years. The ratio of provisions to doubtful loans
is low and the net worth of some banks is negative and, as a whole, banks' capital inadequacy was
estimated to be around CFAF 101 billion by end-1994.
20.   Overall, banks have high operating costs and, despite being high by international standards (about
seven percentage points), margins are insufficient to ensure adequate provisioning given the large size of
the non-operating portfolio. Because of these high margins, after-tax bank lending rates are in the order of
18-20 percent. Cameroon is thus faced with a paradoxical situation where margins are insufficient to ensure
the long-term profitability of banks, while at the same time interest rates and particularly real rates are so
high that they discourage borrowing by credit worthy customers.
21.   The Loan Recovery Agency (Societe de Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun, SRC). It
was established in 1989 to receive the loan portfolio of liquidated banks and non-performing credits from
restructured banks. Out of the CFAF 609 billion in assets (including large suspense accounts) it received, it
has barely recovered CFAF 20 billion in cash and about CFAF 60 billion through compensation during its
first three years of operation. It has been able, nonetheless, to carry out limited repayment of small private
depositors. Several factors explain its poor performance: (a) an ill-defined mandate; (b) incomplete files;



- 6 -
(c) high operating costs; and (d) a judiciary apparatus-that does not provide the support SRC needs. In June
1994, hower--er, SRC received the "privilege du tresor" which enables it to freeze debtors' bank accounts
without a court order and to seize properties with the exception, however, of real estate.
22.    SRC's main source of revenue is a commission of seven percent on cash recoveries, recently
increased to 15 percent, which is still insufficient to cover its operating costs. Over the last three years,
cumulative losses have amounted to CFAF 623 million, or 120 percent of SRC's equity base.
IV - THE JUDICIARY SYSTEM
23.   The judiciary system is not providing the needed support to financial institutions in enforcing
financial contracts and facilitating the recovery of bad debts. There are problems at three levels: (a) the
texts themselves; (b) the administration of justice; and (c) the lack of means and facilities.
24.   Problems with texts can be found with: (a) the accelerated recovery procedures that include the
possibility of opposition through the "contredit" thereby slowing down the recovery process; (b) the
"privilege du tr6sor"; and (c) the "saisie conservatoire." Texts should be revised and harmonized with the
recently introduced regional approach to business law (OHADA - Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du
Droit des Affaires).
25.   Problems with the administration of justice are manifold.  Judgments are often rendered in
contradiction to the law; parties adopt dilatory measures; delays in dealing with cases are long (e.g., there
are 3,000 cases pending at the Supreme Court); the Office of the Clerk of the Court operates in a very
rudimentary fashion and is the source of substantial delays; the bailiff system operates haphazardly and
there is much interference with the work of bailiffs; registering a mortgage is a difficult proposition.
26.   Several of the above-mentioned problems are attributable to the small budget on which the judiciary
operates. Salaries are very low. Judges' compensation ranges from CFAF 80,000 to CFAF 110,000 per
month, following the 1993 wage cuts and have not yet been restored to their previous levels contrary to
some other civil servants salaries. The budget of the Ministry of Justice was cut from CFAF 5 billion in
1993 to CFAF 2 billion in 1994. The annual administrative budgets of some courthouses run as low as
CFAF 100,000 for the purchase of all equipment and supplies. Litigating parties must supply paper and
pencils to the judge. Buildings are literally in ruins. In addition, due to a lack of financial means,
publication of the Official Gazette was suspended in 1989, and the judgments of the Supreme Court and the
Appeals Courts have not been published since the beginning of the 1980s. As a result, most of the judges
are not informed of jurisprudence.  Similarly, the legal profession, not to mention the public, operates
within a framework of minimal information.
V - THE GOVERNMENT'S NEW APPROACH TO REFORM
A. Public Enterprises
A.1 Privatization Program
27.   Recent Developments. In light of the very limited results achieved in the PE sector over the past
five years and the devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994, the Government has revised its economic
reform strategy and decided to focus on privatization, instead of rehabilitation, as part of a global process to
further liberalize the economy. The Government's Letter of Development Policy, adopted in June 1994 in
the context of the Economic Recovery Credit financed by the Bank, was aimed at achieving progressively



- 7 -
partial or full privatization of all industrial and commercial PEs, although with limitations with regard to the
public utilities, while further liberalizing the economy.
28.    In addition to the measures contained in the policy statement issued by the Government in June
1994, a list of 15 additional enterprises to be privatized was published in Decree No. 94-125 dated July 14,
1994. This list included: (a) the largest enterprises in the transportation sector, CAMSHIP/CAMTAINER
(shipping company), Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR, National airlines), REGIFERCAM (railway company),
and the national public transportation company (SOTUC); (b) the major agro-industries: HEVECAM
(rubber company), SODECOTON (cotton development company), SOCAPALM (palm oil), Cameroon
Development Company (CDC, tea, palm oil, rubber, bananas), Swiss Farm Palm Plantation Company and
the Coastal Refinery (palm oil), Cameroonian Tobacco Company (tobacco growing and processing); and (c)
three other smaller enterprises. The following table gives selected information on some of these companies
for which financial information is available and that represent 55 percent of the assets of the sector (SNH
and SONARA excluded).
Table 1. Companies to Be Privatized - Selected Financial Data (1993-19941)
(In billions of CFA Francs)
Company        Total      Turnover    Value Added  Net Profit   Staff
l _____________ 1 Assets                               or Loss
CAMAIR              22.3           34.3         10.1       -4.5   1,560
CAMSHIP             25.4           25.1          2.9        0.2     276
SOTUC               13.7            1.7          0.9      -13.9     990
REGIFERCAM         167.3           24.1         15.0        0.9   3,200
CDC                 69.7           29.7         16.1       -0.5  13,500
SODECOTON           59.5           55.3         13.2        8.1   2,301
HEVECAM             45.1            9.0          5.8        1.1   4,236
SOCAPALM            26.2           11.6          6.1      -16.1   4,072
SCT                  0.8            0.3         0.05       -1.6    N.A.
SONEL              323.6           57.6         43.6        3.1    N.A.
SNEC               203.8           13.1          7.5       -5.0   2,176
INTELCAM           145.9           12.5          9.1      -13.7     450
Total             1103.3          274.3       130.35      -41.9  32,761
29.   In June 1995, this new approach was confirmed by the Head of State who had decided to accelerate
the privatization program and to expand its scope by including the main public utilities, i.e., water,
electricity, and telecommunications. Based on the Government's action plan presented during negotiations
of the on-going SAC at least 18 enterprises should be privatized in the course of the next two years, and
other companies might also be put up for sale, depending on how the program is progressing. This is an on-
going process that will be reviewed annually to define the targets to be met the following year. (Jnder the
Stand-by Agreement signed with the International Monetary Fund, the Government also committed itself to
raise CFAF 30 billion from the privatizations prior to June 30, 1996. Finally, the Development Policy
'/ The financial indicators provided above do not reflect accurately the real impact of devaluation for various reasons:
(a) in 3ome cases (Intelcam) the losses are overestimated due to the fact that the consequences of the devaluation on
foreign long-term debt are fully charged in 1994, contrary to standard accounting practices, and (b) in other cases such
as CDC, the information is based on pre-devaluation information (1993 balance sheet).



- 8 -
Letter attached to the on-going SAC, reaffirms the key role of privatization as part of the country's medium-
term development plan.
30.    To achieve these goals and restore the credibility of the privatization program which has been
heavily undermined by past sluggishness, the Government is currently discussing a new privatization
institutional framework.  A first step was taken by the Government in January 1996 when it split the
technical commission into two different units: the Privatization Technical Commission and the
Rehabilitation Technical Commission. This first step will allow restructuring and strengthening the
Privatization Unit and avoid the previous confusion between two different missions: portfolio management
and privatization. However, additional changes are needed to streamline the privatization decision making
process and reduce the numerous approvals needed. During the negotiations of the on-going SAC, the
Government agreed to review the current institutional framework and address the remaining issues. The
new framework should be approved and implemented at the latest by end-1996; meanwhile, to ensure the
transparency and equity of coming sales, the Government has decided that the following principles would
apply: (a) bids would be opened in public; and (b) selection criteria would be published. Given the various
privatization schemes that will be used, guidelines governing public openings of bids will be specified in the
technical specifications for bids that will be issued for each privatization.
31.    The Government, however, is well aware that to be successful when implementing this program, it
needs to resolve the following issues: (a) changing the present poor image of the privatization process; (b)
attracting foreign investors; (c) ensuring broad participation of the Cameroonian private sector and of the
public at large; (d) developing a competitive environment and eliminating all direct and indirect subsidies to
PEs prior to their privatization and; (e) coping with the social costs of divestiture.
32.    Changing the Poor Image of the Privatization Process. The privatization process has, so far, been
characterized by sluggishness and a lack of equity and transparency. Whatever efforts have been made to
accelerate the process (six privatizations were brought to an effective conclusion in FY95), both private
operators and the population at large have distrusted the privatization program in the past. To address this
and to ensure broader local participation, the Government is planning to launch a wide-ranging public
relations campaign to present its program, the schedule of the operations and the new procedures that will be
used; among other themes, this campaign will also present some of the past successful privatizations such as
the sale of the Banana Marketing Board. The Government intends also to proceed more expeditiously; the
lists of enterprises to be privatized will not be published until some preparatory work has been completed,
therefore reducing the time required for the sale itself. Privatization decrees will be published annually,
based on the progress of the program, so that the transactions can be completed within no more than one
year, with the exception of the large public utilities, the privatization of which might take more time.
33.    Attracting Foreign Investors. The crisis in the financial sector has had a major impact on savings
and investment in the country. Following the near-bankruptcy of many banks and financial institutions, it is
estimated that an additional CFAF 100 billion worth of deposits will be frozen. This situation has
considerably reduced private savings in Cameroon and its investment capacity. In addition, the Government
has confirmed its intention to exclude from the privatization process all the defaulters that will not have
regularized their situation vis-A-vis the SRC. Finally, the banking sector is no longer in a position to take
full responsibility for financing the economy, as is evident from the 58 percent decline in lending between
1989 and 1993. This situation will substantially constrict the country's growth and the privatization
program, if it is not offset by a large in-flow of foreign capital. To succeed in this objective, the
Government will: (a) launch an information campaign in a limited number of well targeted countries to
describe its program; (b) design market-driven privatization strategies with the support of investment banks
with incentives built into their contracts; (c) establish realistic targets in terms of financial evaluation of the



- 9 -
companies put on the market; and (d) given the weaknesses of Cameroon's legal and judicial system, use
arbitration mechanisms to solve litigation that might happen with the objective of mitigating the high
country risk that could adversely affect some transactions.
34.   Increasing National Participation in the Privatization Process. Unlike many sub-Saharan African
countries, Cameroon has a dynamic and vibrant private sector with a long tradition in entrepreneurship. The
privatization program must, therefore, provide enough room for the nationals, and be supported by financial
mechanism to be created by the Government to allow participation of small shareholders, growers and
workers. To address this issue, the Government has already taken the following preliminary steps: (a)
request, when possible, foreign investors to warehouse ("faire le portage") a limited number of shares; and
(b) associaec the donors and IFC with these actions. These mechanisms, however, will be limited in scope,
and for this heason the Government is planning to study alternative mechanisms, such as the creation of a
trust fund or other tools that might be adequate. The feasibility study should be completed before October
1996 and its results will be presented to other donors. The functions of such a fund could also be expanded
later to include brokerage operations under the new regulations being prepared by BEAC.
35.    Developing a Competitive Environment. Although the Government has substantially liberalized
the economy over the past few years .ad it is one of the most open in the CFA zone and in sub-Saharan
Africa, many non-tariff barriers to entry still exist in various sectors where public enterprises operate, i.e.,
reinsurance, advertising, maritime transport. Under the privatization program, the Government has agreed
to eliminate these captive markets so that an efficient and competitive environment can be developed. As
part of the privatization of the major public utilities, such as water, electricity, or telecommunications, the
Government is also planning to open the market to competition whenever possible, to fix time limits on
monopolies, if any, and to set up a regulatory framework and effective appeals' bodies, so that any abuse
can be eliminated.
36.   In addition to improving the competitive environment of public enterprises and as short-term
measures to complement the privatization program, there is a need a to review some key elements of the
business environment to facilitate the divestiture program and support investment. To achieve these
objectives the Governments intends to: (a) adopt a competition law; (b) review some elements of the
incentive system, especially the investment code and an industrial free trade zone; and (c) review some
sectoral regulations such as the mining code and the energy framework to improve efficiency and
transparency.
37.    Social Impact of Privatization.  The Government is aware of the social implications of
privatization, in terms of loss of both employment and basic public services, such as health, education, and
infrastructure, that are provided by public enterprises in rural areas.
38.    Regarding the public services provided by public enterprises, studies conducted recently on the
agro-industrial sector have shown that: (a) although relatively large, expenditures for the above services do
not exceed five to six percent of production costs; (b) in most cases, financing of these expenditures is
neither mandatory nor imposed by the Government as shareholder; (c) comparisons with similar private
companies show that the latter generally provide the same kind of services as a way to attract and retain the
staff they need. However, the Government wants to ensure that throughout the privatization process, there
will be a mechanism in place to allow for basic social services to be continued without burdening the new
operators. In this regard, the Government is developing a policy of setting up partnership structures for
which provincial administrations and local associations may take over ownership and management. The
Government will also open these new entities to other people than those employed by the enterprises. They
would be financed on a cost-sharing basis, and their management would be accountable so that better



- 10 -
efficiency and reduced costs should be attained. The creation of independent organizations for education
and health will also provide the operators with guarantees that they will be able to limit their financial
participation to their workers, while at the same time, making sure that these services will still be provided.
39.    Redundancy Issues. Despite past efforts to regain competitiveness and financial sustainability,
which have resulted in an 18 percent staff reduction for the 25 enterprises under performance contract in the
early nineties, the Government is aware that, in some cases, the privatization process will entail sizable staff
cuts which cannot be avoided if the company is to remain competitive. However, the situation will vary
largely from one enterprise to another, and there has been no overall assessment of the situation, except for
the five major enterprises in the transport sector. For these enterprises, staff cuts have been estimated at
around 3,300, of which 1,600 for SOTUC which was liquidated in January 1995. In the telecommunications
and water sectors, overstaffing is also estimated to be high. On the other hand, staff downsizing in the agro-
industrial sector should be limited, especially in the case of the four largest enterprises that will be
privatized in 1996, since: (a) social plans have already been implemented under performance contracts; and
(b) the involvement of foreign operators in the capital or management of these enterprises has reduced the
risks of overstaffing. In addition, past experience with the privatization of the Banana Marketing Board has
shown that, in some cases, production gains were so great that major staff cuts were not needed.
40.    As part of the privatization program, private operators will be free to further downsize the staff of
the enterprises that they have purchased. However, in devising privatization strategies and in selecting
operators, Government will include criteria to make sure that employment is sufficiently taken into
consideration.  Downsizing will be governed by the dispositions of the labor code and by-laws of the
company. To ensure timely severance payments, which was not the case in the past, the Government will
conduct an annual assessment which will be based on the privatization schedule and will allow for these
costs to be included in the Tableau des Operations Financieres de l'Etat (TOFE). Bilateral and multilateral
donors, such as Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) and the European Union (EU), have agreed to
finance part of these costs as in the past and will continue in the future.
A.2 Portfolio Management
41.     The Government is aware that previous PE restructuring programs have proved to be relatively
ineffective and that privatization is the best way to ensure financial sustainability of these enterprises.
However, full privatization of the PE sector will take some time and can only proceed in stages. In this
light, the Government intends to strengthen financial supervision and to impose hard budgetary constraints
on the PEs that will not be privatized immediately. With the adoption of the new General Statute for Public
Enterprises in August 1995, the legal foundations for such actions have been established.
42.    General Statute For Public Enterprises.  This new law addresses two different issues: the
operating rules of PEs and their supervision by Government; and the dispositions regarding liquidation of
PEs. This law introduces three categories of enterprises: (a) public enterprises with an administrative
vocation which are involved in non-commercial affairs and are branches of the central Government; (b)
state-owned companies, which are industrial or commercial corporations in which the central Government
and/or other public agencies own 100 percent of the equity; and (c) semi-public enterprises, which are
companies held jointly by public agencies and the private sector. The basic principles contained in this
statute are as follows: (i) companies other than those in the first category are subject to corporate law,
except for specific arrangements such as the designation of the Board of Directors; (ii) the statutory organs,
such as the Board of Directors and shareholders' meetings, are sovereign bodies, and the Government, as
shareholder, intervenes exclusively through these channels; (iii) a priori approval by technical ministries is
eliminated; (iv) dispositions regarding financial reporting are reinforced; (v) supervision is centralized in the



- 11 -
Ministry of Finance; and (vi) semi-public enterprises are treated as private companies exclusively subject to
corporate law, even if the private sector is a minority shareholder.
43.    Financial Supervision. On the basis of these provisions, the Ministry of Economy and Finance will
put in place mechanisms to ensure an effective financial supervision of the public enterprises. The Public
Enterprise Information System [SISEP] will be reinforced and should be fully operational by June 30, 1996,
for the 17 current core enterprises. Based on its privatization strategy, the Government will expand SISEP's
simplified mechanisms to include the major enterprises that are to remain in the State's portfolio in the
medium term. Regarding the companies that do not produce financial statements, the Government will
establish a list of those enterprises by June 31, 1996, at the latest. A specific action plan will be determined for
each of these enterprises, to bring them into line with the regulations. These action plans will also assess the
sustainability of the enterprises, especially those whose losses exceed 50 percent of equity. This whole
process will be completed by 31 December, 1997.
44.    Based on thc-- new mechanisms, the Minister of Economy and Finance will enforce strict budgetary
discipline on PEs. Achievements will be evaluated on annual basis and will concern: (a) the aggregate
financial performance of PEs; (b) direct subsidies granted by the Central Government; (b) indirect subsidies,
such as debt written-off or taken over by the Government, (c) loan repayments; (d) tax arrears and taxes
paid; (e) arrears due to CNPS and to the water, electricity, and telecommunications companies; and (f) the
situation of public enterprises vis-a-vis the banking sector, and specially outstanding loans, including any
arrears. Finally, this management information system will also make it possible to: (i) monitor domestic
debt and prevent building-up new arrears once the cross debt is settled in 1996 and (ii) evaluate the cost of
PEs at both the micro and macro economic levels. Such assessments will help fine-tune the divestiture
priorities and support the public information campaign by presenting the cost to the population of not
privatizing. The first report will be completed by end-1996.
A.3 Liquidation
45.    As indicated above, the general statute for PEs also defines standard rules for PE liquidation that
replace the various procedures currently in use. In addition, it introduces a warning system, i.e., when the
losses of an enterprise exceed 50 percent of its equity, it must be liquidated unless it is restructured. Steps
have also been taken to protect assets and provide effective protection for private creditors. Since many
privatizations entail prior liquidation, specific provisions have been incorporated to shelter buyers from
lawsuits having to do with either the tax debts or corporate obligations of the former enterprise.
46.    Since this legislation will take effect immediately, the Government will rely on this new framework
to complete the on-going liquidations of the 26 enterprises that are supervised by the Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Mission and carry out all future operations transparently. The Government will ensure that
these rules are enforced and that all the liquidations that were ongoing by end 1994 will be completed by
June 30, 1997, at the latest. For future liquidations, such as those falling within the provisions of Article 68
of the General Statute for Public Enterprises, the Government will appoint expert liquidators from the
private sector to manage the process under Government supervision. The objective is for every liquidation
to be completed within 18 months. To achieve this objective in the case of non commercial PEs
(Etablissements Publics a Caractere Administratij), the Government will have to ensure availability of
funds to finance severance payment costs.



- 12-
B. Financial Sector
47.    A strong financial sector is an essential component of the Government's efforts to encourage private
sector development and elicit a supply response following the devaluation. This program forms part of the
measures supported by the on-going SAC and includes: (a) settlement of domestic public debt and arrears;
(b) improvement of the regulatory framework and strengthening the supervision of the financial sector; (c)
restructuring of the banking and insurance sectors; (d) reorganization of SRC; and (e) preliminary measures
to improve the judiciary with respect to litigation in the area of the financial sector. The specific sub-sector-
reforms that will be supported by the present project are described below.
48.    Banking Sector Reform. A transparent plan to restructure four banks and liquidate another is
being implemented by the Government with the objective of achieving a reduced, but sustainable, banking
sector. The principles governing the proposals are that all institutions involved in restructuring should be
the subject of independent audits (already completed); Government should not issue additional debt to cover
shortfalls in assets; and shareholders (public and private) should bear their share of past losses.
Restructured banks will be recapitalized from private sources, and the Government will withdraw from the
sector, holding only minor shareholdings, when necessary, as a stop-gap or bridging measure (which cannot
exceed 20 percent of share capital in any case). The overall plan is designed to minimize social and
economic costs, especiallY for small depositors (whose deposits would be protected).
49.    Agreements have already been signed with foreign investors to recapitalize two banks.  The
Government will keep minority participation in one of these banks on a temporary basis until other private
investors can be found. Non-performing assets will be fully provisioned, and an active recovery policy
pursued by the bank (no assets transferred to SRC). Operating expenses will be reduced through lay-offs
and branch closings. The other two banks will first be allowed to transfer non-performing assets and an
equivalent amount of liabilities (including deposits) to the loan recovery agency (SRC). In this regard, all
depositors will receive equal treatment with all deposits over a certain threshold transferred to SRC. Small
depositors will be thereby protected. The banks will then be liquidated or merged into new entities that
would be taken over by new foreign and/or Cameroonian banking partners and investors. Care will be taken
to limit the burden of Government debt. Simulations of financial projections will check on the long-term
viability of the new entities. To prevent an immediate run on these new entities, their demand deposits may
have to be transformed into time deposits with staggered maturities. If private banking investors cannot be
found within a reasonable time frame, the banks will be recapitalized by non-bank investors and
performance-based management contracts will be signed with banks, with a reputation for good financial
standing and high-quality management.
50.    The cost of this program is substantial, but far less than the cost of not restructuring. Overall, about
1,300 bank employees would become redundant. The cost to Government is CFAF 20 billion and to private
shareholders CFAF 28 billion, in terms of loss of equity and recapitalization. Under the program, public
and private deposits totaling a massive CFAF 100 billion will be frozen at the SRC, until recoveries are
made. Measures will be taken to avoid such deposit losses in the future. This amount is to be compared to a
potential total loss of deposits of CFAF 300 billion without restructuring. Such a loss of deposits might well
provoke a general banking sector crisis, which would in turn deprive many exporters, manufacturers and
merchants of their main source of funds. Thus the restructuring is clearly advantageous in net terms to the
private sector, which considers lack of credit and poor financial intermediation to be leading constraints to
growth.



- 13 -
51.   Loan Recovery. SRC has been set up as a liquidation unit rather than a recovery agency, with the
proceeds of recoveries in each liquidation distributed among the claimants according to legal liquidation
rules. Its mandate is ill-defined, its operating costs are excessive and it has suffered from political
interference and a lack of judicial support, which has compromised its effectiveness in repossessing assets.
The Government has prepared an action plan to make it more effective. It will be restructured, downsized,
and its priorities will be better defined with quantitative targets (US$15 million by end June 1996,
US$18 million plus 7 percent of new portfolio by end June 1997). An expatriate loan recovery specialist
will be hired to support implementation of this plan. SRC will use the privilege of the Treasury granted to it
in 1994 more effectively as a powerful instrument to enable it to recover assets with the same seniority
rights as the Treasury. The portfolio to be recovered will be ranked on the basis of agreed criteria, including
age, size and the probability of recovery.
52.   Recovery efforts will concentrate on recently transferred loans from the current restructuring
exercise, on a few large debtors and on high-profile individuals with the means to repay their debt. The
latter, whose arrears total CFAF 48 billion, will be required to regularize their payments immediately. The
composition of SRC's Board of Directors will be modified, through an amendment to its by-laws, to include
representatives from groups with a large stake in the recovcries who will have at least one third of the votes.
The General Manager will no longer be appointed by decree. He will be appointed by the SRC's Board with
a two-thirds majority. The registry of bank borrowers in the Central Bank will also serve as registry of
delinquent borrowers. Delinquent borrowers will be prohibited from borrowing from any bank, and from
participating in the privatization of public enterprises and in bids for Government purchases of goods and
services.
53.   Judiciary. Currently, the legal framework and the judicial system fail to support the enforcement
of financial contracts and the recovery of bad debts. A Roundtable on Justice and Financial Institutions held
in Yaounde in November 1994 concluded that five problems require attention. First, debtors should no
longer be able to oppose application of the accelerated recovery procedure to the uncontested part of a
claim. Second, they should no longer be able to block SRC's right to use the privilege of the Treasury. In
the future, this privilege should also apply to real property, including machinery and equipment. Third,
freezing of assets pending court cases will be easier, quicker and with limited recourse. Fourth, the judges
are not always aware of the recent laws, regulations and jurisprudence due to the interruption of the
publication of the official gazette and of the judgments of the supreme court and courts of appeal. Fifth,
there is a lack of skilled human resources and financial means in the Ministry.
54.   The Government intends to address all these issues but with clear priorities. It will first draft the
needed amendments to the current laws (89-201, 92-008 and 94-327), that are needed to strengthen
recovery. Publication of the Official Gazette and main court decisions will resume by June 1996 and
budgetary allocations of the Ministry of justice have been increased in 1996 and this effort will be continued
during coming years. Finally, supervision of the magistrates and other civil servants will be strengthened to
address biased court decisions.
55.   These measures should be considered as preliminary steps in the context of a medium-term effort
that will need support from all the donors to achieve significant results and resume trust in the judiciary
time.
VI - LESSONS LEARNED AND STRATEGY FOR IDA ASSISTANCE
56.   Despite the fact that public enterprise reform was an important part of the previous adjustments
operations (1989 and 1994) and was supported by an Economic Management Project (PAGE; Ln. 3110-



- 14 -
CM), results have been disappointing. Apart from some initial progress resulting in the closing-down of
several non-viable PEs in the 1988 adjustment program, the PE reform program was hampered by many
factors, including: (a) persistent economic imbalances; (b) emphasis on performance contracts without
realistic incentives; (c) lack of a satisfactory institutional framework for PE supervision and divestiture; and
(d) deficient organization of the unit responsible for PE restructuring. The PAGE implementation
completion report (ICR, Report No. 14156) shows that although most of the studies which had to be done
were completed, only limited action was taken by the authorities. It concludes that the privatization
program was never internalized by the Government and was probably too broad, and that its objectives were
never clearly defined. In addition, the institutional framework was inadequate to ensure a smooth
divestiture process and allow efficient supervision of the other PEs.  Performance contracts and
privatizations failed because of both the lack of commitment from Government and PEs and the
unsatisfactory framework.
57.   However, since the January 1994 devaluation, some significant progress has been made with respect
to privatization, liquidation and the financial supervision of PEs: (a ) the general objectives of the
privatization program were clarified by the Government in 1994 and more recently during the preparation of
SAC II; (b) a general statute for public enterprises was approved in August 1995; (c) the legal framework
for PE divestiture has.been recently modified to separate portfolio management from privatization and the
Government has agreed to further streamline the process by reducing the number of layers/approvals needed
for each divestiture; and (d) a comprehensive list of enterprises to be privatized has been established by the
Government. As a result, privatization resumed in 1995: (a) one of the largest agro-industries, HEVECAM,
was put on the market in December 1995; and (b) more recently in March 1996, invitations to bid were
issued for CAMSIHP, the national shipping company. In addition, the Government is committed to expand
the scope of the divestiture program.
58.   The lessons learned from past experience have led to addressing first some of the critical issues
underscored in the PAGE completion report, such as institutional arrangements. In addition, the choice of
HEVECAM for the first large privatization, a profitable company for which more than eleven foreign
investors have expressed interest, will help build a successful record for privatization. The Government
institutions and staff, private operators and other donors were broadly involved in the preparation of the
program. To build a broad consensus, the Government is currently launching a public relations campaign
financed under the PPF aimed at presenting its program and the specific objectives it wants to achieve. In
addition, following the Private Sector Assessment Seminar a public/private sector working group has been
constituted to follow-up recommendations made during the seminar; this working group will be regularly
informed of the progress in the divestiture program and will be able to make further recommendations.
Finally, a more sequential approach will be used. The current program includes 18 PEs; it is aimed at: (a)
achieving some significant transactions such as the sale of HEVECAM; and (b) completing the privatization
of a number of PEs that were listed in previous decrees but for which sales have not yet been completed.
Based on the progress achieved, the program will then be expanded on a yearly basis.
59.   EI)A's Akssistance Strategy. The country assistance strategy discussed with the Board on February
8, 1996, is to hcVp recover lost ground in economic and social development as quickly as possible while
further restructuring the economy to remain competitive in a rapidly changing world. Over the next three
years, the Bank's program will be aimed at: (a) consolidating the benefits of the devaluation; (b)
accelerating growth and alleviating poverty; and (c) creating a climate favorable for private sector
development. The main tools to achieve these objectives in the short-term are the on-going SAC and the
Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Project which is scheduled for FY97 and which will focus on
privatization and regulatory measures aimed at creating an environment conducive to private sector
development and growth. The proposed operation is complementary to these adjustment operations; with



- 15 -
respect to privatization, SAC II will provide support for setting-up an adequate framework for privatization
and the proposed project will support preparation and implementation of privatization that will be one the
main objectives of the next Sectoral Adjustment Credit; with respect to the financial sector,
restructuring/privatization of banks and reorganization of SRC are conditions of release of the financial
sector tranche of SAC II that will be supported under the proposed project and its PPF advance.
60.    To ensure efficient implementation of the project, agreements were reached as follows: (a) staffing
of the privatization technical unit (already implemented), selection of the accounting firm to prepare the
financial statements of the project is a condition of effectiveness of the project; and (c) an action plan
satisfactory to IDA to resume publication of the Official Gazette is a condition of disbursement of this
component.
VII - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
61.    The proposed project is an integral part of the Bank's broad strategy for Cameroon; its objectives
are closely linked to adjustment operations and aimed at encouraging growth and private sector participation
in the economy. The project will provide additional financing to complete PE privatization work in the
agriculture and financial sectors respectively launched in 1994 and 1995 under PPF financing, and enlarge
the scope of privatization. Furthermore, the project's objective of establishing a transparent institutional
framework will help accelerate the overall privatization program.  Finally, the  proposed project will
prepare the groundwork for the next adjustment sector operation (The Enterprise Reform and Divestiture
Credit) scheduled for FY97. More specifically, the project objectives are to: (a) put in place an adequate
and transparent institutional framework for privatization/liquidation and implement a broad privatization
program; (b) improve the regulatory and business environment in a limited number of well targeted areas
complementary to the privatization program; (c) reorganize the loan recovery agency and support the
restructuring of two banks; and (d) provide preliminary support to the judiciary to initiate a program of
reforms over the next few years.
Project Description. To achieve the above objectives, the project would consist of the four following
complementary components:
(a)    Privatization and Liquidation. This component will provide consultant services to: (i)
complete selected privatizations, including the largest enterprises in the agriculture sector
and the public utilities, as agreed by the Government during the negotiations of SAC II; (ii)
complete the ongoing liquidations and implement procedures allowing quick
scission/liquidation, the most likely approach to divestiture/restructuring; and (iii) launch
privatization promotion campaigns to inform the public of the implications, as well as the
benefits associated with the Government's divestiture program.   The privatization/
liquidation process will be implemented by private advisers who will have incentives built
in their contracts to achieve the objectives set up by the Government. The project will also
provide basic equipment to the privatization unit and will finance the recruitment of a
limited number of long-term nationals and foreign experts to help supervise the process;
(b)    Restructuring Two Banks and the Loan Recovery Agency.  This component will
support: (i) the reorganization of the Loan Recovery Agency to increase collection of loans;
and (ii) completion of the restructuring/privatization of two out of the four largest banks
targeted under SAC 11;



- 16-
(c)    Preliminary Support to Improve the Private Sector Environment.   In addition to
implementing divestiture of public enterprises, the project will also support some critical
actions aimed at improving the business environment that are complementary to the
privatization program. The specific actions that will be supported by the project are as
follows: (i) finalizing the competition law; (ii) a review of the incentives system, especially
the investment code; and (iii) a review of sectoral regulations, such as the energy framework
and the mining code, to support private sector participation; and
(d)    Strengthening of the Judiciary.  This component will be limited to providing the
necessary support to the Ministry of Justice to enable the regular publication of main court
decisions in the area of business laws and financial sector, and of the Official Gazette so to
allow normal diffusion of laws and regulations and to strengthen the Inspection Directorate
of the Ministry of Justice.
62.    Technical Assistance Training and Seminars.  The credit would finance 752 person-months of
consulting services of which 492 for local experts, for short-term studies, staffing of the privatization unit,
training and seminars; the break-down of these person-months is provided in the table below:
Table 2. Person-month by Type of Technical Assistance and Activity
Formulation of      Staffing of   Policy Support  Training
Divestiture Srategies  Privatization Unit
and Restructuring
Agro-industries             41
Energy                      15
Industry                    18
Other Enterprises           72
Financial Sector            96                                             12
Communications                                                32
Sector Management                             288             113
Judiciary                                                      8           20
Other                       60                                51           17
VIII - BENEFITS AND RISKS
63.    Project Benefits. Given the limited number of public enterprises that provide financial statements
in Cameroon, an accurate evaluation of project benefits is difficult to conduct. However, shifting ownership
of assets to the private sector and reducing state participation in the economy are expected to bring the
following results: (a) further reduction of financial transfers to PEs; (b) growth in foreign and domestic
private investment; (c) improved efficiency of enterprises and key public utilities; and (d) increases in
public savings. Public savings will be improved by reducing direct and indirect subsidies and improving
fiscal revenues, since all PEs are now subject to the tax code. In addition, settlement of the cross-debts
between Government and PEs and adequate financial supervision of these enterprises should prevent PEs



- 17 -
from building up new arrears. It is also expected that privatization of some of the largest PEs will catalyze
the investment that the Government was unable to finance and, therefore, ensure a significant increase in
production and exports, especially in the agriculture sector. The improved efficiency of the key public
utilities and the privatization of the shipping, airline and railways companies will also reduce transaction
costs for the private sector. Based on conservative hypotheses, a successful implementation of the project
should bring about the following benefits:
(a)    despite the fact that direct subsidies to PEs have been almost eliminated since 1994, indirect
subsidies such as debt taken over by Government or tax evasion, are still high for various
enterprises and can be estimated to be in the order of at least US$20 million a year. Better
supervision of PEs and fast privatization of some of them should result in the reduction of
these transfers up to US$18 million over three years;
(b)    comparisons between public and private enterprises show that, on average, rotation of assets
is much higher in private companies (0.79) than in public enterprises (0.45). For the three
large agro-industries alone, additional investments to be financed by the new owners are
estimated to amount to US$30 million; better efficiency of these new enterprises would
result in a cumulative increase of value-added of US$10 million over the next four years,
assuming no change in commodity prices. In addition, an eight percent reduction of
technical losses of the public utilities between 1998 and 2000 would result in gains of
US$25 million, which would in turn translate into better service, reduced costs of operations
and lower tariffs; and
(c)    finally, proceeds from privatization are estimated at US$80 million over four years and
would increase the budgetary surplus up to 20 percent.
64.    Risks. The risks of the proposed operation should not be underestimated, including: (a) lack of
commitment to privatization in some line ministries; (b) significant delays, especially with respect to the
effective implementation of the revised privatization framework ; (c) Government's reluctance to deal with
sensitive issues such as redundancies; and (d) the general population's distrust of the privatization process,
given the lack of transparency of previous sales. These risks are to be viewed in the context of the
presidential elections scheduled for 1997. In addition, there is a serious risk that transparency problems
with one privatization may discourage foreign investors whose participation is crucial for the success of the
program.
65.    Government is conscious that failure to act decisively on its privatization program would delay
Bank further support in the form of adjustment lending, with serious consequences on the viability of the
macroeonomic framework. It is determined to move forcefully in the months ahead. The project is an
instrument designed to help the Government implement its economic reform program, with special
emphasis on divestiture of public enterprises. It supports key measures to reduce the above-mentioned risks
(e.g., transparency of bids, streamlined and efficient institutional support).  These, together with
Government commitment to the reforms will help mitigate the risks. The program will also be closely
supervised.



- 18 -
SECTION B. PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
I - PROJECT COSTS
66.    Total project costs, including price contingencies and taxes, are estimated at US$16.7 million. The
costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$15.8 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$12.1 million, or 73 percent. The Government would bear the cost of taxes and duties levied on
consulting services, goods, estimated at US$0.8 million. The Government will also provide offices for the
privatization technical unit and support 10 percent of the local costs, consultants services excluded. Given
the current budgetary constraints, no other contribution to the project would be requested from the
Government. A summary breakdown of the project costs net of taxes is given below.
67.    Financing.  Out of a total project costs of US$16.7 million, Government would finance US$1.1
million, including US$0.8 million in taxes and US$0.3 million in counterpart funds; EU and CFD would
finance US$3.0 million for consulting services, and the remaining, US$12.6 million, would be financed
under the project, including US$2.0 million for the refinancing of two PPFs.
Table 3. Estimated Project Costs
Component                                                  Total Costs
(US$ million)
I. Equipment                                                     583
2. Consultants' Services and Studies
(a) Privatization                                             8,340
(b) Liquidation                                                300
(c) Financial Sector Restructuring                            1,700
(d) Project Preparation Facility                              2,000
(e) Public Relations Campaign                                  700
(f) Judiciary                                                  300
(g) Private Sector Environment and Incentives                  675
3. Training and Seminars                                         310
4. Publication                                                   495
5. Operating Costs                                               557
Non allocated                                                    425
Total                                                          15,885
II - PROCUREMENT
A. Employment of Consultants
68.   In order to ensure the satisfactory execution of the project, the Borrower will be requested during
negotiations to provide assurance that qualifications, experience, and termns and conditions of employment
of consultants shall be satisfactory to IDA. Such consultants will be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, published by the Bank Group in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). Procurement procedures are indicated in Schedule B. The model letter of invitation



- 19-
issued by the Bank Group shall be used. For complex assignments, the Borrower will employ such
consultants under contracts, using the standard form of contract for lump sum or time-based payments
issued by the Bank Group, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by IDA. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank Group, the Borrower will use other forms agreed
with IDA prior to launching the bids.
69.   Following the recommendations of the Country Procurement Assessment Report issued in April
1994, which concluded that procurement practices in Cameroon were inadequate, and to enable a
satisfactory procurement process, the following measures were agreed during preparation:
(a)    short-lists shall be a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 firms with no more than two firms
from the same country;
(b)    quality shall be the main criterion for the selection of consultants; and
(c)    bid and performance securities shall not be requested from consultants.
B. Procurement of Goods
70.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$210,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, including: (a) bids are opened
in public in the presence of bidders or their representatives; (b) there will be no negotiation with bidders
between bid opening and contract award; (c) bid evaluation and post-qualification criteria will be defined in
precise quantitative and monetary terms; (d) award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder;
and (e) foreign bidders will be allowed to participate in the bidding if they wish to. Specialized services
(publication of the official gazette) will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB).
71.   Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions:
(a)    with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of a Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that one conformed copy of the contract,
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to IDA
prior to the making of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of such
contract;
(b)    with respect to consulting services contracts with firms and individuals, the prior review
threshold will be US$20,000 and US$5,000 respectively;
(c)    with respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to IDA as
part of the evidence to be furnished showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures; and



- 20 -
(d)   the provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
During negotiations, the procurement plan summarized in Schedule D has been agreed upon.
III - DISBURSEMENTS
72.    Schedule B details the amount to be disbursed from the credit per category. The percentage of
expenditures to be financed is 100 percent of the cost net of taxes and duties for consultants' services, 90
percent of other costs for goods, operating costs and other services.
73.    To facilitate disbursements and to ensure that funds are available on time to finance the costs of
services to be provided under the project, the Government will establish a Special Account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be managed by the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement, and its authorized amount is CFAF 250 million. In addition, three sub-
accounts will be opened and will be managed by the Ministry of Finance, the head of the privatization unit,
and the Ministry of Justice. These sub-accounts will be replenished by CAA through the Special Account,
at least every month, on the basis of the justification of the expenses paid. Requests for replenishing the
Special Account will also be submitted to IDA on a two-month basis or at such intervals as IDA shall
specify.
74.    Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation, except for contracts of less than
US$50,000 for consultants and goods, for which certified statements of expenditure would be used. These
statements of expenditure will be subject to review by supervision missions and periodic financial audits.
The minimum application size for payments directly from the credit account will be US$50,000.
IV - ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
75.    Accounting. The Ministry of Finance, the head of the privatization unit, and the Ministry of Justice
and CAA will maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project. Accounting of the project
will be sub-contracted to a qualified local firm that will review the procedures of the different units and
prepare the financial statements of the project on a quarterly basis. The selection of the accounting firm will
be a condition of effectiveness of the project.
76.   Auditing. During preparation of the project, the Borrower agreed to:
(a)    have the records and accounts referred to in the preceding paragraph, for each fiscal year,
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b)    furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested;



- 21 -
(c)    furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(d)    without any limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) above, have the
records and accounts of the Special Account audited in accordance with paragraphs (a)
through (c) above every six months after the Effective Date; and furnish such audits to IDA
at the latest within two months following the end of the periou audited.
77.    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 94, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(b)    retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(c)    enable IDA's representatives to examine such records; and
(d)    have the records and accounts of the statements of expenditure audited in accordance with
paragraph -76 above: and ensure that the report of such audits contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the period
preceding such audit, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
SECTION C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
78.    Organization and Management. The newly created Privatization Technical Unit attached to the
Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for the privatization/liquidation component of the
project. The Minister of Economy and Finance, with the support of his adviser financed through the French
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, will be directly in charge of the financial sector components. The private
sector development component will also be managed by the Minister of Economy and Finance with the
support of a steering committee that will associate staff of other Government agencies such as the Industry
and Trade Ministry to ensure good coordination. The Ministry of Justice, specifically the Inspection
Directorate, will be in charge of the Judiciary Component, including the publication of the Official Gazette.
79.    A Project Implementation Plan has been prepared by each of the component coordinators to help
implement and monitor the project. The plan would include all project procedures agreed with IDA,
standard bidding documents for consultants, the list of consulting services to be procured and the type of
procurement, estimated costs, the terms of reference of the most important studies and support services to be
carried out, and standard forms for progress reports, including the specific indicators to be monitored. An
outline of the Project Implementation Plan was agreed during project preparation. Terms of reference for
the critical project activities in the short-tern have been agreed by the Government (i.e., financial advisors
for the privatization of SODECOTON, SOCAPALM and CDC, study to resume publication of the Official



-22 -
Gazette, and advisor to the General Manager of SRC). Letters of invitation, including terms of reference,
and short-lists for these activities have been reviewed by IDA.
80.    To address up-front some of the critical issues (i.e., misprocurement and mismanagement of special
accounts), brought to light by the country portfolio implementation carried out by the Resident Mission in
1993, a central unit for management and administration will be established at the beginning of the
operations. Its role will be to: (a) implement sound procurement practices among all the components; (b)
draft or review all the contracts; (c) ensure that Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures are
enforced; and (d) make the link with the Debt Management Agency (CAA) which will manage the Special
Account. In addition, the project supervision plan calls for tight supervision at the start of the project to
ensure a good and quick implementation.
81.   Implementation Schedule.  The implementation schedule of the project was agreed during
preparation of the proposed project as well as during negotiations of SAC II. It is provided in Schedule D.
It was prepared on the basis of the following assumptions: (a) the credit would become effective by October
1996; and (b) it would be executed over a three-year period and would be closed by December 31, 1999.
82.    Reporting and Monitoring. The contents and timing of progress reports have been agreed during
negotiations. Progress reports will be prepared quarterly and in advance of each Bank's supervision
mission. The reports will review progress on financial execution and studies; these reports would also
monitor the indicators presented in Schedule G that will be agreed during negotiations:
83.    Supervision Plan. Bank staff input into the supervision of the project would take the following
form:
(a)    Portfolio Management. Procurement documents, terms of reference and reports (progress,
final, studies, financial statements) would be reviewed at Bank Headquarters.
(b)    Field Supervision. Missions will review the progress of technical assistance and studies in
the three broad project areas of policy support, institutional development, and project
preparation and implementation. Missions will monitor the impact of project activities and
discuss action plans for implementing study recommendations.
84.    Mid-Term  Review.  Under the supervision of the Minister of Economy and Finance, the
coordinators of each component will prepare and hold a mid-term review of the project execution no later
than November 30, 1997. The review will be organized in collaboration with the Administration, public
enterprises, IDA supervision mission, and representatives of donor agencies involved. The review process
will include progress in meeting project's objectives, overall project performance against established and
agreed key performance indicators, implementation of study recommendations, and performance of
consultants under the Project. The mid-term review will provide the opportunity for IDA to assess the
Government's continued commitment to the project objectives. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed
to the carrying-out of a mid-term review and to its objectives.



- 23 -
Schedule A
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ 000 equivalent)
Project Components                            Local   Foreign     Taxes     Total    % Foreign      % Total
Exchange     Base Cost
A. Privatization and Liquidation
1. Privatization (consulting services)
(a) Public Relations Campaign            100      600         17       717         83.68         4.39
(b) Socapalm                               -      275          -       275        100.00          1.68
(c) Sodecoton                              -      350          -       350        100.00         2.14
(d) CDC                                    -      400          -       400        100.00         2.45
(e) Sonel                                  -      600          -       600        100.00         3.67
(f) Cimencam                             20        100         3        123        81.30         0.75
(g) Inrelcam                               -      800          -       800        100.00         4.90
(h) Snec                                   -      500          -       500        100.00         3.06
(i) Other enterprises                    158     2,988        27      3,173        94.16         19.41
(j) Other studies (regulatory)           75       375         13       463         80.99          2.83
2. Staffing of the Privatization Unit       400       500        120      1,020        49.01         6.24
3. Liquidation                              300          -       51        351             -         2.15
4. Portfolio Management                     260          -       27        287             -         1.75
5. Training                                  70       140         12       222        63.06          1.36
6. Operation Costs of Privatization Unit    557          -       81        638             -         3.90
7. Equipment                                242          -       96        338             -         2.06
SUBTOTAL                                      2,182     7,628       447     10,257        75.34        62.78
B. Financial Sector
1. Consulting Services
(a) SRC                                   200       400        34       634         63.09          3.88
(b) Banks                                          1,000         -     1,000          100          6.12
2. Training                                  50        50         8        108        46.30          0.66
3. Equipment for SRC                        220          -       88       308              -         1.88
SUBTOTAL                                       470      1,450       130     2,050         70.73        12.54
C. Support to the Judiciary
1. Consulting Services                                200          -      200           100          1.22
2. Publication of the Official Gazette      485          -       84        569                       3.48
3. Training                                 100          -        17       117             -         0.72
4. Equipment                                121          -       48        169             -         1.03
SUBTOTAL                                       706       200        149     1,055         18.96         6.45
D. Preliminary Review of the Business
Environment
1. Consulting Services                      150       525        26       701          74.9          4.29
E. Audits                                      140          -        34       174             -         1.06
F. PPF Refinancing                             600      1,400       102     2,102         66.60        12.86
TOTAL BASE COSTS                             4,248    11,203       888    16,339         69.18        100.00
Physical Contingencies                           0        100         0       100          100          0.61
Price Contingencies                             75       200         50       325                        1.99
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           4,323    11,503       938    16,764         69.21       102.60



- 24 -
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
B. Financing Plan
Sources                        Local         Foreign         Total
IDA                             3.873          8,727         12,600
Govemmenl                       1,164              -          1,164
EU                                  -          1,000          1,000
CFD                                 -          2,000          2,000
TOTAL                           5,037         11,727         16,764



- 25 -
Schedule B
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Procurement Methods
(US$ 000 equivalent)
Procurement Arrangements
Intemational    National                      Not
Competitive   Competitive                     Bank
Bidding (2)   Bidding (2)       Other (2)   Financed           Total
A. Goods
Computers                             220                                                          220
Other Equipment                       243                                                          243
Vehicles                                            210                                            210
B. Specialized Services
Publication of the Official Gazette   485                                                          485
C. Training and Seminars
1. Local                                                              220                         220
2. Abroad                                                              190                         190
D. Consulting Services
1. Privatization                                                     6,050        3,000          9,050
2. Financial Sector                                                   1,787                       1,787
3. Judiciary                                                           300                         300
4. Business Environment                                                675                         675
E. Operating Costs                                                        220       285(1)            505
F. PPF Refinancing                                                       2,000                      2,000
G. Taxes                                                                               879            879
SubTotal                                948            210              11,442       4,164          16,764
(I) Government counterparts including equipment
(2) All the amounts under ICB, NCB and Other are IDA-financed



- 26 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
B. Allocations and Disbursements under Proposed IDA Credit
(US$ COO equivalent)
Allocation category                          Amount   % Financed
(USS 000)
Privatization and liquidation
- Consultant Services and Training               6,010      100%
- Equipment                                        220      90%
- Operating Costs                                  370      90%
Financial sector restructuring
- Consulting Services and Training               1,700      100%
- Equipment                                        200      90%
Judiciary
- Consulting Services and Training                 300      100%
- Equipment                                        110      90%
- Publications                                     450      90%
Private Sector
- Consulting Services and Training                 675     100%
Audits                                             140      100%
PPF Refinancing                                  2,000     100%
Non-allocated                                     425       N.A
Total                                           12,600
C. Estimated Disbursements
(US$ 000 equivalent)
FY                        1997                1998                 1999                2000
Annual                    4,355                4,590               2,515                1,140
Cumulative                4,355                8,945               11,460              12,600



-27-                                                                                      SCHEDULE C
Page I of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Entreprise        Raison Sociale                        Activite           Statut                       Participations                    Chiffres   Valcur   REsultat    Actifs   Situation   Effectif
d'affaires  Ajoutec       Ntt                   Nette
Etat    SEM      SNI       Privds     Privds
EPIC                     nationaux  etrangers
Transport
CAMAIR (94        Catmeroon Airlines                    Transport arnen    SEM            7500      0.00     0.00       0.00       2500        34 34       1009       -448       2225       -1708        1,560
CAMSHIP (94)    Carneroon Shipping Lines                Transponr maritinle SEM           36 30     0 00    30.30       0.00       33 40       25 14       2.95        0 19      25 39        3 01        276
CAMTAINER(94) SocieteNationaiedeTransportetde           Transponlde        SEM            25.00    15.00     000       1500        4500         100        032        -0.17        148        0.00        142
Transit du Cameroun                   containers
CNCC(94)          ConseilNationaldesChargeurs           Conseil aux        EPA             0.00     000      0.00       0.00        000         069        019         042        6.11        467          121
du Cameroun                           chargeurs
CNIC              Chantier Naval et Indust du Camneroun  Chantier naval    SEM            45.00    10.00    15 00       000        30 00        1 75        n a         n.a.      ni a         ni a.       195
LABOGENIE (93) Laboratoire National de Ginie Civil      Recherche, etudes  SCP           100.00    0.00      0.00       0 00        0.00        1 41        1 20      -0 48       6.86       -2 48        408
MATGENIE (93)  Parc National de Materiel de Genie Civil  Gestion de mat6riel SCP         100.00     0.00     0.00       0.00        0 (10       0 72       0.58        3 29       8 87         n.a.       385
de travaux publics
ONPC (94)         Office National des Ports du Cameroun    Gestion portuaire   SCP       10000      0.00     0.00       000         000        17 11       13 63       0.51      94.48       34 27       1,035
RNCF(94)          RcgieNationaledesCheminsdeFerdu    Transport             SCP           100.00     000      0.00       000         0.00       2409        1496        094       16726      10435        3,200
Cameroun                              ferroviaire
SOTUC(94)         SoecitedesTranspoftsUrbainsdu         Transporturbajit   SEM            75.00    0.00      4.00       000        21.00        1 71       086       -13.27       13.70     -3090         990
Cameroun
lotal(S)     105.49       44.19      -18.40     337.53       95.84      7,732
Industries Extractives
SNH               Societ Nationale des Hydrocarbures    Promotion des      SCP             100        0        0           0           0        3.66        n.a.       n.a.        n.a         n a        251
hydrocarbures
BOSCAlvt          Bouygues Offshore Cameroun            n.a.               n a.            n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.       n.a         n a.        n.a.       n.a
(GETRAM)
ELF SEREPCA       ELFRecbercheeet Exploitation Pdtroliere   Recherche/exploitp  SEM         20        0        0           0         80       6920        75.19        7.15      120.58       1.15        438
du Cameroun                           ftroliere.
MPC(94)           Mobil Production Cameroon             Recherche/producd' SEM              20        0        0           0         80         1.39       167       -55.34      19.K00     -3202         n.a.
hydrocarbures
PECTEN            PECTEN Cameroon Company               n.a.               SEM              20      n.a.     n a         n a.        n.a        n a.        n a.       n.a.        n.a.        n.a        n a
TEPCAM (94)       Total Exploration/Production Cameroun    Recherche/producd' SEM           20        0        0           0         80        9.09        -073        557        1685        261          86
hydrocarbures
Total (3)     79.69       76.13      -55.34     156.44      -28.26        775



-28-                                                                                            SCHEDULEC
Page 2 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Entreprisc       Rsion  Sociak                         Activite          Statut                       Participations                   ChifYres   Valcur   Resultat   Actifs   Situation   Effectif
d'affaires  Ajoutee      Net                   Nette
Etat    SEM      SNI      Privts      Prives
EPIC                     nationaux  etrangers
Agro-
Industries
CAMSUCO (92)   Cmncroon Sugar Company                  Production sucriore SEM           62.5       0      35.6        0.1         1.8       3.81        n.a.      -490        10.78     -35.92      2,592
CDC (94)          Camrwoon Developmcnt Corporation     Exploitation de tht, SCP         100.0       0        0           0          0       29.67       16.05      -0.45      6976        13.87     13,500
palmier,  via, aet
bananc
HEVECAM (94)   Sociae de Dtveloppencnt Hevea-          Exploitation hevta  SCP          100.0        0       0           0          0        9.01        5.76       105       4506        17.21      4,351
Camnoun
SCT(94)           SocieteCamerounaisedeTabacs          Production tabacs  SCP            33.4       0      66.4          0          0        0.25        0.05       1.59       0776       -6.13        n.a.
SEMRY             Socitt d'Expansion et de Modernisation   Riziculture   SCP            100.0       0        0           0          0         nl.a.      ni a        n a        n a        n a.        n.a.
de la Riziculture d Yagoua
SOCAPALM(94)  SociettCrnerounaisedePalmeraics          Exploitationide   SCP            100.0       0        0           0          0       12.27        6.60     -1614        1491       -027       4,072
palmiers
SODECAO(94)   Socidtt*deDveloppmncnttdu Cacao          Cacao             EPA             88.2       0      11.8          0          0        040         n.a       -016        447         184         n.a.
SODECOTON (93) Sociite de Developpement du Coton du   Production et      SEM             45.0       0      25.0          0        30.0      26.58        1.03      -2(05      8871         569       1,637
Cameroun                             transformation de
colon
SOSUCAM (94)   Socitd Sucriere du Cancroun             Productionsucrire SEM             34.4       0       7.8          0        57.8      12.01        6.64       0.98       1059        2 70      1,800
MAISCAM           SocidttdesMaiserienduCameroun        Culturceltrans-    SEM            15.0       0      15.0       70.0          0        3.16        3.34       0.29       610         0.97         77
formation du mais
MILKY WAY        Socitti de Farication dc Produits     Production/vente   SEM               0       0      35.5       65.5          0        0.28        n.a         n.a.       n.a       -2 36         95
Laitiers                             dc produits laitiers
SAFACAM(94)   SoeittdAfricaideForestiereetAgricole    Hdv4aculturcet    SEM                 0       0      35.0          0        65.0       3.30        1.98      -0.26       5.86        2.39      1,503
palmier i huile
du Camneroun
SCAN              Socidtd des Conserveries Alimentaires  Conserves       SEM                0       0      49.0       51.0          0         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n a        n a.        n.a.
du Noun                              alimentaires
SIC-CACAO(94)  SocieteIndustrielleCamerounaiscdu       Productionet      SEM             15.0       0      15.0       17.9        521        7.03        2.05       0.85       4.09        1 32        156
Cacao                                transformation de
ffeves de cacao
SODEPA           Socidet de Detveloppement t d'Exploita-   Developpenent    SCP          66.7       0      33.3          0          0         n.a.       n a.        n.a       1a a         n.a.       n.a.
lion de Production Animale           production animale
UCCAO             Union Centrale des Cooptratives      Commercialisation/ COOP            n.a.    n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       2.08       -0.21        n.a.      1215        2.44         95
collecte du cafe
Total (9)       103.28      43.48      -20.49     265.11       37.73     29,878



-29-                                                                                   SCHEDULE C
Page 3 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Entreprisc       Raison Sociale                       Activitt          Sbatut                      Participations                   Chifrres   Valeur   Resultat   Actirs   Situation   Elfectif
d'aflaircs  Ajoutec      Net                  Nettc
Etat   SEM       SNI      Prives     Prives
EPIC                    nationaux dtrangers
Autres Industries
ALUBASSA (94)  Societi Aluminium de Bassa             Quincaillefie     SEM               0     70.1    17.3        11.0         1.6       1.31       0.44       0.13       1.31       0.05         79
aluminium
ALUCAM(94)    CompagnieCamerounaisedel'Aluminium  Produc. aluminium  SEM                39.7       0      6.9          0       53.4       43.16       906        1.38      52.10       2149        810
CAMELCAB(94)  Cameroon ElectricCables                 Fabricalion cables  SEM             0        0     40.0          0         60        0.49       0.23      -0.28       09         -1.73        67
decmtriques
CICAM (94)       Cotonniere Industrielle du Cameroun  Tissagc, Teinture   SEM             0        0     300           0         70       10.51       3.63      -0.80       15.96       3.96      1.004
Impresion coton
CIMENCAM(94)  CimenteriesduCameroun                   Fabrication/veimie  SEM             0        0     63 1         14        35 5      19.64       5.91       1.18       19.61       8.25       577
dc ciment
ECAM-            Entrqxise Camacunaise de Placage     Transfonnatiots du  SEM             0        0     35.0          0         65        4 39       1 25       0.43       3 00       063         345
PtACAGES (94)                                         bois
SABC(94)         Societt6AnonymedesBrasseriesdu       Production/vaite   SEM              0        0     15.8        6.4       77.8       5815       23.07      -257       64 18       4647       1.210
CtMnaeF                              biere-soda-sirop
SABM (SCBMP)  Societ Ceise de Broyage de              Broyage mninerais  SEM            35.0       0       0           0         65        0 04        n a.       n.a.       n.a.      -0.27          3
Minerais Ptio iers
SATC             SociddApplicationsTedniquesdu       Fabricationde     SCP               0     74.8    25.2           0          0        0.04      -0.03      -007        0.18        024          18
Coierama                             bouchosa
SCM              Socidtt C    _aeroutaise des Mmnes   Minotenes         SA                                                                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        G.a
SEMC(94)         SocietedesEx aMidraiesdu             Productiond'eau    SEM              0     52.5    37.5           0         10        1.13       0.03       0.08       0.88        0.42       n.a.
Caeroun                              min.iae (Tangui)
SCS(94)          SocidetCamaounaisedeSachries         Fabricationde     SEM             39.4       0     26.6          0         34        127        0.12      -0.93       3.72       -2.75        190
sacits
SCDP(93)         SocieteCunerounaisedesDepp&s         D6pitspdtrolicr    SEM            40.0       0     11.0          0         49        4.13       2.55       0.33       995         524        243
Petroiers
SONARA(94)       Socidt6NationaledeRaffinagc         Raffincrie        SEM             49.0       0     17.0          0         34       82.11      16.45       5.10      80.77       23.72        520
SOCATRAL(94)  SocietdeCunaunaisedeTraisformation   Trgusfoanationde  SEM                  0     52.5    25.0           0       23.5       15.37       1.95       0.25       8.54        2.29        155
de rAluminium                         al'uminium
SOCAVER (94)   SocidtdCunanm aisede Vereric           Fabrication/vente   SEM             0     36.7    35.0        13.3         15        3.71       2.32       0.05       5.08        1.75      4.77
bouteilles et flacons
SOFIBEL (91)     SocidteForestieret Industriellede    Exploitation      SEM             39.4       0     40.0          0       20.6        2.72       0.92      -1.02       4.19       -7.75        n.a
Bebabo                               foresti6r:
SOLICAM          Socidt TextileduCainesounpourLinge   Confectiondelinge SEM               0        0     13.8       52.0        34.2       2.08       0.66       0.00       4.16        1 75        160
de Maison                            de maison
SONADIC           Sociitt Nationale des Domaines      n.a.              EPA            100.0       0        0          0          0    '  n a.         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n a        n.a.
Industriels du Camneoun
STPC (TANICAM) Societt des Tanneries et Peausseries du    Tanneries     SEM             n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n a.       n.a.       n.a.       n a         n a.       n a
Cameroun
SYNTECAM         Soci6tt Cmnerounaisc de Fabrication  Confection de     SEM             n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       n.a.       n a         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       nm a.       n a        mi a
de Tissus Synthdiiques (SOLICAM)     tissus
Total (15)    250.18       68.58      -5.60    274.44       103.79      5,537



-30-
SCHEDULE C
Page 4 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
E;tttrcpri5e      Raigon Sociale                       Activite          Statut                       Participations                   Chiffres   Vtaleur   Rbsultat   Actifs   Situation   Effectif
d'affaires  Ajoutce      Nel                   Nette
Etat    SEM      SNI      Privds      Privds
EPIC                     nationaux  dtrangers
Energie et
Eau
SNEC(94)          SocieliNationaledcsEauxduCameroun   Distnbution d'eau    SFM              74        0        0          0         n.a.      13.07       7.46       -497     203.78      -38.44      2,176
SONEL(93)         SocieW Nationale d'Electricite       Electricite         SEM            93.05       0     001           0        6.94       57.64      43.60        3.08    323.5 5     139.22        n.a.
'I'otal    70.71      51.06       -4.97    527.34      100.77      2,176
Autres
Services
CHU               Centre Hospitalier Universitaire      Hopital            EPA              100       0        0           0          0         n.a.       n a.        ri a       1i a       n a        499
CNPS(93)          CaisseNationaledePrevoyance          Prestationis        EPA              100       0        0           0          0       27.94        na        -697      15929      10347       2.903
Sociale                              sociales
HGY               Hopital GCneral de Yaounde           Hopital             EPA              100       0        0           0          0         ii a       n.a.       na. d1a                n.a        402
LANAVET (93)    Laboratoire National V1eeinaire        Production vaccins   SCP             300       0        0           0          0        0.22       0.03       -020        5.24       0.21        118
OFFICE            OfficedesProduitsCerealiers          Stabiliserpnxdes    SCP              100       0        0           0          0        0.13       0.03        028        0.78      -0.38         32
CEREALIER (94)                                         produits cerealiers
ONADEF(93)        OfriceNationaldeDeveloppeinentdes     Developpementdu    EPA               0        0        0           0          0        1.18       0.31        0.58        193       3.04        489
fordts du Cameroun
secteur forestier
SNI (94)          Soci&t Nationaled'Investissements    Investissemenits    SCP              100       0        0           0          0        2.67       2.26        0.09      3458       40.92        3oo
CDEN              Caissede Dveloppement del'Elevage du  Support nalelevage   EPA           300       0        0           0          0         n.a.       n.a.       n.a         n.a        n.a         100
Nord
CDENO             Caiswede Developpement de l'Elevage  Developpement de   EPA               100       0        0           0          0         n.a        n.a.        n.a.       n a        n a.          2
pour le Nord-Ouest
I'3evage
CDPM              Caisse de Dveloppement de la P6che    Peche et activites    EPXA          300       0        0           0          0         n.a.       n.a         n a        ii a       n a        n.a.
Maritime                             aniexes
CENAFOP           CentreNationaledeFormation            Formation          EPA              100       0        0           0          0         i a.       n.a        lia.        II a.      It a       n a
Professionnelle Continue             Prol essionnelle
CPC (94)          Centre Pasteur du Cameroun            Recherche medic.    EPA             100       0        0           0          0        0.56        0 26      -0 45        1 47       1 37        97
CEFAM             Centre de Fornation pour AdFninistratioit  Fonmation     EPA              100       0        0           0          0        0.01        n.a         n a         1 a       n a         42
Municipade
CENEEMA           Centre National d'Etudes et dExprimen-  Mcanisatioin     SCP              100       0        0           0          0        0.16        n.a         n a.      1i a        n a         54
tation du Machinisrrw  Agricole      Agricole



-31-                                                                                          SCHEDULE C
Page 5 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Entreprise         Raison Sociale                         Activit*           SvtlA                           Participations                    Chiffres    Valcur   REsultat    Actifs    Situation   Effectir
d'aftaires  Ajoutec        Net                    Nette
Etat    SEM       SNI       Privts      Privds
EPIC                      nationaux  Otrangers
CSPH (93)         Caisse de Stabilisation des pns des     Regulansation pnx   EPA                100        0        0           0           0         8.74        2.49        622        28.94      28.21          68
Hydrocarbures                          hydrocarbures
DGTC               Direction des Grands Travaux du        Realisation ct       EPA               100        0        0           0           0         0 44        n.a          n a         1 a       -I 84        122
Cameroun                               contr6le des
grands uavaux
IMPM              Institut de Recherche Medicale el d'Faude  Recherche medic   EPA               100        0        0           0           o         n.a        1a a          n a         n a        n a          67
des Plantes Medecinales
IRA               Institut de la Recherche Agronomique    Recherche agro       EPA              100         0        0           0           0         1 93        n a          n a        a a         n a         886
IRGM              Institut de Recherches Geologiques et   Recherche Goilog    EPA                100        0        0           0           0         n a          n a         n a         n a        ni a.       132
Miniere
IRZV               Institut de Recherches Zootechniques et    Recherche Zootec    EPA           100         0        0           0           O           a         n a          n a         n a        n.a         367
vetennaires
MAGZI              Mission d'Amenagement et de (iestion   Developpemeiin       SCP               100        0        0           0           o           a          n a.        n a         It a       n.a         n.a
des Zones industrielles                indusinel
MEBENOUE           Mission d'Etude pour l'Amenagement de la Amettagement du    SC(P              100        0        0           0            0 o1 a                a a         n a         n a        n.a           64
vallee superieures de la Benoue        territoire
MEDSO              Mission d'Etudes pour le Developpemenm   Developpement Rural EPA              100        0        0           0           0         n a          n a         a a         n a        n.a.         64
du Sud-Ouest
MID-S-E            Mission de Developpement du Sud-Est    n.a.                 SCP               100        0        0           0           0          n.a.        n a         n.a.        n a        n.a         n a
MIDENO (94)        Mission de D1veloppement dela           Dcvelkpp.ement      SCP               100        0        0           0            0        0.01       -006         0.03        241         0 51          80
Province Nord-Ouest                    rural
MIDEPECAM (94) Mission de Developpement de la Peche    P&che artisanale        SCP               100        0        0           0           0         0.32        0.02       -0 05        0 36       0.31           52
Axtisanale Maritime
MIDIMA (94)        Mission de Nveloppement des Monts      Developpement        SCP               100        0        0           0           0          n.a       -0.02        005         0.55        n.a.        n.a.
Mandara                                regional
OLNC (93)          OfficedelaLoterieNationaledu           Jeuxdehazard         SCP               100        0        0           0            0        0.89        0.58       -012         0.50        0.43         42
Cameroun
ONCC (93)          Office National du Cacao et du Cafe    Contrle de qualite/  SCP               100        0        0           0           0         0.59        0.32        0.56        5.04       0.34         140
suivi camnpagne
ONDAPB             Office National de Developpement de     Developpement de    SCP               100        0        0           0            0         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a        n.a.        n.a.
I'Avicuthure et du Petit B6tail
l'Aviculture
ONZFI              Office National des Zones Franches      Gestion du regime    GIE              n.a.     n.a.     n a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n a.       n.a.           7
Industielles
de la ZFI
OPV                Office Pttarmaceutique Wterinaire       Commericali.        SCP               100        0        0           0            0         n.a.        n.a.        n.a         n.a.       n.a.         49-
medicaments vet.
PAL.des            PdaisdesCongres                         Locationdesalles    SCP               100        0        0           0            0        0.12       -0.02       -0.78        5.47        5.85        n.a.
CONGRES (94)
SEFERCAM           Soci*M Etudes Fer au Cameroun           n.a.                SEM              n.a.      n.a.     n.a.        n a         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        na          na         n.a.        n.a.
SEGAZCAM           Soci6t6dcEtudesMise oGazdu             n.a.                SEM               n.a.     n.a.     n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a        n.a.        n.a.
Cameroun
Total (10)       15.43        6.22       -1.59       88.73       50.80       1,218



-32-
SCHEDULEC
Page 6 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Ettrcpris         Rlaison Sociale                      Activitt          Statut                        Participations                  ChilTres   Valcur   R*sultat   Actifs   Situation   EfNectif
d'affaires  AjoutEc       Net                  Ne9rc
Etat    SEM      SNI      Prives      Privcs
EPIC                     nalionaux  fIrangers
H6tellerie/Tourisme
AYABA HOTEL   Ayaba Hotel Bamenda                      Hotellene           SCP           100       0       0          0          0             0.12       0.05       -0.21       1.77       1.67         44
(94)
CAMPEMENTDE Campement de Waza                          Hotellerie et       n.a.          100       0       0          0          0             0.05        na.       -0.01       n.a.        n.a        n.a.
WAZA (94)                                              Restauration
CENTRE            Centre Climatique de Dschang         Hotellene           SCP           100       0        0         0          0             0.05        n.a.       n.a.       n.a         n.a         32
CLtMAT.
CHC (93)          Catneroon Hotels Corporation         Hotellene           SEM           40        0       30         0          30            1.72       0.56       -3.89     25 32        2 29        200
CHL              Catneroon Hotels Limited              Hotellene           SCP           n.a.     n.a.     n a.      n.a        na             n.a.        n.a.       n.a        n.a.        n.a        n.a.
CPE               Cameroun Publi-Expansion             Publicite Tounsme   SEM            0        0       60         0          20            n.a.        naa.       n.a.       n.a. na                 46
HOTEL DE WAZA Hotel de Waza                            Hotellerie          SCP           100       0       0          0          0             n.a.        n.a        n.a.       n.a.        n a        n.a.
SGHC(94)         Soci4e8desGrandsHotelsduCameroun    Hotellerie            SEM           3.6       0      89.5       na.        6.9            0.96       0.41       -0.15      2.05       -0.9'        225
SHE (93)         Soci&6Hotellierede l'Est              Hotellene           SCP          76.2       0      23.8        0          0             0.05       0.01       -0.02      0.26       -0.04         10
SHNC             Novotei Garoua                        Hotellerie          SEM           50        0       47        n.a.       n.a.           n.a.       in.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
SOHLI(94)        Soci*e Hotellitredu Littoral          Hotellerie          SEM           3.4       0       89        0.5        7.1            1.01       037        -0.17      2.35       -079         196
Total (5)         3.86        1.40      -4.45     31.75        2.17        675
Communications
IMPRIMERIE       ImprimerieNationale                   Imprimerje          SCP           100       0       0          0          0             0.54       0.47      -0.25        3.04      -I 75        271
NATIONALE
CEPER            Centre d'Etudes pour l'Enseignement el la  Art polygraphique    SCP     100       0       0          0          0             0.29        n.a.       n.a         n.a        n.a        140
Recherehe
SOPECAM (93)   Soci&*dePresseetd'Editionddu            Presse/nmprimerie    SCP          100       0       0          0          0             0.66       0.13       -0.76       3.08      -I 54        147
Camnerotm
CRTV(94)          Cameroon RadioTelevision             Audiovisuel         SCP           100       0        0         0          0             0.69      -0.97       -1.34      2801       -5 63       1,590
DInELCAM(94)   Soci6tedesT`l&communications            Servicesde          SCP           100       0       0          0          0            12.46       9.06      -13.65     14585      11605         450
Intemationale du Ca;meroun           Telecom.
Total            14.65       869       -16.00     179.98     107.13       2.598



SCHEDULE C
Page 7 of 7
State's Portfolio and Financial Indicators
(CFAF billion)
Entreprix        Raisot Sociale                        Activitt          Statut                       Participations                   Chiffres   Valeur   Resultat   Actifs   Situation   Effectif
d'affaires  Ajoutec      Net                   Nette
Etat    SEM      SNI      Priv6s      Prives
EPIC                     nationaux  etrangers
Immobilier
MAETUR (93)    lUission d'Amenagement et               Amenagemetl!        SCP          100.00    0 00    0.00      0.00        0.00           1 35       2.25        5 56       8.81      -2.70        131
d'Equipcment des Terrains Urbains    equipement
SIC(93)          SocieietmmmobiliieeduCameroun         tmmobilier          SEM          96.00    000      0.00      4.00        0.00          6.90        477        -1.18      94.56      -799         1na
SIMAR(93)        SocietelnmmobiliereMaritime           tmmobibler          SEM          42.90    28.60    000       2860        000           000         001        -4.24       9.59      -4.58        n.a
Total             8.25       7.03      -5.42      112.97     -15.27        131



0
wn
-J
0~~~~~~~~~~4
t~~ ~ In
m~~~~~~~~I
0)                          N                        a~~~~~
4)>C                                                                                         VI       ~.   . 
Co
to                 -  UtC
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E                                                         o0  r   r   r (  ifa Er0 I
U)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
E                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
>M ~ ~ ~                                   S                                                   
CL LL



1.~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
-  a  2  2  2  2  5            a             0                     5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -  -         -      o      6      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           c)C
a-  6  "  --  -  2  2  =           a      a             a      2      2      a              -      -                    -             6      a                                       3O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
B. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~                                                                               
2 2 2   2      2      2     -    a     a         0.            6       a      2      6      0      2                                  2   ~         6      s      a;
ES  2  2  2  2  2  0  2  0  2  2  13  -            6      a      13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
2  5  1  2  2    -  0.          2             -             a      a                                  a          ~         a              3     3
5~~~~  5  13  2  a  a  a  a  i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-  a  -  a ~~~~~~~~~~~  2  2  -4                  -                                                             5<~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Z  Z ~ ~ ~ ~     ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        -
. 1..........a......  a.......a.......a......................                          ... ................................                     ...
13    13    13    13  2  -  2                                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................... .......
...... -   .. ....
5~~~~~~~~l
2  2  2  2  2  2            2                    2                                  a      2      -  ~~~~~~~~          2      2      a~
2         2         ~~Ci~
21  0  a  2  a  a  o                                                                                                   -                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                          . ............... ....... .  ................... ..................
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0  1
- <
C,
:0~A~
'8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
I  CU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il 



0
w
IU
CC ),.                 .  ..                          .    . .  . .  . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .  .   . . . . . . . .. .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .   . . . . . .
(j, 
z
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0-
0                                     -     
.r E~~~~~~ 
0 a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2'
cu co    z              2            8     ~        ~u                                        29
0- 0- ~     ~         ~         ~         ~                    ~                                       -



> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0~-
2  U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
C         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.           ..................................................  .   ...... ....  ..   ...  ..                                                                       ..  ..          .     .......     .........................
..... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... ....   ...   .... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... ..... ...  ...   .... .... ..... ..  . ...  .... .... ..... .  .. .   .. ....  CI 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~4
..   .   ..........  .............................   ..........  . ...............                    .    ...   .   . . .. ..... .   ... ....... ......*...
I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
K     m
U. 0



CL    - 
~~~~~, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    8 
S     m t                                                                          r., m            m|A     i                      m m e  e  S  g  _  _  S  M  g  S  _  S  Z  k  +     S
I~~~~~~~~~~fa  0j5] 0S S!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -ml
..................................................................................................................    ........................................................... ......................... E..........                ..SIt
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0        ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~                             0.~~~~~~
... ... ... .. ... ..   .. ... ...   . .                  . ... ..  .0.  .   ..                                                             . . .          ....   .. ._.. .
.. . .. . . ..   .   . . .  . .   .. . .. . . .. . . .. . . .  . . .. . .   . .   . .   .. . . .. . . .   . . .. . .   . . .. . . .. . . .  . . .. .  .   . . .. . .   . .   . . . .. . . .. .    8. .
Ca
.. .       ..   .. .. . .. . .  .     .. . .. .. . .. . .. . ..   . .   . . .. ..    . .   .   . .   . . .. ..   .. . .. . ..   . .   . . .. .. .   . . .. ..   ... .    . . ..   ..  
I                               me~~~~~~~:
5                                                                                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
z                                                                                                                                                  5. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~r



111111Si    !i  liii    II[iifiI33i tl! l   I.
_MSeBYs                         SSSg                                                         XI  S _       [4
.. ... .... == ............. ... ........... .... ...... .... . ..... .... .. ,. = .... .....Fs!.|H
I         0
s m



0
w
   0
0
W   N
o o
a
0
0
0
- N
0
0              m
NO
- N
0
m
0
I
a
2      a
a-
8
CC
@O.   U-     -
C -
CC
4)2
.c *
Ii
I
____  I                    _______________________________________
I-



-42-
Schedule E
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
Periode                 Activites                    Profils                   Personnes -semaines
Siege        Terrain
1997                    Passation de marchCs         Passation de marches     1.0
Semestre I              Evaluation des progrCs       Secteur Financier        2.0           1.0
Reglementation          1.0           2.0
Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Gestion de Projet       2.0           2.0
Decaissement            1.0
Privatization           3.0           2.0
Tableau de bord EP      2.0           1.0
Communication           1.0
Total                   14.0          9.0
1997                    Passation de marches         l'assation de marches    1.0
Semestre 2              Evaluation des progres       Secteur Financier        2.0           1.0
Reglementation          1.0           1.0
Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Gestion Projet          2.0           1.0
Privatisation           4.0           2.0
Tableau de bord EP      2.0
Communication           0.5
Total                   13.5          6.0
1998                    Passation de marches         Passation de marches    1.0
Semestre I              Evaluation des progres       Secteur Financier        1.0           1.0
Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Reglementation          2.0           1.0
Gestion Projet          2.0           1.0
Privatisation           4.0           2.0
Communication           0.5
Total                   11.5          6.0
1998                    Passation de marches         Passation de marches     1.0
Semestre 2              Evaluation des progres       Secteur Financier        1.0           1.0
Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Reglementation          1.0           1.0
Gestion Projet          2.0           1.0
Privatisation           3.0           2.0
Communication
Total                   9.0           6.0
1999                   Passation de marches          Passation de marchts    1.0
Semestre I              Evaluation des progres       Ministere de la Justice    1.0         1.0
Reglementation          1.0           1.0
Gestion Projet          1.0           1.0
Privatisation           2.0           2.0
Communication
Total                   6.0           5.0
1999                    Passation de marches         Passation de marches     1.0
Semestre 2              Evaluation des progres       Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Reglementation          1.0           1.0
Gestion Projet          1.0           1.0
Privatisation           2.0           2.0
Communication
Total                   6.0           5.0
2000                    Passation de marches         Passation de marchts     1.0
Semestre I              Evaluation des progres       Ministere de la Justice    1.0        1.0
Reglementation          1.0           1.0
Gestion Projet          1.0           1.0
Privatisation           2.0           2.0
Communication
Total                   6.0           5.0



SCHEDULE F
43                           Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PRIVATIZATION AND PRFWVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Letter of Development Policy - Public Enterprises (SACII)
1.    Since 1986, the Government has recognized the need to completely reorganize its public
sector portfolio (220 enterprises). To this end, it created the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
Mission in June 1986, charging it with formulating a new policy on government equity
participation and developing regulations for the supervision, control and management of state-
owned enterprises.
2.    After an initial phase of studies, the implementation of the reform started in 1988/89 and
went through two distinct stages: (i) a first phase, which ended in June 1994, the main
component of which was the review of the scope of the portfolio and the rehabilitation of the
largest enterprises; and (ii) a second phase, which started in July 1994, the main objective of
which was government divestiture.
3.    Despite numerous difficulties, the action plan for the first phase of reform, adopted by
the Government in consultation with the World Bank and set forth in Economic Strategy and
Recovery Declaration adopted in May 1989, was implemented with the following results as of
June 30, 1994: (i) a significant reduction of the government portfolio through the liquidation of
close to 36 percent of the enterprises, of which 22 were statutory bodies and 57 limited
companies. This portfolio reduction resulted in appreciably lower direct government subsidies,
which went from a yearly average of CFAF 150 billion to less than CFAF 20 billion in 1993/94;
(ii) the technical and financial rehabilitation of 25 public enterprises, including some of the most
important ones, and a significant rationalization of the Government/enterprise relationship
including the definition of precise economic and financial objectives for the enterprises; and (iii)
the privatization of five enterprises (OCB, SEPBC, SOCAMAC, COCAM, SCDM) and the
compulsory liquidation of three others (SEAC, CREVCAM and GETRAM).
4.    The Declaration of General Policy relative to public and parapublic enterprises adopted
by the Government in May 1994 defined new rules for government involvement in the economy.
These regulations imply a disengagement from the productive sector and the reorientation of
government activity towards basic development. The legal and institutional framework that
served as the basis for the implementation of this new policy consists of: (i) the ordinance of
June 22, 1990, regarding the privatization of public enterprises and its application decree of
August 30, 1990; and (ii) the ordinance of August 17, 1995, defining the General Statute of
Public Enterprises.
5.    This new orientation of public enterprise reform was reflected as of July 14, 1994 in a
presidential decree that listed 15 new enterprises to be privatized. This brought to 22 the total
number of enterprises to be privatized by that date. An additional step was taken on June 1, 1995
with the decision to associate the private sector in the management of public utilities (water,
electricity and telephone), for which preparatory work has started.



44                           SCHEDULEF
Page 2 of 3
6.    The first implementation measures of this new policy have led to the divestiture and
liquidation of seven enterprises during the last 18 months (Onaphram, OPV, Socatour, Seda,
Sotuc, Soderim and Cenafop) and the privatization of eight others, including three by sale of the
Government's minority share (SPFS, SRL and CHOCOCAM), two by management contract
(Aeroports du Cameroun and a banana plantation) and three by sale of assets (ONDABP
Yaounde and Muyuka, as well as Sofibel). The preparatory work for the privatization of the four
key enterprises of the transport sector (CAMSHIIP, CAMTAINER, CAMAIR, REGIFERCAM)
has also been started.
7.    However, the Government is aware that the privatization process has been slower than
expected, and that improvements are urgently needed.
8.    In order to support the emerging economic recovery, it intends to: pursue methodically,
and at a sustained rhythm, its policy of divestiture; accelerate the restructuring of the sector; and
reinforce the financial supervision of the enterprises maintained in the Government's portfolio.
The following measures will be taken: (i) simplification of the decision-making procedure as
regards privatization, so as to reduce the number of steps; (ii) adjustment and clarification of the
legal framework for privatization in some key areas; (iii) privatization of public enterprises in a
more sequential fashion, so as to allow for the completion of preparatory work before adoption
of the decree disclosing the short-list of enterprises admitted to the privatization procedure (the
objective is to shorten the time lag between the publication of these decrees and the actual
transactions); and (iv) for the privatization of enterprises in monopoly situations, implementation
of mechanisms putting an end to these monopolies and/or, in the case of certain public services,
establishment of a regulatory framework to avoid any abuse of dominant position. The same
approach will be adopted for public enterprises whose divestiture is not immediate.
9.    The Government is equally aware that, owing to the size of the enterprises put up for
sale, the privatization process will succeed only if substantial external investments are mobilized
and the Government promotes broad national participation. To this end, it intends to implement
the following additional measures: (i) launching a large-scale communication's campaign to
present the privatization program both domestically and abroad; and (ii) implementing
arbitration mechanisms to settle potential disputes that could arise in the context of the
transactions, in lieu of domestic courts of law. It will also encourage the creation of an
investmentlprivatization fund to support the participation of nationals in the privatization
process.
10.   The implementation of the policy of divestiture should result as a matter of priority in:
(i) privatization of the four public enterprises of the transport sector, that is, CAMAIR,
CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER and REGIFERCAM, as well as the CNIC; (ii) privatization of the
largest agro-industries, including HEVECAM, SOCAPALM, CAMDEV, SODECOTON,
CAMSUCO, SCT, Station ONDAPB de Douala, and Station Pilote Laitiere de Ngaoundere; (iii)
association of the private sector in the management of the three main public utilities, water,
electricity and telecommunications; (iv) continuation of the divestiture of banks, insurance
companies and other financial institutions (SOCAR, CNR, BICIC, etc.); (v) progressive
privatization of the various semi-public companies operating for the most part in the processing
industry; and (vi) completion of the liquidations begun as of June 30, 1995 under the scope of
activities of the Rehabilitation Mission and not yet completed.



45                             SCHED.LIE F
Page 3 of 3
11.    As regards the reorganization and restructuring of the public enterprises that will be
maintained within the Government's portfolio, priority will be given within the next three years
to those whose economic and social function is particularly sensitive. The relations of these
enterprises with the Government will henceforth be governed by performance contracts and other
appropriate mechanisms. In addition to the removal of subsidies to enterprises operating in
markets, these measures will aim mainly at reducing their production costs, improving their
technical and financial performance, and strengthening transparency in management. In order to
assess the impact of these actions, the Government will regularly publish a report for public
enterprises highlighting: (i) the consolidated financial accounts of these enterprises; (ii) financial
flows between the Government and public enterprises; and (iii) changes in arrears and cross
debts.  This report will be completed for 20 enterprises before June 30, 1996, and be
progressively extended to all enterprises within two years.



- 46 -
.Schedule G
Page I of 2
PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators and Expected Results
Objectives            Activities         Cost        Performr.tice Indicators             Expected Results              Implementing
f; JSSM)                                                                      Agency
Efficient and         Privatization of at   5.40     1/ Timely completion of the divestiture   1/ US$ 80 million increase in   Ministry of
transparent divestiture  least 18                    program;                              Govemment's Revenues;        Finance
program               enterprises                    2/ On average. 5 bidders for each     2/ Reduction by 8% of        Privatization
over 3 years                   enterprise;                          technical and non-technical   Technical Unit
3/ Average privatization process not to  losses of public utilities; 1
exceed one year for each enterprise;  3! Additional investment of
4/ Average cost of transactions not to    USS 30 million.
exceed 8% of the sales proceeds (lease
contracts and social costs excluded).
Improving portfolio   Expansion of       0.30        1/Timely implementation of SISEP;     Reduction by USS 18 million   Ministry of
management            SISEP                          2/ Yearly analysis of financial flows  in direct and indirect subsidies  Finance
between Govemment and PEs.           over three years.            Rehabilitation
Technical Unit
Liquidations       0.30        li Transparent liquidation process
implemented by private experts
2! Completion of 26 on-going
liquidations over 18 months.
Financial sector      Restructuring of    0.9        1/Timely implementation of the        I/ New board and             Ministry of
restructuring         SRC                            restructuring program;                general/deputy general       Finance
2/ Acceleration of recovery.        manager in place by June      Banking Unit
1996;
2/ US$ 15 million recoverv by
June 1996; US$18 million
plus 7% of the new portfolio
by end 1997.
Restructuring      1.0         1/ Timely implementation of the
/Privatization of              program - restructuring completed by    1/ Banks profitable by end
two banks                     end 1996;                             1997.
2/ Financial sustainability of the
restructured banks.
Total billing I (production less auto-consumption)



- 47 -
Schedule G
Page 2 of 2'
Objectives             Activities           Cost        Performance Indicators                   Expected Results               Implementing
(USSM)                                                                              Agency
Support to the          Publication of the   0.45      I Resumption of regular publication by   I/ Diffusion of all laws and   Presidency
Judiciary              Official Gazette                 Oct .1996 on a ftinancially sustainable  regulations                    General Secretar)
basis;
2' Publication of the Official Gazette                                 Ministry of
financed by the Government by March                                    Justice
1998                                                                   Inspection
Directorate
Strengthening of the                        0 41        1/ 6 full court inspections completed    I/ Strengthening of court
inspection directorate                                  each Near:                               supervision and diffusion of
2/ Regular Publication of the supreme   the jurisprudence.
court jurisprudence'
3/ Publication of a financial sector law
review  .
Improving business     Review of the        0 68        I/ study of a transparent and equitable                                 Ministry of
environment             incentives system               incentive system:                                                       Finance
and formulation of              2/ Increase of private sector                                           Private/Public
sectoral                        participation in infrastructure.                                        Commission
regulations.









I'IAGING
Report No:T        6928 CM
Type: MOP



