Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2882 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Privatization and Private Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 23, 1996
Credit Number 2882 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 6, 1996, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy, including a privatization 
program (hereinafter called the
"Privatization Program"), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of 
the Privatization Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by agreement, dated August, 13, 1993 (the "EU Grant Agreement") the 
European Union ("EU") has agreed to make a grant (the "EU Grant") to the Borrower in 
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to CFAF 5,993,000,000, to assist in financing 
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the EC Grant Agreement; 
and
(D)
by an agreement, dated May, 3 1994, (the "CFD Loan Agreement") the Caisse 
Francaise de Developpement ("CFD") has agreed to make a loan (the "CFD Loan") in an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 2,500,000,000, to assist in financing part of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in
Page  2
the CFD Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere de 
l'Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
"MINEFI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;
 
(c)
"MINJUSTICE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice;
 
(d)
"PE" means any enterprise in which the Borrower has directly or 
indirectly (through any of its subdivisions or through any other enterprise) a 
financial participation equivalent to 20% or more of the equity of such enterprise;
(e)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means, collectively, the project 
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the 
exchanges of letters, dated December 8, 1994 and November 2, 1995, between the 
Borrower and the Association;
(g)
"PTU" means the Privatization Technical Unit (Commission Technique de 
Privatisation) established by the Borrower's decree No. 96/014, dated January 23, 
1996;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"SRC" means Societe de Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun, a financial 
public corporation established by the Borrower's decrees No. 89/1283, dated August 18, 
1989, and No. 91/066, dated January 23, 1991.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2006 and ending May 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  4
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project through PTU, Parts B and C of the Project through MINEFI and 
Part D of the Project through MINJUSTICE, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking and legal practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,  facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  5
Section, 
including those for the Special Account and for the 
sub-accounts referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or 
payment out of the Special 
Account or its sub-accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of  expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Privatization Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior  to 
the agreed 
maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform 
Page  6
any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has employed, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an accounting firm acceptable to the Association 
for the purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual satisfactory 
to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for economy and finance of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINEFI
8260 KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  7
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Pierre Nzengue
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                               Credit                % of
                              Allocated          Expenditures
                            (Expressed in            to be
      Category             SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Consultants                                 100%
      and training under:
      (a) Part A of           4,160,000
          the Project
      (b) Part B of             470,000
          the Project
      (c) Part C of           1,180,000
          the Project
      (d) Part D of             210,000
          the Project
      (e) Project audits        100,000
(2)   Goods under:                               90%
      (a) Part A of             150,000
          the Project
      (b) Part C of             140,000
          the Project
Page  8
      (c) Part D of              80,000
          the Project
(3)   Publication               310,000          90%
      services under
      Part D of the
      Project
(4)   Incremental               250,000          90%
      operating costs
      under Part A of
      the Project:
(5)   Refunding of            1,380,000           Amounts due
      Project                                     pursuant to
      Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated               370,000
                              _________
      TOTAL                   8,800,000
                              =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating costs" means 
expenditures incurred by PTU for staff travel and associated subsistence, office 
rental, office supplies and communication, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments under Category 3 of paragraph 1 above, until the Borrower 
has submitted an action plan satisfactory to the Association for resumption of the 
publication of the Official Gazette.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in the implementation of the 
Privatization Program and improve the institutional framework therefor; (ii) improve 
the enabling environment for private sector development in areas complementary to the 
Privatization Program; (iii) support the reform of the financial sector; and (iv) 
strengthen the functioning of the judicial system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization
 
1.
Defining and implementing privatization procedures under the Privatization 
Program.
2.
Carrying out the privatization or liquidation of PEs already identified under 
the Privatization Program or to be identified in accordance with the procedures under 
paragraph 1 of this Part.
3.
Carrying out a public relations campaign aimed at: (a) presenting the objectives 
of the Privatization Program to increase public awareness; (b) describing investment 
opportunities arising out of the Privatization Program to attract foreign investors; 
and (c) ensuring information on
Page  9
specific divestiture operations.
4.
Strengthening of PTU's capacity to prepare and execute privatizations through 
staff training, provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment.
Part B:
Private Sector Development
 
1.
Preparation of draft legislation on competition, mining and energy and other 
areas related to the development of the private sector.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to improve the regulation of the 
private sector and the system of investment incentives.
Part C:
Financial Sector
 
1.
Supporting the reorganization of SRC and its operations to increase the recovery 
of bad loans through computerization and the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Supporting the restructuring/privatization of two major financial institutions 
through the provision of financial and legal technical advisory services.
Part D:
Judicial System
 
Strengthening MINJUSTICE through:
(a)
staff training, provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment for the Inspection Office;
(b)
resumption of the publication of the Official Gazette;
 
(c)
contributing to the publication of the judgments of the Supreme Court and 
of the Courts of Appeals; and
(d)
acquiring law books and periodicals for the libraries of courts and 
tribunals and contributing to the publication of a commercial law review.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the "Guidelines") and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
Page  10
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $210,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultants' Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals 
estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior 
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, 
as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $20,000 
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $5,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in conformity with a Project 
Implementation Manual which shall contain, inter alia, the procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, financial management and other implementation arrangements for the 
Project, including standard bidding documents for consultants, the list of 
consultants' services, the terms of reference of the main studies and support services 
to be arried out, and estimated costs thereof.
Page  11
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
ensure that all its departments and agencies responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof shall comply with the procedures included in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and
(b)
not amend or waive the Project Implementation Manual without the 
Association's prior written approval.
3.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
set out in the Project Implementation Manual and thereafter maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out 
of the Privatization Program, the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 1997, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Privatization Program and the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Privatization Program, the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 30, 1997, or such later date as 
shall be agreed with the Association, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
above and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain PTU for the duration of the Project: (a) with 
staffing satisfactory to the Association; and (b) with responsibilities which shall 
not be modified in a manner not satisfactory to the Association.
5.
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain in the names 
respectively of PTU, MINEFI and MINJUSTICE three sub-accounts under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association. Replenishments of the sub-accounts for 
eligible expenditures to be financed under
the Project shall be made from the Special Account in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  12
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
Page  13
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Spaecial Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
