Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16843
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2024-BU)
June 30, 1997
Agriculture 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: US$1 Equivalent=
Year               Burundi Franc (BuF)
(annual average)
1987                      124
1988                      140
1989                      159
1990                      171
1991                      182
1992                      208
1993                      243
1994                      253
1995                      250
1996                      302
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC          Burundi Coffee Company
CFD          Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement
CICM         Centre International du Credit Mutuel
COOPEC        Savings and Credit Cooperative
DGPA         Direction Generale de la Planification Agricole
FAO/CP       Food and Agriculture Organization/
Cooperative Program with the World Bank
IDA           International Development Association
ISABU        National Agricultural Research Institute (Institut
des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi)
GOB          Government of Burundi
FACAGRO    Faculty of Agronomy
MOAL          Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MRDH         Ministry of Rural Development and Handicraft
OCIBU        Coffee Parastatal (Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi)
RDC           Regional Development Company
Vice President      C. Madavo
Country Director      N. Tcheyan
Technical Manager       J. Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member        M. Muhtar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2024-BU)
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY    TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.  Introduction ..........................................................i
B.  Project Objectives ...........................................................i
C.  Implementation Experience and Results ..........................................................  ii
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations &  Key Lessons Learned .................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction ..................................................                                       1
B.  Statement of Objectives ..................................................2
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives .................                  .................................2
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............                   ..........5
E.  Project Sustainability ..................................................7
F.  Bank's Performance ..................................................8
G. Borrower's Performance ..................................................9
H. Assessment of Outcome .........9........................................9
I.   Future Operations .................................................9
J.  Key Lessons Learned .................................................                              10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................                    16
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................                         17
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .............................                                  17
Table 8A: Project Costs .                                                                              17
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................                                               18
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ............................ 18
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants ............................                                     19
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................                  ................. 23
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................      23
Table  13:  Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................          24
ANNEX:
A:    Comparison of the Agricultural Services Sector Project with the Muyinga
Agricultural Development Project ........................................        ................ 26
B:    Implementation Completion Mission Aide-M6moire ...................................... 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2024-BU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Agricultural Services
Sector Project in Burundi for which Credit 2024-BU in the amount of SDR 25.1 million
(US$33.1 million equivalent) was approved on May 25, 1989 and made effective on
February 20, 1990.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on
April 24, 1997, at which time the cumulative balance of SDR 9.72 million (US$13.3
equivalent), representing the undisbursed amount, was canceled.
3.    The ICR has been prepared by Mansur Muhtar, with support from D6sire
Coquillat, Prosper Nindorera and Eavan O'Halloran, and with input from local
consultants. A mission took place to discuss the preliminary findings of the ICR with the
Borrower during May 15-19, 1997. These have been endorsed by the Borrower, with
some suggested minor modifications which have been incorporated in the final ICR. The
Aide-Memoire of this mission is attached as Appendix 1. The Borrower's contribution
has not been received by the Bank.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2024-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Agriculture is the mainstay of the Burundi economy, and has, for the past few decades,
contributed about 60 percent of GDP and employed more than 90 percent of the population. For
much of the 1970s and 1980s, agricultural productivity increases in the sector were marginal,
with production growth accounted for by cultivation of previously unused lands. Bank support
to the sector has evolved from financing crop and sub-sector specific investment activities to
technical assistance projects and area-based integrated rural development operations. The latter
type of operation was envisaged as the model for agriculture and rural development. However,
poor implementation performance and weak results recorded in various African countries,
including Burundi, necessitated a revision of philosophy and approach. Accordingly, following
protracted dialogue with Government, it was decided to abandon the integrated rural
development approach in favor of a more focused agriculture services sector project.
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    Project Objectives. The Agricultural Services Sector Project (PASA) was designed as a
hybrid operation supporting policy and institutional reforms as well as a multitude of investment
activities in the agricultural sector. The policy component was intended to support the reform of
the national input policy and assist in the restructuring of provincial agricultural services as well
as facilitate the reform of salary structure for agriculture staff. The objectives of the investment
component were to: (a) develop MOAL's analytical, programming, budgeting and sector
management capacity; (b) design and establish a national extension system based on the Training
and Visit principle; (c) strengthen agricultural research; (d) rehabilitate the cooperative
movement and promote the development of savings and credit cooperatives (COOPECS); and
(e) promote communal development and rural youth employment.
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Although the objectives supported by the project
derive from the Government's agricultural development strategy, they are too broad to be
pursued under a single operation. Their incorporation into the PASA operation has resulted in a
complex project design, with 6 components and numerous sub-components involving 20 discrete
activities.  Implementation arrangements involved 8 different agencies, posing serious
coordination problems. Project management structure was grossly inadequate, with project
complexity taxing the weak capacity of Government and limiting the ability of the Bank to
provide effective supervision. Technical assistance provision made under the project was
incapable of resolving the problem.



- ii -
4.    Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$40
million, of which US$33.1 million was to be financed by an IDA credit and $5.4 million by the
GOB. The remaining balance was to be financed by Belgium, France and the European
Development Fund. The quick disbursing component made up 23 percent of project cost. At the
time of credit closing, US$21.7 million had been disbursed from the IDA credit, representing 60
percent of the SAR target. Of this amount, US$11.7 million was disbursed from the quick-
disbursing component. Government's total contribution to project financing amounted to about
US$1.4 million.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Achievement of Project Objectives and Sustainability. After initial start-up delays,
progress was made in achieving some of the project objectives, with varying degrees of success.
Major achievements included: (i) the dissolution of the Regional Development Companies
(RDCs) and the creation of decentralized service structures with more focused roles; (ii) the
establishment of a national agricultural extension system; (iii) the reform of agricultural input
policy; and (iv) the privatization of some structures/services. Some limited progress was also
registered in agricultural research activities and in the strengthening of MOAL's capacity. The
objectives of strengthening the cooperative movement, promotion of savings and credits as well
as those of promoting communal development and rural youth employment, were not achieved.
Progress in achieving project objectives was thwarted by the ethnic conflict and protracted
violence, which followed the assassination of the country's president in October 1993. The
continuing unstable situation since then meant that it was impossible to put things back on track
and restore the momentum. The overall assessment is that, the project has only partially met its
objectives and its sustainability is uncertain.
6.    Major Factors in Achievement of Objectives.  The execution of the project's
investment component suffered initial start-up delays, associated with management weaknesses
and the slow recruitment of technical assistance staff. Overall project implementation was
impeded soon afterwards by the emergence of tensions generated by Burundi's nascent
democratization process. For the most part, the project had to be implemented amidst a turbulent
socio-political climate, which degenerated into protracted crises and cycles of violence. The
conflict situation generated serious security problems, massive social dislocation, erosion of
trust, acute macro-economic imbalances, and the collapse of institutions, all of which were
inimical to effective project implementation. The June 1996 embargo and sanctions imposed by
neighboring countries, in an effort to force a negotiated peace accord, furither accentuated the
difficulties, necessitating the suspension of the credit.
7.    In addition to the conflict situation, project design complexity continuously rendered
effective implementation difficult. Technical assistance, which was designed to facilitate project
execution, was either partially effective or not effectively managed/utilized by the Borrower.
The performance of the Government and the implementation agency also had a bearing on the
achievement of project objectives. Problems encountered included: (a) frequent government-
induced turnover of key management staff and lack of suitable TA counterparts; (b) continuous
counterpart funding shortages; and (c) weak financial and administrative management and poor
procurement management. The formalization of an agreed project restructuring, designed to
refocus and simplify the project activities while strengthening management, was pre-empted by



- iii -
the deterioration of the political and security conditions. The embargo and sanctions imposed by
neighboring countries in 1996 further complicated the situation by limiting the flow of needed
project inputs and resources and rendering effective supervision, monitoring and execution of
project activities impossible.
8.    Performance of the Government. Project identification and preparation were quite
lengthy, due mainly to the Government's initial lack of commitment to the new project concept,
which required a lot of dialogue and consensus building. Government's failure to provide the
necessary counterpart staff to work with technical assistance, as well as the frequent staff
redeployments, undermined project performance. The Government also failed to make available
sufficient budgetary resources to meet the project's counterpart funding needs, and was reluctant
to approve training programs. Financial management was lax, resulting in the incurring of
substantial non-eligible expenditures. Following the first suspension of the credit, there was a
distinct effort by the Borrower to improve project performance and to lay the institutional
framework for effective project execution as well as strengthen ownership and participation.
This was, however, stymied by the conflict.
9.    Performance of the Bank. The Bank can be faulted for designing a complex hybrid
operation which was difficult to implement given the limited implementation capacity. The
reliance on technical assistance, even though this was locally derived, overestimated the
Government's capacity to manage and utilize technical assistance effectively. The supervision
of the project by the Bank was not systematic during the first three years of project execution.
Supervision missions were scattered throughout the year, covering different themes, which
stretched project management capacity and created coordination and integration problems. Bank
supervision efforts during the second phase of project execution were more focused and
intensive, involving a full-time local staff recruited to provide direct implementation support and
ensure closer follow-up of activities. Over the project implementation period, there were
frequent changes in task management responsibilities for the project, which resulted in
discontinuity.
10.   Project Outcome. The overall project outcome is unsatisfactory because the main
objectives of strengthening MOAL's analytical, programming, budgeting and monitoring
capability and improving agricultural research and services were only partially achieved. A
great deal of the benefits were diluted by the impact of the conflict and project sustainability
currently remains uncertain. The dislocations associated with the crisis since October 1993,
including the displacement of people, destruction of infrastructure, continuing insecurity,
paralysis of the agricultural service delivery system, and breakdown of the public expenditure
programming process, have rendered it difficult even to retain the partial gains registered.
D.    SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
11.   Project Implementation Experience and Sustainability. The implementation of the
policy component took off smoothly, while delays were experienced in starting up the
investment components. Project design complexity, weak management capacity and poor
coordination continuously impeded project execution. There were also problems associated with
inadequate counterpart funding and poor personnel management and human resources
development policy as well as excessive reliance on long term local technical assistance.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, progress was made in implementing some of the project



- iv -
components and some success was registered. However, the accentuation of the socio-political
crisis, and its degeneration into a cycle of violence, thwarted efforts at project implementation,
undermining some of the registered gains. Project restructuring plans were also pre-empted by
these unfavorable conditions. Given the limited progress in implementing project activities, and
the subsequent disruption associated with the conflict, project sustainability is not assured. The
civil conflict has eroded the country's fiscal and human resource base and deepened divisions in
society.
12.   Lessons for Future Projects.  Some of the key lessons learnt from this operation
include:
(a)    project design should be kept simple and tailored to the Borrower's absorptive
and implementation capacity, with objectives, components and activities
prioritized and focused;
(b)    technical assistance components and activities, where necessary, should be
carefully designed and monitored, taking into account Borrower's ability for
effective management and utilization as well as the over-riding requirement for
transfer of skills, capacity building and training;
(c)    project coordination arrangements operating outside of the public service
structure, limited to overall coordination, facilitation and management, may be
necessary in some instances to facilitate effective project execution;
(d)    the establishment of effective accounting and financial management systems as
well as the Borrower's internalization of Bank's operating procedures are
necessary prerequisites for project implementation, and should receive early
attention;
(e)    attractive salary and incentive structures should be established within the context
of overall civil service reforms, to attract and retain high quality staff for project
execution; and
(f)    socio-political instability, conflict, and adverse political and security conditions
have an overriding impact on project outcomes, and should be factored into
project design and supervision to the degree possible.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2024-BU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    NTRODUCTION
I.    Agriculture is the mainstay of the Burundi economy, and has, for the past few decades,
contributed about 60 percent of GDP, employing more than 90 percent of the population. For
much of the 1970s and 1980s, food production kept pace with population growth, but
productivity increases in the sector were marginal, with production growth accounted for by
cultivation of previously unused lands. The agricultural services delivery system relied heavily
on top-down, coercive approaches and lacked relevant technology packages to diffuse to farmers.
Over this period, Bank support to the sector evolved from financing crop and sub-sector specific
investment operations to technical assistance activities and area-based Integrated Rural
Development operations. The latter were piloted initially in two provinces under management of
newly created Regional Development Companies (RDCs). It was anticipated that they would
constitute the model for agriculture and rural development. However, by the early 1980s, it
became necessary to revisit this philosophy and approach as a result of poor performance
recorded in various African countries, which were also manifested in Burundi. The integrated
rural development approach in Burundi resulted in the establishment of high-cost, unsustainable
development "enclaves" which became heavily reliant on technical assistance. RDC activities
resulted in duplication of efforts with sectoral Ministries and other government agencies, and
were often inconsistent with the role and functions of Government. Private sector initiatives
were undermined by the pursuit of commercial activities and subsidized input distribution under
these projects. Extension services supported by the RDCs were distracted by an array of
secondary, unrelated duties.
2.    Following protracted dialogue, the Government agreed to abandon this development
pattern. A new Agricultural and Livestock Sector Policy was prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) within the context of a Structural Adjustment Program (SAC
II), and the GOB requested Bank's support in implementing this policy. The Agricultural
Services Sector Project (PASA) constituted the principal vehicle for providing this support. It
was designed as a hybrid operation, supporting policy and institutional reforms as well as a
multitude of investment activities in the agricultural sector. Specifically, it sought to redynamize
Burundi's agricultural sector and improve cost-effectiveness of public interventions in the sector,
while creating a conducive environment for greater private sector participation. The project was
approved by the Board on May 25, 1989, and became effective on February 20, 1990.



-2 -
B.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The project was designed as a hybrid operation. The objectives of
the quick disbursing policy component were to support the reform of the national input policy
and assist in the restructuring of provincial agricultural services as well as facilitate the reform of
salary structure for agriculture staff. The objectives of the investment component were to: (a)
develop MOAL's analytical and long-term programming and budgeting capability and sector
management capacity; (b) design and establish a national extension system responsive to
farmer's needs and constraints, based on the Training and Visit principle and aimed at
developing technologies adapted to the various ecological and farming systems; (c) strengthen
agricultural research on fertilization and pest control; (d) rehabilitate the cooperative movement
and promote the development of savings and credit cooperatives (COOPECS); and (e) promote
communal development and rural youth employment. To achieve its objectives, the project
financed the following components: (i) strengthening of MOAL's programming, budgeting, and
monitoring capabilities; (ii) strengthening of agricultural research; (iii) reorganization of
agricultural services; (iv) reorganization of RDCs' commercial activities; and (v) strengthening
of the cooperative movement.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives supported by the project derived
from the Government's agricultural development strategy, and address perceived sectoral
constraints. These objectives were, however, too broad to be pursued under a single operation.
Their incorporation into the PASA operation resulted in a complex project design -- a hybrid
operation addressing a multiplicity of policy, institutional reform and investment issues across
the sector. Because of the multiplicity of these objectives, project design ended up with six
separate components, including a policy component. Each of these had a series of sub-
components, some of which were unrelated, bringing the total number of discrete activities to 20.
Implementation arrangements involved 8 different agencies, spanning across the Ministries of
Agriculture, Environment and Communal Development. Coordination requirements were quite
intensive, while management arrangements, involving central coordination by the MOAL
Director General of Agricultural Planning, proved inadequate, given the conflict with other
statutory responsibilities as well as the immensity of the task. Project complexity severely taxed
the weak capacity of Government and limited the ability of the Bank to provide effective
supervision. Technical assistance provision made under the project could not resolve the
problem, for reasons to be elaborated upon later.
5.    Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$40
million, of which, US$33.1 million was to be financed by an IDA credit and $5.4 million by the
GOB. The remaining balance was to be financed by Belgium, France and the European
Development Fund. The quick disbursing component made up 23 percent of project cost. At the
time of credit closing, US$21.7 million had been disbursed from the IDA credit, representing 60
percent of the SAR target. Of this amount, US$11.7 million was disbursed from the quick-
disbursing component. Government's total contribution amounted to approximately US$1.4
million.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    After initial start-up delays, progress was made in achieving some of the project
objectives, with varying degrees of success. Major achievements included: (i) dissolution of the



- 3 -
RDCs and the creation of decentralized service structures with more focused roles; (ii)
establishment of a structured, disciplined, national agricultural extension system; (iii) reform of
agricultural input policy; and (iv) privatization of rice mills and garage services. Some limited
progress was also registered in agricultural research activities and in the strengthening of
MOAL's capacity, both of which relied excessively on technical assistance support. The
objectives related to strengthening the cooperative movement and promotion of savings and
credits as well as those of promoting communal development and rural youth employment were
not achieved. Progress in achieving project objectives was thwarted by the ethnic conflict and
protracted violence, which followed the assassination of the country's president in October 1993,
and which eroded some of the earlier gains. The continuing unstable situation meant that it was
impossible to put things back on track and restore the momentum. The overall assessment is that
the project has only partially met its objectives.
7.    Support to Policy and Institutional Reforms. Conditions for the release of the two
quick-disbursing tranches were satisfactorily fulfilled by the Government, with the exception of
those related to the study on salary structure for extension staff which were waived. As
envisaged, the implementation of the policy component resulted in the dissolution of the RDCs
and the creation of provincial directorates with well-focused responsibilities, that were more
consistent with the role and functions of the state. Some progress was also made in privatization
of certain entities hitherto managed by the RDCs, in particular. The coffee washing stations
were partially sold to private investors, with the Government holding a minority or majority
position depending on the interest shown by the private sector. Garages were also leased to
private operators. The Ngozi/Kirundo rice mills were however not privatized, but are being
managed as separate commercial entities. The policy component also supported the reform of
agricultural inputs management through the enactment of a unified fiscal policy for both public
and private sectors as well as a transfer of retail marketing to the private sector. In this regard,
however, the measures taken for liberalizing the fertilizer sector were insufficient for permitting
the development of the private sector in the distribution of fertilizers. In addition, not much
progress was made with respect to the commercialization of seed service activities. The reform
of the salary and incentives structure for agricultural services personnel in the Ministry of
Agriculture was also aborted, as this could not be pursued independently of wider civil service
practices.
8.    Strengthening  of the Ministry  of Agriculture's Programming, Budgeting,
Monitoring and Sector Management Capabilities. During the first three years of project
execution, the project succeeded in developing public expenditure programming, budgeting, and
financial control tools and instruments for the Ministry of Agriculture, with support from local
long-term Technical Assistance. Even though a satisfactory Public Expenditure Program (PEP)
was produced for the 1992-1994 and 1993-1995 periods, the PEP instrument remained
disconnected from the budget because it was perceived as cumbersome, and it was not
sufficiently internalized. The strict classification of budget categories did not favor integration
of this instrument in the budgetary process. A monitoring and evaluation system was also
designed and successfully tested in the Muyinga province. These tools, however, were not
sufficiently internalized in the Ministry because of the lack of suitable counterpart staff, frequent
staff turnovers, and low motivation created by poor salary structures. Technical Assistance
continued to play a substitute role and there was no effective transfer of skills. In some
instances, the relationships between Technical Assistance staff and regular staff were
antagonistic and conflictual. As a result of these problems, the tools and instruments developed
by the TA remained unutilized in operational contexts other than on a pilot basis. Political



-4 -
changes since June 1993 resulted in high staff mobility and further weakened the capacity of the
Ministry, exacerbating the problems already being encountered and eroding the registered gains.
Internalization efforts and training of civil servants between 1994 and 1996 did not yield much
results.
9.    Design and Establishment of a National Extension System. After initial delays in
project implementation, a participatory extension method, emphasizing farm-focused/bottom-up
approaches reliant on farmer organizations and field demonstrations, was developed by the
Directorate General of Extension. This was endorsed, at the highest level, as the national policy
and was successfully piloted by the project in two provinces. Subsequently, it was extended to
other provinces beginning in 1993, with some improvements relating to management and
training. Extension-research linkages were also beginning to show signs of improvement after
initial difficulties associated with confusion regarding research-extension roles and relationships
as well as weak organizational capacities. ISABU's on-farm participatory research sites (ateliers
regionaux multidisciplinaires) and the T&V workshops provided the principal mechanisms for
development of technical themes. By mid-1993, important progress was being made in the
extension component and these efforts were beginning to show promising results. Progress was,
however, ruptured by the crisis triggered by the October 1993 events, which ushered in
conditions of uncertainty, insecurity and mistrust that impacted negatively on project
implementation. The fiscal crisis of the State also constituted another constraint as it limited the
flow of counterpart funds needed for meeting basic operating costs. Since mid-1995, credible
attempts were made to redynamize the extension system and adapt to the crisis situation. A more
focused and flexible approach, involving prioritization of activities and greater partnership with
private sector, was adapted, following agreement on the restructuring of the project. Political
support was strengthened and staff motivation enhanced as the project geared itself to relaunch
extension and adaptive research activities. However, the continued deterioration of the security
situation thwarted these efforts.
10.   Strengthening of Agricultural Research. The National Fertilizer Research Program,
supported by the project, suffered start-up delays due to the inability to recruit expatriate TA and
the shortage of local staff. As the tenor of activity picked up, some useful research results began
to materialize, showing promising directions, especially with the early reorientation of project
focus to on-farm-based research. The momentum was, however, slowed by the onset of the
political crisis and growing insecurity. The withdrawal of donor financial and technical
assistance support threw the research institute into complete disarray and eventual paralysis.
Experiments initiated under the project could not be completed and much of the preliminary
results remained unanalyzed. The definition of a Research Master Plan proposed under the
project has not been carried out. Despite the interesting results achieved in the area of
fertilization research, the objectives of this component were not achieved on the whole.
11.   Strengthening of the Cooperative Movement and Promoting Savings and Credit
Cooperatives. The Government and the Bank agreed to redesign the cooperative development
component, following a reform plan to be drawn up and carried out with the participation of the
cooperatives and other NGOs. The implementation of this component was only initiated at the
beginning of 1993 (more than three years after credit effectiveness) due largely to delayed
recruitment of technical assistance. The lack of support from the authorities to the process of
reform of the cooperatives, the problems linked to the coordination and management of the
project, and the country crisis from October 1993 did not permit this component to achieve
tangible results. However, the savings and credit cooperatives (COOPECS) whose activities



5-
were financed by the French under a parallel financing arrangement, achieved some good results
with a rapid increase in the number of offices and deposits. This growth was tempered by the
project organizers who were concerned that the component was developing at a pace
incompatible with the available human resources. The development of the COOPECS did not
continue after the events of October 1993, but almost all COOPECS were able to resume their
activities from 1995 onwards. Financial support under the credit was limited to the financing of
technical assistance, a few vehicles and equipment, and a planned construction program was not
carried out due to the difficult country conditions.
12.   Promotion of Communal Development and Rural Youth Employment.  The
preparation of a pilot communal development plan, which was to provide the basis for
community development promotion, suffered considerable delays due to the transfer of
responsibilities to a newly created Ministry and the project management's preoccupation with
other more urgent tasks. With the accentuation of the political crisis, it became evident that the
execution of communal development programs was unfeasible, and no further effort was made to
pursue this objective. The promotion of youth employment was initiated in Ngozi and Kayanza
provinces through a pilot dairy farm program for school leavers and its execution was contracted
to a private entrepreneur. This was, however, not given adequate support and technical
supervision from government technicians. As monitoring and supervision arrangements were
weak, problems arose relating to contractual claims, resulting in costly litigation, which were
eventually settled out of court. Despite its promising potential, the pilot program was not
successful.
D.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
13.   The implementation of the policy component of the credit took off smoothly, supported
by the on-going Structural Adjustment Credit. All conditions stipulated for release of the first
tranche were fulfilled by the Borrower. Conditions for release of the second tranche were also
fulfilled after a two-year delay, with the exception of the study on salary and benefit policy for
extension staff, which was waived as it was no longer considered important for the achievement
of project objectives. Disbursements under the first tranche were initially impeded because of
weak demand for inputs as well as the availability of grant-financing of inputs by bilateral
donors.
14.   The execution of the project's investment component began to gain momentum only
during the second year of project implementation, following an initial start-up delay associated
with management weaknesses and delays in the recruitment of technical assistance staff. By
mid-1993, progress was being realized in some areas. Overall project implementation was
impeded soon afterwards by the emergence of tensions generated by Burundi's nascent
democratization process. The dramatic political changes generated a fluid and uncertain
situation that was, at least in the short-term, inimical to the pursuit of developmental activities.
As political considerations took precedence over technical matters, policy changes were made
and sector institutions reorganized, complemented by frequent government-induced turnover of
key management staff, which added to the complexity of project management.
15.   During the first three years of the implementation period, project design complexity
continuously rendered effective implementation difficult. Technical assistance, which was



-6-
designed to facilitate project execution, was either partially effective or not effectively
managed/utilized by the Borrower. In many cases, it played a substitute role for regular staff,
with little attention paid to training or skills transfer. The coordinating arrangements involving
the General Directorate of Agricultural Planning, which was also expected to perform other
statutory functions, constituted an additional problem. There was excessive centralization,
resulting in delayed resource flows to decentralized executing agencies and poor procurement
management. Accounting and financial management also continued to be weak, with substantial
delays registered in executing audits, which revealed unsatisfactory performance and uncovered
substantial ineligible expenditures amounting to over US$300,000. Chronic disbursement lags
were also experienced as a result of continuous counterpart funding shortages and the existence
of cumbersome government procurement procedures. A stand-alone project implementation unit
was created in April 1996, drawing on the positive experience of the Muyinga Agricultural
Development project.
16.   As major performance ratings slipped to unsatisfactory levels, it became obvious that
some drastic remedial action needed to be taken to adapt to the situation. Following a
supervision mission in September 1993, agreement was reached with the Borrower to restructure
the project to reduce its scope and modify management arrangements. A renewed commitment
was also obtained from the Government for diligent execution of the project and the provision of
adequate human, material and financial resources. Follow-up to this agreement was, however,
thwarted by the eruption of violence in October 1993, triggered by the assassination of the
President. After a period of lull in project activities, IDA supervision was resumed in September
1994, during which the dialogue on project restructuring and strengthening of project
management was restarted with the authorities. The Bank also supported a process of
beneficiary consultation to identify sector needs and constraints, re-evaluate the effectiveness of
agricultural services and provide a solid framework for restructuring within the context of a
crisis.
17.   Due to lack of progress in meeting financial covenants related to audits, weak
administrative and financial management structures, counterpart funding shortages, and the
consistently poor project performance in achieving results, disbursements under the Credit were
suspended on August 7, 1995. Suspension was lifted on April 5, 1996, following the fulfillment
by Borrower of conditions required to put the project on a sound implementation track.
Agreements were also reached on project restructuring to simplify the project and reduce its
scope to a level commensurate with the Borrower's diminished implementation capacity as well
as budgetary resource availability. This restructuring constituted an attempt to maintain a
scaled-down but well-focused IDA presence in the countrys agricultural sector amidst a
precarious socio-political terrain. The proposed amendment was also meant to realign the focus
of activities towards agricultural services delivery. The formalization of the project restructuring
was, however, pre-empted by the further deterioration of the political and security conditions.
The embargo and sanctions imposed by neighboring countries in mid-1996 complicated the
situation by limiting the flow of needed project inputs and resources, and rendering effective
supervision, monitoring and execution of project activities impossible. In October 1996, IDA
suspended disbursements on the entire IDA portfolio until the country restored some normalcy to
permit the resumption of activities.
18.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. For the most part, the project
has had to be implemented amidst a turbulent socio-political climate, which degenerated into
protracted crises and cycles of violence. Burundi's Third Republic, which was instituted



-7-
following a military coup in September 1987, initiated a policy of national reconciliation and
unity between the country's major ethnic groups, which gradually moved the country towards
political as well as economic liberalization. The tensions and contradictions generated by this
process, however, began to have a major impact on the pursuit of development activities,
creating a difficult operating environment for the project. Sector institutions were reorganized
and political considerations began to take precedence over technical matters. There were
outbursts of violence in 1991, 1992 and 1993, underlining the fragility of the whole process.
Since October 1993, following the assassination of the President, and the subsequent related
events in the Great Lakes region, the violence degenerated into a protracted civil war and low-
scale genocide, which have only recently attenuated. The conflict situation generated, over an
extended period of time, serious security problems, massive social dislocations, erosion of trust,
acute macro-economic imbalances, and the collapse of institutions, all of which were inimical to
effective project implementation. The embargo and sanctions imposed by neighboring countries,
in an effort to force a negotiated peace accord, further accentuated the difficulties, necessitating
the suspension of the credit.
19.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Project implementation suffered
from frequent government-induced turnover of key management staff. Moreover, counterpart
civil servants did not always have the proper background, experience and qualifications. Local
Technical Assistance expertise was poorly utilized and managed by the Government, and often
played a substitute role for public administration staff, with limited transfer of skills and
expertise. Before 1995, no suitable action was taken for reinforcing or internalizing the
ownership of the tools and instruments developed by the technical assistance, with the exception
of the participatory extension approach. Training schemes or programs proposed by the project
were consistently turned down by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, salary levels remained
low and constituted a disincentive to efficient performance, prompting frequent staff departures
from the civil service. A proposed civil service reform was aborted by the Government. The
Ministry of Agriculture was also slow in consolidating a new organigram, which was established
by a decree in mid-1993 but took more than three years to implement, thereby creating
uncertainties and leaving a fluid situation with respect to roles and relationships.
Implementation delays were also caused by counterpart funding inadequacies associated with the
diminished fiscal resource base of the state as well as a certain incoherence in the budgeting
process. Procurement delays resulting from cumbersome, centralized government procedures
led to considerable disbursement lags.
20.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Project performance
was severely hampered by an inefficient administrative management structure. Decision-making
remained excessively centralized, with provincial directorates lacking resources and
management autonomy. There continued to be problems of inter-agency coordination, especially
across ministerial divides. The human resource base of the implementation agency remained
weak, especially in the area of accounting, financial management and procurement. This caused
considerable delays in project implementation, and also occasionally resulted in procurement
problems as well as the incurring of ineligible expenditures amounting to over $300,000, which
were eventually refunded by the Government. There was a three-year audit backlog by 1995 and
most audits produced under the project were unsatisfactory.



- 8 -
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   The Agricultural Services Sector project was conceptualized as a complex hybrid
operation, supporting policy and institutional reforms as well as a multitude of investment
activities in various sub-sectors of agriculture. Its successful implementation required a strong
Borrower commitment, adequate and timely deployment of resources, strong human resources
base and managerial skills as well as careful and skilled coordination. The massive dislocations
associated with the socio-political crisis and ethnic conflict in Burundi make it unlikely that
these conditions can be fulfilled in the near future and, hence, sustainability is questionable.
Moreover, at the time of project closing, only partial progress had been made in implementing
project activities, some of which was eroded by the deleterious consequences of the conflict, thus
leaving a limited basis and platform for continuation of project activities in their present form.
22.   An additional constraining factor to project sustainability relates to the excessive
reliance on local long-term technical assistance for project execution. Public service staff made
minimal contributions, and skills and expertise transfer were limited. In general, the training
program was not executed, leaving a weak human resource base incapable of implementing
many of the project activities. In addition, constant staff redeployment did not permit the build-
up of a critical mass that would continue to manage the execution of project activities, but
resulted instead in the loss of institutional memory. The major risk identified in the SAR was the
scarcity of qualified Burundians willing to fill high-level positions on a permanent basis in the
DGPA, Provincial Services, ISABU, FAGAGRO, and MRDH. This risk element will still
constitute a binding constraint to implementation of project activities. In general, Burundi's
institutional structure and capacity has been weakened further by the deleterious consequences of
the crisis.
F.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE
23.   Three phases of Bank performance may be distinguished:  phase Ones from
identification to signature, including design, preparation and appraisal; Pase_Tw,
corresponding to supervision from signature to mid-term review; and PhaseThree supervision
from the mid-term review to project closing. Identification and preparation were quite lengthy --
taking about 5 years, from 1983 to 1987 -- due mainly to the Government's lack of commitment
to the new project concept. The Government's initial position was to multiply the RDCs and
continue implementing integrated rural development activities, which the Bank was unwilling to
support, due to the problems that had surfaced in this approach. Once these disagreements were
overcome, project preparation proceeded in earnest. The Bank could be faulted for designing a
complex hybrid operation, which would be difficult to implement given the limited
implementation capacity. Institutional arrangements for project coordination also proved
unsatisfactory. While the desire was to minimize duplication of structures and mainstream
project execution into the Borrower's existing administrative structure, it was clear that the skill
requirements and amount of effort required far exceeded the Agricultural Planning Department's
capacity, given the number of tasks and implementation agencies involved. The reliance on
technical assistance, even though this was locally derived, overestimated the Government's
capacity to manage and utilize technical assistance effectively.
24.   The supervision of the project by the Bank was not systematic during the first three years
of project execution (Phase Two). Because of the complexity of the project and the diversity of



- 9 -
its components, project supervision was organized around key project activities, such as
institution building, financial management, research and cooperative development. Supervision
missions were scattered throughout the year as it was difficult to mobilize the required technical
expertise at the same time. This stretched project management capacity, created coordination
problems, and resulted in a lack of focus as well as poor integration of efforts. Too much
attention was paid to institutional development issues to the neglect of field-level activities, and
the pertinent recommendations of the supervision missions were not followed up appropriately.
Subsequent Bank supervision efforts (Phase Three) during the second phase of project execution
focused on simplifying the project and prioritizing field-level activities, taking into account the
results of the consultations with the beneficiaries carried out at the beginning of 1995. A full-
time local staff was recruited to provide direct implementation support and ensure closer follow-
up of activities, which proved quite helpful in securing a turn-around. The concerted efforts of
the Bank and the Government resulted in improvement in the management and coordination of
the project, the restructuring of the project and the resumption of activities retained by the
modified project.
G.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
25.   Overall, the performance of the Borrower can be rated as deficient with nuances
corresponding to the different phases above. Initially, the Borrower did not assume full
ownership of the project, especially in design and preparation. During project implementation,
Government did not provide the necessary counterpart civil servants to derive maximum benefit
from technical assistance arrangements supported by the project. There were also frequent staff
redeployments which affected project performance and resulted in loss of institutional memory.
Government also failed to make available sufficient budgetary resources to meet counterpart
funding needs. The training program was not satisfactorily executed due to the reluctance of the
Ministry of Finance to give its endorsement on the grounds that it was expensive without an
integrated approach. Studies financed by the project were not adequately monitored, and in
many cases, there was no follow-up on the recommendations. Financial management was lax,
resulting in the incurring of substantial non-eligible expenditures. Following the first suspension
of the credit, there was a distinct effort by the Borrower to improve project performance and to
lay the institutional framework for effective project execution as well as strengthen ownership
and participation. This was, however, stymied by the conflict and the situation became
aggravated by the imposition of sanctions and the embargo.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.   Benefits. The project was initially designed to improve the living conditions and the
nutritional situation in project areas through better linkages between extension and research.
There were also anticipated benefits from increased cost-effectiveness of public expenditures in
the sector as well as enhanced private sector participation. The overall project outcome is
unsatisfactory because the main objectives of strengthening MOAL's analytical, programming,
budgeting and monitoring capability and strengthening agricultural research and services were
only partially achieved, a great deal of the benefits were diluted by the impact of the conflict, and
project sustainability currently remains uncertain. The original ERR estimate of 19 percent,
calculated over 70 percent of total project cost, is unattainable in the present country context.
The dislocations associated with the crisis since October 1993, including the displacement of
people, destruction of infrastructure, continuing insecurity, paralysis of the agricultural service



- 10-
delivery system, and the breakdown of the public expenditure programming process, have
considerably altered the critical variables on which these calculations were based. Given the
lack of a reliable database, and with the situation still remaining fluid and variegated, a
meaningful recalculation of the ERR is not considered feasible or useful at this stage.
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.   The scope, timetable and features of a future operation would depend on how the country
conditions evolve.  After a lengthy period of impasse, there have been some positive
developments recently, which might open up new possibilities for dialogue and reconciliation
among the various factions. It is likely that this will be protracted, and a lengthy period of time
may elapse before return to normalcy could be contemplated, which would enable resumption of
development activities. The major development challenge initially would be to resettle refugees
and displaced persons, rebuild institutional capacity and restore trust, and re-establish basic
productive capacity. It is likely that an Emergency Assistance support could be provided by the
international community during the initial period of re-engagement. This could be accompanied
or followed by dialogue and sector work to improve the knowledge base as well as actions
supporting consensus and capacity building. A pilot investment phase could be envisaged to test
the operating environment and develop appropriate approaches.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   Some of the key lessons learnt from this operation include:
(a)    Project design complexity and multiplicity of project objectives has impeded
project implementation and taxed Borrower's weak capacity as well as limiting
Bank's supervision abilities. Project design should be kept simple, and tailored
to the Borrower's absorptive and implementation capacity. Objectives should be
prioritized and focused, while activities must reflect an internal coherence and
consistency. The use of the logical framework approach could be useful in
facilitating better project design.
(b)    The role of Technical Assistance in project execution has been quite high, while
the results are less than satisfactory. The use of Technical Assistance, local or
expatriate, should not be construed as a substitute for local capacity. Technical
Assistance components and activities, where necessary, should be carefully
designed, taking into account Borrower's ability for effective management and
utilization as well as the overriding requirement for transfer of skills, capacity
building and training. A preference should be given to short-term technical
assistance.  In any case, there should be clearly defined benchmarks,
monitorable indicators and management/supervision arrangements for the TA
activities supported by projects.
(c)    Project coordination arrangements operating outside of the public service
structure may be necessary in some instances to facilitate effective project
execution. This unit's functions should be limited to overall coordination,
facilitation and management, with execution of project activities to be carried
out by established public service structures.



- 11 -
(d)    The establishment of effective accounting and financial management systems is
a necessary prerequisite for project implementation, and should receive early
attention.   Procurement, disbursement and  special account management
procedures should also be internalized by the Borrower.
(e)    Attractive salary and incentive structures are required to attract and retain high
quality staff for project execution. This should be pursued within the context of
broader civil service reforms, to avoid distortions and ensure sustainability.
(f)    Socio-political instability, conflict, and adverse political and security conditions
have an overriding impact on project outcomes. To the degree possible, country
risks in relation to these factors should be taken into account in project
designing, and appropriate risk-hedging measures should be adopted, including
early restructuring and cancellations. Project design, preparation and monitoring
processes in such context should also involve social assessments.



- 12-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2024 BU)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial   Negligible        Not Applicable
(I'll'   )                    (V')              )
Macro Policies                   Ol             E              Cl               0
Sector Policies                  0              O              3               
Financial Objectives             O              0              Cl               O
Institutional Development        0              0              Ol               El
Physical Objectives              O              Ef             Ol               Ol
Poverty Reduction                O              a              0                0
Gender Issues                    Ol             El             OE 0
Other Social Objectives          E              a              O3               0
Environmental Objectives         El             E              El               E
Public Sector Management         0              0              0                D
Private Sector Development       O              0              0l               O
Other (specify)                  E              E              E                0
B. Project Sustainability           Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
(1)                   (1)                     (1)
El                     El                      0



- 13 -
TABLE 1:    SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (cont'd)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)          (1)           (V)
Identification                          E              l           0
Preparation Assistance                  O             0            E
Appraisal                               O                          E
Supervision                             O             E0           E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)         (V)            (V)
Preparation                             O             E             Ef
Implementation                          El            0 l0
Covenant Compliance                     E             0            El
Operation (if applicable)               E             E            E
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
ElE                  0                      El



- 14-
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title           Amount   Objectives                          J Approved          Status
I(Million)l
Preceding Operations
Arabica Coffee Improvement   USD1.9     Support to Coffee Sector            08 April 1969   Completed
(Credit 1470)                           (Improvement of Arabica Coffee)
NGOZI III-Integrated - IFAD    XDR6.25    Support to Ngozi III project        Effective    Completed
(Credit 1890)                                                               07 June 1983
Coffee II                   USD5.2      Support to Coffee Sector            18 Nov. 1975    Completed
(Credit 0593)
Fisheries Development       USD6.0      Support to Fisheries Activities     20 April 1976   Completed
(Credit 0626)
Technical Assistance        USD2.5      Technical Assistance to Strengthen  24 May 1979    Completed
(Credit 0917)                           Institutional Building
Forestry                    USD4.3      Support to Forestry Development     24 May 1979    Completed
(Credit 0918)                           Project
KIRIMIRO R/D                USD19.3    Support to Kirimiro Rural            16 June 1989    Completed
(Credit 1165-BU)                        Development
INT.R/D NGOZI III           USD16.0    Support to Ngozi III Integrated Rural    08 Dec. 1981    Completed
(Credit 1192-BU)                        Development
Third TAS Credit            USD5.1      Technical Assistance to Strengthen  17 April 1984   Completed
(Credit 1456)                           Institutional Building
Second Forestry             USD12.8    Support to Second Forestry           06 July 1985    Completed
(Credit 1620)                           Development Project
Agriculture MUYINGA         USD10.0    Support to Agricultural Development    10 Dec. 1987    Completed
(Credit 1857)                           in Muyinga
APEX                        USD8.00    Support to Small Scale Enterprises at   29 March 1988   Completed
(Credit 1889)                           farm level
Following Operations
Coffee Sector               USD28.0    Support to Coffee Sector             10 April 1990   Completed
(Credit 2123-BU)
Agri-Business Promotion     XRD2.30    Support to Agri-Business Promotion   03 Sept. 1992    On-going
(Credit 2419)



- 15 -
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned                     Actual Date
Identification                                                           August 1983
Preparation                        October/November 1983           October/November 19 83
Appraisal                              September 1987             November/December 1987
Negotiations                          February 20, 1989               March 13-21 1989
Presentation to board                   May 23, 1989                    May 25, 1989
Credit signature                        July 21 1989                     July 21 1989
Credit effectiveness                    July 30, 1989                 February 20, 1990
Midterm review                          September 93                   September 1993
Project completion                      June 30, 1996                   Not Completed
Credit closing                         December 1996                   December 1996
Final disbursement                     December 1996                      April 1997



- 16-
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS -- CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Year           Appraisal Estimate              Actual Disbursements         Cumulative Actual
(US$ '000)                       (US$ '000)                as Percent of
Cumulative
l__________________________________ _________________________________   Estimate
Annual         Cumulative        Annual         Cumulative
Disbursement   Disbursements   Disbursement  Disbursements
FY 90        2800             2,800              0               0                  0
FY 91        7,300            10,100           2,010           2,010                6
FY 92        8,700            18,800           1,930           3,940                12
FY 93        5,500            24,300           1,310            5,240               16
FY 94        4,500            28,800           6,960           12,200               37
FY 95        2,600            31,400           3,630           15,830               48
FY 96        1,700            33,100            240            16,070               49
FY 97                                          5,530           21,600               65
Date of final disbursement: 24 April, 1997
Balance of US$13.3 million undisbursed



- 17-
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                                                     Estimated       Actual
Key Indicators in DCA: Schedule 4
Measures:
1. RDCs
Reorganization of RDCs'
a) Management (Buyenzi)                                Jan 31, 1990     Not done
b) Extension Services                                  Dec 31, 1992     Done
c) Garage Operations (Study)                           Apr 30, 1991     Not done
d) Road Maintenance Services                           Dec 31, 1990     Not done
2. MOAL
a) DGPA
i)  Technical Assistance                           Nov 30, 1989     Done in 90/91
ii) Junior Experts                                  Sep 30, 1989    Done in Apr 91
b) Creation ofAdministrative and Financial Service     Sep 30, 1989     Done early 1990
c) DVA -Staff appointments:                            Sep 30, 1989     Done Nov 11, 1990
i)  Technical Assistance                                            Done 90/91
ii) Junior Experts                                                  Not done
iii) Extension & Training Chiefs
d) Salary Study Completion                             Dec 31, 1989     Not done
e) Preparation of three-year PIP and PEPfor
Agricultural Sector
i)  Identification and Monitoring                  Sep 30, 1989     Not done
ii) Preparation of guidelines                      Sep 30, 1989     Not done
J)  Design of National Fertilizer Program             Sep 30, 1989 tbru   Done with delay
Dec 31, 1990
g) Reform ofAgricultural Inputs Management
i)  Unified fiscal policy for public and private sector  Sep 30, 1989  Done in June 1992
ii) Transfer of retail marketing                   Dec 31, 1993     Already done
iii) Creation of Cooperatives Promotion Committee  Sep 30, 1989     Done in 1991
iv) Design of Pest Management Program to Coops and  Jun 30, 1989    Done with delay
Private Sector
v) Design and Implementation of Seed Program        Jan 31, 1990    Done with delay
vi) Reorganization of Agricultural Research
- Study to be approved by IDA                   Dec 31, 1990    Done
vii) COOPEC Development
- Recruitment of two experts                    Sep 30, 1990    Done in 1992
- Constructions of Regional Branches           Nov 30, 1990     Not done



- 18-
TABLE 6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key Indicators for Project Operation were not available.
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
N/A               Purpose                Status           Impact of Study
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimates                 Actual/Latest Estimates
Item                         (US$ million)                         (US$ million)
Local Costs     Foreign       Total      Local       Foreign      Total
Costs                  Costs        Costs
MOAL Central Services            2.6             5.1         7.7        1.3          4.8         6.1
Regional Agricultural Services
KirimirofRDC                    2.1            3.2         5.3        0.4           0.6         1.0
Buyenzi RDC                     1.4            2.7         4.1        0.1           0.3         0.4
Rural Youth Program             0.3            0.6         0.9        0.2           0.4         0.6
Communal Development            0.3            0.6         0.9        0.0           0.0         0.0
Research                          1.5           2.1          3.6        0.3          0.4         0.8
Cooperative Development          0.9            2.5          3.4       0.1           0.1         0.2
Support to Adjustment             -             9.3          9.3       0.0           10.3        10.3
Total Baseline Costs             9.1            26.1        35.2       5.0           14.3        19.3
Physical Contingencies           0.7             1.2         1.9        0.4          0.7         1.1
Price Contingencies              0.9            2.0          2.9        0.5          1.1         1.6
Total Project Costs              10.7           29.3        40.0        5.9          16.1        22.0



- 19-
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimates                Actual/Latest Estimates
(US$ million)                       (US$ million)
Source
Local Costs   Foreign      Total    Local Costs   Foreign       Total
Costs                               Costs
Government          4.2         1.1         5.4         5.4          1.2         6.6
IDA              6.4        26.7         33.1        5.3         15.93       21.23
FAC/EDF             -          0.4         0.4          0.1         0.4         0.5
Belgium Assistance     -           0.8         0.8         0.12        0.48         0.6
COOPEC             0.1         0.2         0.3         0.15        0.25         0.4
TABLE 9:    ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The original ERR estimate of 19 percent, calculated over 70 percent of total project cost, is unattainable
in the present country context. The dislocations associated with the crisis since October 1993, including
the displacement of people, destruction of infrastructure, continuing insecurity, paralysis of the
agricultural service delivery system, and breakdown of public expenditure programming process, have
considerably altered the critical variables on which these calculations were based. Given the lack of a
reliable database, and with the situation still remaining fluid and variegated, a meaningful recalculation
of the ERR is not considered feasible or useful at this stage.



- 20 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Credit      Covenant   Present              Description of Covenant                Comments
Agreement       Type        Status
Section
3.01 (a)        4          CD      The Borrower declares its commitment to     Complied with;
objectives of the Project as set forth in Sched. 2 &    however, there were
shall cary out the project through MOAL with due  some problems with
diligence & efficiency & in conformity with  Government efficiency
appropriate administrative financial & agricultural  and resource
practice & shall provide promptly funds, facilities,  availability.
services and other resources required by the
project.
3.01 (b)        5          CD      Without limitation upon the provision of para (a)   Complied with some
of this section and except as the Borrower and the   delays.
Association shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
3.02 (a)        9           C      The Borrower and Association shall from time to    Complied with.
time and in any case not later than Sept. 30 of each
year, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified
in Sched. 6 of this Agreement.
3.02 (b)        9          CP      Prior to each such exchange of views as specified   Project
in para. (a) of this section, the Borrower shall  implementation start
furnish to the Association for its review and  was delayed. First PIP
comments: (i) detailed progress report of program  and PEP produced
achievements; (ii) the revised 3-yr. rolling  only for 93-95, with a
Program. of Investments & Public Expenditures    delay. No progress
for MOAL & MRDH with terms & conditions     report produced yet.
satisfactory to the Association.
3.02 (c) (i)      5          C      During the exchange of views taking place no later  Transfer completed.
than Sept. 30, 1990, the Borrower & Association    Transfer of extension
shall also: (i) with respect to extension staff  services from RDC to
working in 5 provinces within Butenzi & Kirimiro,  MOAL has been
assess progress made in their transfer to the  implemented
DGVA.



- 21 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant  Present                Description of Covenant                   Comments
Agreement       Type        Status
Section
3.02 (C) (ii)       5       CP        During the exchange of views taking place no later    New system now being
than Sept. 30, 1990, the Borrower & Association  put in place with some
shall also: (ii) review the achievements of the new  difficulties.
extension methodology, & more specifically the links
between research & extension.
During the exchange of views taking place no later    Complied with.
than Sept. 30, 1990, the Borrower and shall also: (ii)
3.02 (C) (iii)     5       C          review the proposals on the new salary system for
agricultural services personnel.
During the exchange of views taking place no later    A mission to redesign
than Sept. 30, 1990, the Borrower & Association  the cooperative
shall also: (iv) assess the performance of MRDH's    development
3.02 (c) (iv)       5       C         Cooperative Department in providing efficient  component has taken
(v)                                   services to cooperatives; (v) review the progress in    place. The component
establishing a national federation of cooperatives.  will focus on working
with NGOs.
3.02 (d)            5      NC         Prior to the exchange of views specified in para. (c)   Not yet complied with.
of this Section, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association a study on salary & benefit policy for
agricultural services personnel satisfactory to the
Association.
3.03                6       C         In the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the  The Borrower has
Borrower shall apply the principles on procurement,  requested the assistance
transportation, storage and disposal of pesticides set   of FAO.
forth in the national regulation on pesticide usage to
be formulated in accordance with paragraph I of Part
B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.



- 22 -
TABLE 10:   STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant   Present               Descripion of Covenant                    Comments
Agreement       Type        Status
Section
3.04           4       CF         The Borrower shall include the costs of provincial    Costs included in 93-95
agricultural services under Part C of the Project in    PEP. Difficulties are
the rolling programs under Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of    being encountered by
this Agreement & without limitation upon the  Borrower in meeting its
generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement with  fnancial obligations.
regard to the provision of funds, shall sustain such
costs in their entirety not later than January 1995.
3.05 (a)         5       C         In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the  Complied with.
Borrower shall: (a) not later than Dec. 31, 1992,
transfer to DVG the technical oversight of the
extension staff working in the 5 provinces within
Buyenzi and Kirimiro.
3.05 (b)        5       C          In order to carry out Part C of the Project the  Complied with.
Borrower shall: (b) maintain or cause the RDCs of
Buyenzi & Kirimiro to maintain, all extension staff
working in the 5 provinces within those areas in
their employment status as of the date of this
Agreement, until the earlier of (i) Dec. 31, 1992; or
(ii) the date of transfer of admin. & fnancial
responsibility over such extension staff.
3.05 (c)        5       CP         In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the  Study not yet submitted
Borrower shall: (c) no late than April 1991 submit a  but garages have been
study satisfactory to the Association on RDCs  leased to private
garage Operations                             businessmen.
3.5 (d)         3       C          In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the  Complied with. The
Borrower shall: (d) no later than Dec. 31, 1991  Board of Directors of the
cause the RDC-Buyenzi to (i) have Ngozi/Kirundo    Buyenzi RDC has
rice mills managed as separate commercial and  decided to privatize the
financial entities; & (ii) implement recommen-  rice mills.
dations of the action plan under para.2 of Part A of
Sched. 6 for the transfer of Ngozi/Kirundo rice mills
to the private sector or for their liquidation.



- 23 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant   Present               Description of Covenant                 Comments
Agreement       Type        Status
Section
3.5 (e)            3        NC        In order to carry out Part C of the Project the  Not yet complied with.
Borrower shall: (e) starting no later than Jan. 1,
1992 sustain among others out of the profit margin
on the sales of livestock drugs, the non-salary
operating expenses of livestock agents in the 5
provinces of the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro.
3.6                3        C         Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  Complied with
procurement of the goods, works & consultant's
services to be financed under the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/audits                             6 = Environmental covenants
2 = Financial performance/revenue               7 = Involuntary resettlement
3 = Flow & utilization of project funds         8 = Indigenous people
4 = Counterpart funding                         9 = Project Implementation not covered by 1-9
5 = Management aspects
Status:
CW     = Complied With                          PCW   = Partially Complied With
NCW   = Not Complied With                       NYD   = Not Yet Due
CD     = Compliance after delay



- 24 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title          IDescribe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
There was compliance with the applicable
Bank Operational Manual Statements
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual
Weeks         US$ ('000)
Preparation to Appraisal                  100.9           218.0
Appraisal                                  58.7           135.9
Negotiation through Board - Effectiveness  24.4            62.6
Supervision                               191.8           537.1
Completion                                24.5            24.5
Total                                     400.3           978.1



-25 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of        Month/    No. of   Days    Specialization    Implemen   Development          Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   in          Staff Skills     -tation     Objectives      Problems
Field    Represented        Status
Identification  Oct 82
Sep 82
Apr 83
May893       4        4
Jul 83      2        7
Preparation     Oct 83       4        4       A-AE-ES-AF
Nov 83       2                   A-ES
May 84       2       28          A-AE
Jul 84      1        3            A
Oct 84      2        7          A-FA
Mar 85       3       3         AE-E-ES
Apr 85       1       10           ES
Feb 86       6       15     A-ES-AE-FA-E
Sep 86      4        10       A-AE-E-FA
Nov 86       2       15         AE-FA
Mar 87       2       15         AE-ES
Pre-Appraisal    Jun 87       6       28     AE-FA-ES-SPS
Appraisal       Dec 87        8       33      A-AE-FA-ES
Post-Appraisal   Jun 88       1       14          AE
Supervision     Mar 89        1       7           AE
Jun 89       1       4           AE
Sep 89       2       7          AE-FA
Nov 89       1       12           AE
Supervision     Feb 90        1       10          AE              NR           NR           LC-M-F-I
Mar 90       1       10           AE              2             2            M-F-I
May 90       6       17      AE-E-FA-ES          NR            NR         LC-M-F-T-T
Oct 90       1       12          AE              NR           NR               I
Supervision     Feb 91        1       12          FA              NR           NR              I-T
Mar 91       3       16       AE-ES-FA            2             2           M-F-I-T
Sept 91      2       18         AE-FA             2             2             M-T
Oct 91      2        7          AE-FA             2            2            LC-M-T
Nov 91       1       10           AE              2             2              I-T
Supervision     Apr 92       3       20        AE-FA-ES            2            2           LC-M-F-I
May 92       1       7            FA             NR            NR              I-T
Jul 92      1        7            E              NR           NR              M-I
Apr 92       1       15           AE              2             2            I-M-T
Nov 92       1       15          RDS              2             2              T
Dec 92       2       25         AE-ES            NR            NR            M-I-T



- 26 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS (cont'd)
Stage of       Month/   No. of   Days    Specialization    Implemen   Development    Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   in        Staff Skills    -tation     Objectives     Problems
Field    Represented       Status
Supervision     Jan 93      4       20      ES-CS-E-AE          2            2          LC-M-F-I
May 93       1      21           ES            NR           NR             M-I
Jul 93      1       5          RDS              2            2           M-I-T
Sep 93      1       19          FA              3            2         LC-M-F-I-T
Supervision   Sep 94        4       21   E-OA-OO               HU           HU          M-l-F-T
Dec 94       4       13   AE-RDS-OO             HU            U           M-I-F-T
Supervision   Mar 95        5       12   E-FA-AE-ES            NR           NR          M-I-F-T
Jun 95       4       21   DC-E-AE-OA             U            U           M-l-F-T
Nov. 95       3       7    FA-E-AE               NR           NR          M-I-F-T
Supervision   Feb 96        6       10   PE-E-FA-OA-LA          U            U
June 96       2       9    E-AE                  U            U
Key to Specialized Staff Skills:
FA   =  Financial Analyst       SFO  =  Small Farmer Organization
E    =  Economist               CS   =  Cooperation Specialist
A    =  Agronomist              OA   =  Operation Analyst
DC  =  Division Chief           RDS  =  Rural Development Specialist
ES    =  Extension Specialist
Key to Types Of Problems:
M    =  Management              I   =  Institutional
P    =  Procurement             NI  =  None Identified
F    =  Funding                 LC  =  Legal Covenant Compliance
T    =  Technical



- 27 -
ANNEX A
COMPARISON OF THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
(CR. 2024-BU)
WIT THE MUYINGA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1857-BU)
1.    The Agricultural Services Sector Project (Cr. 2024-BU) and the Muyinga Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 1857-BU) have many common points: (i) the projects had similar
objectives with the Agricultural Services Sector Project having an extended geographic scope
covering several regions; (ii) the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the two projects
were carried out in parallel with a little more than one year of difference between the two; and
(iii) the Muyinga project served as a pilot for the Agricultural Services Sector Project.
2.    The following components were inherent in the two projects:
(a)   A new Approach to Extension. A new extension approach - The Participative
Approach to Agricultural Extension - was successfully developed in the
Muyinga project from 1991 onwards and was expanded to cover Gitega, one of
the provinces covered by the Agricultural Services Sector Project.  This
approach differed from the usual Training and Visit approach in that it involved
the participation of the beneficiaries in the identification of the problems and in
the decision-making process. The socio-political crisis which occurred in 1993
did not allow for the new extension approach to be used across the country as
had been hoped.
(b)   Management System. From 1993 onwards, the Muyinga project, with the
support of short-term technical assistance, put into place a reliable and efficient
management system which was carried out by the national agents of the
project's financial and administrative service. From the beginning of 1996, the
developed this system for the rest of the country.
(c)   Monitoring and Evaluation. A system of Monitoring and Evaluation, based
essentially on the effects and impact of the agricultural services (extension,
research), was tested and developed in Muyinga in 1991 and 1992. In 1993, this
system should have been consolidated and progressively extended to the rest of
the country under the Agricultural Services Sector Project. Unfortunately, this
did not happen due to the difficulties arising from the country's crisis in October
1993.
3.    The Muyinga project played the role of pilot but the methods and approaches introduced
in its context were not effectively reproduced for the rest of the country in the context of the
Agricultural Services Sector Project. This is mainly due to the deteriorating country situation
(insecurity, embargo, suspension of projects financed by IDA) than by the failure of the methods
and approaches themselves. However, the new extension approach, monitoring and evaluation
methods were effectively being adapted in the Agricultural Services Sector Project during 1996
before they were stopped by the suspension of IDA projects and the closure of the project.



- 28 -
ANNEX B
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION RELATIVE AU RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
DU PROJET D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES -PASA- (Cr. 2024-BU)
1.    Une Mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de Messieurs Mansur Muhtar (Charge de
Projet au siege) et Prosper Nindorera (Charge des Operations a la Mission Residente) a sejourn6
au Burundi du 15 mai au 19 mai 1997. La Mission avait pour objet d'une part de presenter le
projet de rapport de fin d'execution du Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (PASA, Cr.2024-
BU) pour discussion aux autorites et d'autre part de raffermir le dialogue entre le Gouvemement
et la Banque concemant le secteur agricole.
2.    La mission remercie Monsieur le Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage, Monsieur le
Ministre de la Planification du Developpement et de la Reconstruction, les Directeurs Gdneraux
du Ministere de l'Agriculture, le Directeur Gdn6ral du Plan et les differents cadres des
Ministeres de l'Agriculture, des Finances et du Plan rencontres pour l'excellent accueil qu'ils lui
ont r6serve, pour leur disponibilite, leur collaboration ainsi que pour leur enrichissante
contribution aux discussions.
Le projet de rapport de fin d'execution a etd revu et discute au cours d'une r6union a laquelle
6tait represente l'ensemble des services ayant participe a l'execution du PASA. Quelques
anciens cadres du projet ayant aujourd'hui d'autres fonctions avaient ete invit6s a cette reunion.
Les Ministeres des Finances et du Plan avaient 6galement delegues des representants. Outre
cette reunion, la mission a eu des entretiens avec des personnes ayant eu par le passe une part
active dans la vie du projet.
4.    De l'avis des participants a la reunion sus-cit6e comme de l'avis des autres personnes
consultees, 1'6valuation du Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles ressortant du rapport de fin
d'execution reflete bien les realisations, les exp6riences, les difficultes comme les acquis du
projet. Cependant quelques differences d'appreciation quant a la portee de l'un ou I'autre facteur
ont ete constatees, ainsi que quelques omissions qui meritent d'etre relevees. Ces nuances et
omissions seront prises en consideration dans la version r6visee du rapport de fin d'execution, ils
concement principalement les points suivants:
(a)   Intemalisation et appropriation du PASA. Bien qu'il se soit ecoule pres de sept
ans entre l'identification et la mise en vigueur, le nouveau concept de projet,
passant de I'approche de projets regionaux de developpement integres a un
projet sectoriel agricole, la reorganisation des services agricoles et les nouvelles
approches en matiere de vulgarisation et de recherche n'etaient connus et
maitris6s que par un petit noyau de personnes. Ce petit noyau fut en grande
partie disloque avant la fin de la deuxieme annee d'ex6cution du projet. En
raison de ce fait les mesures et la r6alisation des activites du projet etaient
souvent mal comprises et ex6cutees ou realisees de maniere imparfaite, le plus
souvent avec des retards importants.
(b)    Gestion et coordination du projet. La forte centralisation de la gestion et la
mauvaise comprehension du concept de coordination ont porte un pr6judice tres
important au projet. Cette coordination inaddquate et peu performante a retarde



- 29 -
et meme tres souvent lourdement handicape la realisation des activit6s sur le
terrain notamment en matiere de vulgarisation et de recherche.
(c)    Effets de la crise. Le projet de rapport a surevalue les effets de la crise sur le
projet, bien que ceux-ci n'en demeurent pas moins importants. Les problemes
majeurs et les limites du PASA etaient manifestes avant la crise, ils avaient
d'ailleurs e  clairement identifies par la Banque comme par des services du
Gouvernement au courant de I'annee 1993. La resolution de ces problimes ou
du moins l'engagement des mesures visant a les resoudre a pris des delais tres
importants. Ces retards peuvent etre en partie imputes a la crise que le Burundi
a connu A partir d'octobre 1993.
(d)    Les capacites nationales. II a e  soulign6 que les capacites nationales qui
auraient pu permettre une mise en oeuvre efficace du projet existaient. Les
probl'emes et les difficult6s imputes a la faiblesses de ces capacites sont plutot la
cons6quence d'un manque d'internalisation et appropriation du projet par les
services intervenant dans son execution, ainsi que le resultat de l'incapacite de
l'administration a pouvoir attirer et plus encore a pouvoir retenir les homologues
et les cadres les plus dynamiques.
(e)    Les acquis du projet. Certaines reussites non negligeables du PASA ont ete
sous-6valu6es ou omises. II s'agit entre autre des points suivants: (a) les acquis
de la recherche sur la fertilisation; (b) la privatisation des Sogestals et des
activites de decorticage du riz; (c) la promotion de l'expertise nationale.
5.     La Mission s'est entretenue avec le Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage sur les
questions touchant l'evolution, au cours de ces demiers mois, du secteur agricole. Bien que
l'embargo ait limite les possibilites de developpement, le comportement de ce secteur ces
derniers mois est assez remarquable. L'amelioration de la securite dans la majeure partie du
pays, les efforts des agriculteurs burundais et des conditions climatiques, jusqu'A ce jour, assez
favorables permettent d'envisager une production agricole pour la saison B 1997 (Fevrier-Juin)
nettement sup6rieure aux resultats de la m8me saison l'annee pass6e.
6.     Le Ministre de l'Agriculture a souhait6 que ces efforts puissent 8tre appuyes par la
Banque. A court terme, le Gouvernement du Burundi a besoin d'une assistance d'urgence en
matiere d'intrants agricoles pour renforcer la relance des activit6s agricoles. Un accent
particulier devrait 8tre port6, d'une part A l'assistance aux populations deplac6es et regroup6es
pour leur permettre de travailler leurs terres ou celles mises a disposition et d'autre part a
l'acquisition d'engrais (au moins 1.500 T) pour la saison agricole A 98 (Septembre 97- Janvier
98) et de quelques semences. A plus long terme, le Gouvernement souhaite que les reflexions
qu'il a engag6es sur la reactualisation de la strat6gie de secteur puissent etre partag6es avec la
Banque et que ce dialogue puisse jeter les bases pour la preparation d'une nouvelle operation qui
du souhait du Ministre de l'Agriculture pourrait 8tre mise oeuvre des le d6but de 1998.
7.     Le Ministre a informe la mission que la dimunition des ressources budgetaires
contraignent le Gouvernement a r6organiser les services agricoles pour les reduire a une taille
qui soit compatible avec les moyens du pays. Les effectifs des services agricoles seront reduits
de plus 35 %, principalement en raison la reduction de 50% des postes d'encadreur de base.
Pour pallier aux effets negatifs de cette coupe des effectifs, le Gouvernement compte d6velopper



- 30 -
un nouveau mode d'interface avec les exploitants agricoles sur les collines, en recourant aux
services de volontaires individuels ou en faisant appel a des associations ou en groupements
d'exploitants agricoles pour vulgariser les messages et nouvelles techniques. Enfin le Ministre a
tenu a mettre en exergue les 6volutions politiques positives tant sur le plan exteme avec la levee
partielle de 1'embargo que sur le plan interne avec l'engagement des pourparlers avec toutes les
composantes et sensibilites politiques du pays.
8.     La Mission s'est rejouie de ces d6veloppements positifs. Certaines des mesures prises
aujourd'hui avaient e   preconis6es durant le projet, mais elles n'avaient pas rencontre
I'assentiment du Gouvernement. II a et rappele la disposition de la Banque a participer
activement aux reflexions engag&es autour de la reactualisation de la strat6gie agricole. La
Mission a toutefois tenu a faire observer que dans les circonstances presentes, il etait tres
pr6mature d'envisager le lancement d'une nouvelle operation classique et ce qui plus est dans les
d6lais souhaites par le Gouvernement.
9.     La Mission a r6affirme au Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage la volonte de la
Banque de soutenir le Gouvernement dans ses efforts visant la reconstruction, la rehabilitation et
la reconciliation nationale des que les conditions le permettront. La Banque envisage de
renforcer les activites concernant la mise a jour de la connaissance de 1'evolution du secteur et la
reactualisation de la strategie agricole cette derniere devant 8tre batie sur un large consensus.
Des actions d'investissement concretes dans le secteur pourraient etre envisagees a travers le
Projet d'Actions Sociales, en matiere d'appui aux groupements de multiplication de semences et
de construction de r6habilitation micro-projets d'infrastructures d'agriculture et d'e1evage
appartenant ou g6rees par beneficaires eligibles au titre de ce projet. Au fur et a mesure des
nouveaux developpements positifs, il pourra etre initie des actions et de petits projets pilotes
pouvant etre ulterieurement agrandis et reproduits a grande 6chelle. L'ensemble de cette
strat6gie sera entreprise en partenariat avec d'autres bailleurs de fonds et en faisant intervenir
dans leur execution des les communautes de base et les b6neficiaires eux-memes, les O.N.G. et
les P.M.E..
10.    Enfin la Mission a demand6 aux autorit6s d'accelerer et conclure des que possible leur
propre rapport d'evaluation du Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles. Ce rapport aurait du
constituer un des elements du rapport de fin d'execution, si sa redaction avait pu etre conduite de
maniere plus ou moins simultan6e avec le rapport de la Banque. La mission a informe ses
interlocuteurs que la version r6visee du rapport de fin d'execution du PASA leur sera soumise
pour commentaires.






IMAGING
Report No:           1 643
Type:      ICR



