Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 7557-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Tlhis doeument has a rescted disbudon and may be used by reciients only in the perfomance of
their offic6l duties Its contents may not othewse be disclosed witbout World Bnk at on



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -    Burundi Franc (FBu)
US $1.00                 FBu 155
FBu  100            8    US $ 0.645
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                   British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   -    3.28 feet (ft.)
. cubic meter (m3)                 35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) - 100 ares     -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              8    0.624 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.386 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)               -    2.20 pounds (lb.)
1 liter (1)                   -    0.26 U.S. gallon (gal.)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m t)            =    2,204 pounds (lb.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCC                 Burundi Coffee Company
CICK           -    Centre International du Credit Mutuel
COOPEC         -    Credit and Savings Cooperatives
DGPA                Direction Generale de la Planification Agricole
IDA            X    International Development Association
ISABU               National Research Institute/Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Burundi
GOB                 Government of Burundi
FACAGRO        -    Faculty of Agronomy
MIDTE               Ministry of Land Tenure Development, Tourism and
Environment
MOAL           -   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MRDH           =   Ministry of Rural Development and Handicraft
RDC            8    Regional Development Company
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary.......................................... i-iii
I.        BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background...                                      1
D.  Economic and Agricultural Settingt.......                  2
C.  Sector In        st l t u t i o n s                        4
D.  Sector Performance...ro...         m a nc...e... ...............   6
E. Sector Financial Issues..   8
F. Sector Strategy ..................,                        10
II.       IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Previous and Ongoing Bank Group Involvement.............  11
B.  Performance of Ngozi III and Kirimiro Projects.........  12
III.      THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICY
A.  General Description.......................  14
B. The Policy Component.... ... .........      ............  16
IV.       THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives ....................................  21
B.  General Description ...................................  22
C.  Description of Project Components .....................  23
D. Project Costs ......................................... 31
S. Financing ........................ 33
F . Procurement . . . . . . . . . .          . . . . ... ... 34
G.                              Dibreet ..................36
H. Accounts and Audits ............................ .......   37
I. Environmental Impact   ...... .....................  37
V.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management..........................*.  38
B.  Programming, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation .....  41
This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Burundi in
December 1987 comprising Messrs. Jean-Francois Barras, Ousmane Sissoko,
Ivor Serejski, Lorenz Pohlmeier (Bank), Ms. Bernadette Guyon-Benoite and M.
Jean Besson, Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI.       BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  MOAL Strengthening and RDC Reorganization .............  43
B.  Cooperative Development Program-. ....................     44
C. Economic Analysis.... ...... ...          ..... ......... ..  44
D. Beneficiaries .....                   ....... o4*.................... 45
E. Risks*** .... ............ o.o................ ......... 46
VII.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.  Agreements Reached at Negotiations ...................  47
B.  Conditions of Effectiveness ...........................    48
C.  Conditions of First Tranche Release .......       ......  48
D.  Conditions of Second Tranche Release..................  49
E.  Conditions of Disbursement .................. ...........  49
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
Table 1.  Price Contingencies .....  .......................... 31
Table 2. Project Cost Summary ................. . ............... * 32
Table 3. Financing Plan....................... .. ........                33
Table 4.  Procurement Table..o. ..... .... .       ... .......            34
SUPPORTING ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Annexes
Annex  1 - Project Area................... .. ............. ..... 51
Annex  2 - COOPEC.......oooo................. *es .............. 52
Annex  3,  Appendix 1 - Costs of Project Components .............    54
Appendix 2 - Sumary Accounts per Year ............... 55
Appendix 3 - Financing Plan by Project Components .... 56
Annex  4,  Appendix 1 - Civil works, vehicles and equipment ..... 57
Appendix 2 -Procurement Method ...................... 58
Appendix 3 -Technical Assistance..** .....               59
Appendix 4 - Disbursement Tab1el e..o......              60
Appendix 5 - Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements. 61
Annex 5    Appendix 1 - Imports of Agricultural Inputsu....t....  62
Appendix 2 - Salary Adjustment Kirimiroi....... ooooe   63
Appendix 3 - Salary Adjustment Buyenzien........*....  64
Appendix 4 - Operating Costs of Agricultural Services 65
Annex 6  - Implementation Schedule .............. o................ 68
Annex 7  - Economic Analysis ..... .0 ... ... .................... .  70
Annex 8,  Appendix 1 - Project Impact on Public Expenditures ... 74
Appendix 2 - Government Cash Flow ................... . 75
Annex 9  - Program - Budgets.....***..         ......................... 76
Annex 10 - Selected Data and Documents available in the
Project Vile .................................................... 77



CHARTS
1.  MOAL Organization Chart..... .7.8......*.. ........ *........ . 78
2.  Buyenzi RDC Organization Chart............................. 79
3.  Kirimiro RDC Organization Chart............................ 80
4.  Ministry of Rural Development and Handicraft............... 81
5.   ISABU Organization Chart.................................... 82
MAP
IBRD 20866 - Project Area



BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowert                 Republic of Burundi
Beneficiaries:            Farmers in the Ngozi, Kayanza, Gitega, Muramvya,
and Karuzi Provinces. Savings and Credit
Cooperatives, Buyensi and Kirimiro RDCs and the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL),
and of Rural Development and Handicraft (MRDH).
Amount:                   SDR 25.1 million (US$ 33.1 million equivalent) of
which SDR 7.04 million (US$9.3 million) of quick
disbursing funds.
Terms:                    Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:      The project objectives are to: (i) develop MOAL's
analytical and long term programming and
budgeting capability, and sector management
capacity; (ii) design and establish a national
extension system based on regular continuous
training and two way link with research, capable
of responding to farmers' needs and constraints,
and of developing technologies adapted to the
various ecological and farming systems;
(iii) Improve efficiency while reducing the
financial costs of agricultural services through
reorganization of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs; and
(iv) promote sustainable agricultural input
delivery, food crop marketing and agricultural
credit systems through support to the national
agricultural input policy and promotion of the
private sector and cooperatives. The project
would be implemented over a five-year period and
would consist of a hybrid operation composed of a
policy component and an investment component.
The policy component would focus on:
(a) reforming the agricultural input policy;
(b) reorganization of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs;
(c) reforming the salary structure of MOAL's
staff. The investment component would comprise s
(a) Strengthening of MOAt's Central Services
(i) strengthening of MOAt's Planning Directorate;
(ii) creation of a Financial and Administrative
Unit, and, (iii) Strengthening of MOAL'. General
Directorate for Extension; (b)  StrenRtheninR of
aaricultural research through: (i) strengthening



- ii -
of the phytosanitary control service in ISABU;
(ii) support to a National Fertilizer Research
Program; (iil) preparation of reorganization of
agricultural research; (c) Reorxanization and
strenathenina of rexional agricultural services
through: (i) reorganization and strengthening of
extension services in 5 provinces under Buyenzi
and Kirimiro RDCs; (ii) carrying out, with the
support of ISAdU a program of adaptive and on-
farm research in the five provinces;
(iii) carrying out a staff training program;
(iv) strengthening of livestock services in
Buyenzi and Kirimiro; (v) support to land
protection and development; (d) Manatement of RDC
Reorganization through (i) strengthening of RDC's
promotion activities; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation; (e) Promotion of rural youth
emologment in the provinces of Ngozi and
Muramvya; (f) Preparation of pilot communal
development plans in the provinces of Ngozi and
Muramvya; (g) Strenathenint of the cooperative
movement through: (i) support to MRDH's
Cooperative Department in the promotion of an
autonomous cooperative movement; (ii) support to
Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC).
Benefits and Risks:      The project is expected to Improve the living
conditions, the nutritional situation in five
provinces inhabited by about 35X of Burundi's
population through a reorientation of extension
and adaptive research towards farLers' needs.
The needs of the growing number of small marginal
farms, young farmers (school leavers) and of
women farmers would receive special attention.
The reorganization of Government's interventions
in the agricultural sector would improve the
cost-effectiveness of public expenditures,
improve the quality of sub-sectoral programs and
create favorable conditions for a growing
involvement of the pri'iate sector and
cooperatives in commercial activities. The rate
of return on fertilizer promotion, rice
development and pest control has been estimated
at 19X. The project's success would depend on
the continuity of the GOB's nolitical commitment
toward the agricultural sector as part of its
policy of reconciliation and national unity.



- iii -
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local    Foreign        Total
--US$ million--------
MOAL Central Services                           2.6       5.1              7.7
Regional Agricultural Services
Kirimiro RDC                              2.1        3.2             5.3
Buyenzi RDC                               1.4        2.7             4.1
Rural Youth program                       0.3        0.6             0.9
Communal Development                      0.3        0.6             0.9
Research                                        1.5       2.1             3.6
Cooperative Development                         0.9       2.5             3.4
Support to Adjustment                            -        9.3             9.3
Total Baseline Costs                            9.2      26.0            35.2
Physical Contingencies                          0.7       1.2             1.9
Price Contingencies                             0.9       2.0             2.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 11                         10.7      29.3            40.0
Financing Plan                            Local        Foreign          Total
---------US$ million -----------
Government 2/                                  4.2        1.1             5.4
IDA                                            6.4       26.7            33.1
FACIEDF                                         -         0.4             0.4
Belgium Assistance                              -         0.2             0.8
COOPEC                                         0.1        0.2             0.3
l
1/ Include direct taxes of about US$1.2 million
21 Include the US$1.2 million in taxes
Estimated Disbursements                       (USS million)
IDA Fiscal Year   1990    1991       1992     1993    1994      1995      1996
Annual            2.8     7.3       8.7      5.5      4.5      2.6       1.7
Cumulative          2.8    10.1      18.8     24.3    28.8      31.5      33.1
Rate of Return: 19% (on 70 percent of total project costs).



BURUINDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Prolect Backaround
1.01     The proposed project would be the first operation in the agricultural
sector, of a new generation of IDA interventions aimed at improving
agricultural services nationwide while alleviating the financial burden on
Government in line with the structural adjustment program. The project would
strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the Ministry of Rural
Development and Handicraft, reorganize two Regional Development Companies
(RDC) previously involved in the implementation of IDA-financed rural
integrated projects and support the adjustment of agricultural input and
agricultural staff salary policies.
1.02     The design of this project has contributed to mold the evolution of
the agricultural sector dialogue between the Government of Burundi and IDA.
When identified by IDA in 1982, the project's initial concept of national
services strengthening was not accepted by the GOB, who was at that time
!            strongly attached to its area-based Regional Companies strategy whose cost and
performances were at that time insufficiently assessed.  Since then, much
progress has been made. Faced with serious imbalances, in late 1984, the
Government requested that the Bank and the IMF assist with the preparation of
an economic reform program aimed at restoring financial equilibrium in the
short-term, while initiating medium-and long term structural change. A number
of measures of the first (1986) and second (1988) structural adjustment
credits concerned the agricultural sector. The principles underlying these
measures have been further developed by the new Government's Sector Policy
Paper which addresses key sectoral issues and constitutes the framework for
adjustment of the agricultural sector in line with the overall program.
During a post-appraisal mission in May 1988, the proposed operation was
transformed into a hybrid consisting of (i) a policy component which would
support the reform of the agricultural sector input policy, a reorganization
of the Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs, and a reform of agricultural staff salary
structure; and (ii) an investment component focusing on strengthening sectoral
resource management capability and agricultural research, and reorganizing
agricultural services at central and provincial levels. Investments and
further policy measures in the coffee sub-sector will be included in a
subsequent project, currently under preparation. Project processing was
interrupted by the ethnic based social violence which erupted in August 1988
in the north of the country. It resumed after IDA was satisfied that
Government was taking the necessary steps to bring the situation back to
normal and reaffirmed its determination to continue and expand upon its
policies of reconciliation to overcome the country's ethnic divisions. To
assist Government's efforts, a special program to promote rural youth



- 2 -
employment and involve the communes in rural development has been added to the
project.
B. Economic and Agricultural Setting
1.03     Burundi is a small, landlocked country in East-Central Africa.  Its
GNP per capita, estimated at about US$250 (1987), ranks among the lowest in
the continent. With a population of about 5 million, Burundi has the second
highest population density in the world estimated at 170 persons per square
kilometer. Burundi is relatively well endowed for agriculture; although it
has soils of mediocre fertility, the climate varies broadly among the
country's natural regions (IBRD Map 20008) and permits year round cropping.
Although the soils of Burundi are among the poorest in Africa in terms of
acidity and nutrient content, they support one of the most intensive and
productive agriculture in the African continent. Population growth (3 percent
per annum projected for the 1985-2000 period) is high. Despite the high
demographic pressure on already constrained land, migration to the urban
centers has been limited with urban population accounting for only 5 percent
of total population. The country has limited natural resources. Identified
minerals include nickel, phosphate, petroleum, vanadium, some fluvial gold and
calcium, but it is not clear whether exploitation is economically justified.
1.04     Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity; it
accounts for about 50 percent of GDP and more than 90 percent of the
population live in rural areas, depending directly on agriculture for their
livelihood, on average farm size of about only 0.7 ha. of usabl' land. The
most important export crop in this largely subsistence-dominated sector is
coffee, which on average accounts for more than 75 percent of exports
earnings. Burundi is one of the few African countries which is self-
sufficient in food (at least for the most popular staples). The secondary
sector is still small, accounting for about 13 percent of GDP and 10 percent
of exports. The private sector, while small in terms of total fixed
investments (15 percent) plays a major role in agricultural production and
trade. The public sector dominates manufacturing (including coffee
processing), energy and infrastructure, with the parastatal sector
contributing half of formal employment. Landlocked Burundi is vulnerable to
transportation conditions in neighboring countries. Although progress has
been made in recent years, transportation costs to and from the Indian Ocean
remain very high and account for 60 percent of the border price of
fertilizers.
1.05     Average annual production of major food crops is estimated at
1,200,000 tons of bananas, 280,000 tons of beans, 470,000 tons of cassava,
512,000 tons of sweet potatoes, 150,000 tons of maize and 53,000 tons of
sorghum and millet. Rice was introduced relatively recently and production
has climbed steadily to a current level of 20,000 tons of paddy per year. So
far, food production has kept up with population growth, with occasional
seasonal and regional protein-calorie intake deficiencies. The main cash
crops are coffee, tea, cotton, palm oil and tobacco. Coffee is most important
for the national economy and although coffee trees cover only 5 to 10 percent
of individual holdings where coffee is grown, it is the principal source of
cash income for many farmers. Although annual coffee production fluctuates,
the underlying production trend is rising, from an average of 13,215 tons in



the 1963-1967 period to 29,743 tons in the 1983-87 period. Tea is also
becoming important with production rising to 4,500 tons in 1987 following
improvements in processing and quality, factors which have resulted in top
prices being fetched at international auctions. After declining to 5,000 tons
in the early 80's, cotton production was about 8,000 tons in 1987. The animal
population is estimated at about 600,000 Ankole cattle and 1,200,000 small
ruminants.
1.06     Farming practices are traditional.  Small quantities of manure and
compost are applied and demand for fertilizer is limited (4,600 tons in 1986)
and concerns mainly cash crops (3,200 tons); however there is strong demand
for fertilizer on food crops in the Kirimiro region where application of low
rates of DAP (120kg/ha), with traditional cultivation practices, have shown a
very good response on very acid and exhausted soils. Improved seeds have been
introduced in some areas although not in a systematic and well organized
manner but, their poor quality has generated a weak response from farmers.
Multicropping is the rule, with intercropping frequently practiced
particularly in high intensity farming areas. Farm labor is provided by
family members, mostly by women.
1.07     Marketing of food crops fluctuates widely but is generally limited to
an estimated 10 to 15 percent leading to a low degree of monetization of the
rural population. So far, Government has refrained from direct intervention
in food crop pricing and has renounced (in the SAL context) to intervene in
their marketing, with the exception of import-substitution food crops (wheat,
rice and palm oil). Fooderop marketing is in the hands of a few traders,
mostly foreigners, located in secondary towns and Bujumbura. They are,
usually, also involved in marketing of parchment coffee and consumer goods. A
few cooperatives are also involved in rural trade but poor management reduce
their competitiveness with the private traders to even out extreme price
fluctuations.
1.08     Marketing of cash crops is regulated by Government and carried out by
private traders and parastatals. Most of the coffee cherries are processed In
hand pulping centers set up and maintained by the 'Office des Cafes du
Burundi' (OCIBU), and the parchment coffee is sold by farmers directly to
private traders licensed by OCIBU. A growing percentage (from 4 percent in
1978 to 30 percent in 1988) of coffee is processed in coffee washing stations.
Based on the forecast FOB export price, a coffee pricing structure, "Echelle
mobile", establishes the various margins to be paid from the proceeds of
coffee sales to the producers, the traders, the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC),
the Regional Development Companies (RDC), and OCIBU. The price paid to the
producers is fixed each year for the next season and is not adjusted according
to the final export price. Reform of the coffee pricing structure was a key
condition of the structural adjustment program. Studies are now underway and
reforms will be implemented in the context of the coffee project currently
under preparation.
1.09     Institutional agricultural credit is practically non-existent.  The
beneficiaries of credit granted by commercial banks are predominantly living
in urban areas. In rural areas, credit represents only 13 percent of total
savings by Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC). This illustrates the
scarcity of agricultural credit opportunities resulting from the limited use
of cash inputs.



C. Sector Institutiona
1.10     The Ministgr  of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) (chart 1) is in
charge of policy formulation, direction and coordination of all activities in
the sector. Since a reorganization in January 1989, four General Directorates
report directly to the Minister: Plan-ning, Agriculture, Livestock and
Extension which is a new Directorate. MOAL is also the umbrella organization
for Regional Development Companies (RDCs) and several parastatals.
1.11     The Director General for Agricultural Planning (DGPA) is responsible
for three departments: (i) Studies and Programming covering sectoral
planning, project identification, preparation and supervision of sectoral and
feasibility studies; (ii) Monitoritv and Evaluation and Management Assistance
covering pro'ect supervision, technical and budgetary control; socio-economic
evaluation of MOAL's interventions, management assistance to projects and
parastatals, coordination of financial audits; and (iv) Agricultural Education
and Training. covering the supervision of agriculture vocational schools.
Agricultural statistics are collected by SNES (Service National d'Etudes et de
Statistiques) In the Ministry of Planning, through regional surveys on
agriculture production and farm structure.
1.12     The Director General for Agriculture  is now responsible for three
departments: (i) Crop production covering food and export crop promotion and
in charge of production and distribution of seed and planting material; (ii)
Land Improvement and Fertilization covering land improvement and fertilization
and coordination of fertilizer supply; (iii) Crop protection covering pest and
disease control. Rural works, water and Forestry, Land Tenure and Rural
Cadaster department are now under the new Ministry of Land Developmant,
Tourism and Environment (MLDTE).
1.13           The Director General of Livestock is responsible for three
departments: (i) Animal Production: (ii) Animal Health: and (iii) the
Veterlnary Laboratorv.
1.14           The new Director General for Extension  (DGV) created as a
result of project preparation, supervises Agricultural projects and RDCs and
he is responsible for two departments: (i) Extension in charge of development
education, training and supervision of extension staff; and community
development; and (ii) Personnel and Budget in charge of budget preparation and
execution, and direct management of extension staff.
1.15           Agriculzural services are regionalized and each department is
represented separately at the provincial and commune levels. The head of the
extension service in each province has the official title of Provincial
Coordinator for Agriculture and Livestock, he has overall responsibility for
the execution of MOAL's program in the province and reports directly to the
Director General for Extension. MOAL's DGPA is receiving technical assistance
under the ongoing Third Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1456-BU) and under a
technical assistance project financed by German Aid.



- 5 -
1.16     The following parastatel institutions, with the exception of BCC, are
under the responsibility of MOAL.
(a)   OCIBU (Office des Cafes du Burundi) is a financially autonomous
parastatal institution established in 1964. OCIBU was
originally intended to be responsible for the production,
quality control, conditioning, marketing control, and promotion
of all industrial crops. In practice however, it deals only
with coffee and is responsible for extension, input supply,
maintenance of hand pulpers and operation of two modern coffee
hulling factories.
(b)   ISABU (Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi) carries
out agriculture and livestock research, through 4 departments
staffed by 45 local researchers and 40 expatriates. ISABU
which was until recently mainly financed and assisted by
Belgian Aid is developing cooperation with other bilateral
donors and the International Agricultural Research Centers.
(c)   BCC (Burundi Coffee Company) was created in 1975 and
restructured in 1980.  Owned by the Government, the Central
Bank and OCIBU, BCC is under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry and handles all coffee exports.  It is
headed by a general director with two assistants. The major
problems facing BCC are the lack of international marketing
expertise of its staff, inadequate storage facilities, and an
unreliable transportation system for coffee exports. These
problems are addressed through conditionalities under the SAC
II Credit.
(d)   Reg ional Development Companies (RDC).  RDCs are autonomous
institutions with responsibility for broad integrated rural
development in their respective areas of operation. Although
fully owned by the Government, the decree establishing them
allows for private ownership up to 40 percent, and requires
them to be managed as commercial operations. Thirteen RDCs
have been created to date, although only four of the integrated
rural development type with important commercial activities are
operational at present.
1.17     The Ministry of Rural Development and Handicraft (MRDH) was separated
from the former Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development in
1979 and was reorganized again in December 1988. It consists now of two
General Directorates: (i) Handicraft, Cooperatives and Rural Housing
organized in three departments; and (ii) Rural Water Supply and Enerrv with
two departments and an Administrative and Financial Service.
1.18     The Cooperative Movement.  Since 1976, official support has been
given to the dev7elopment of cooperatives through the National Development
Plans; assistance was also provided from 1978 to 1986 through a UNDP financed
project implemented by ILO; various bilateral agencies and NGOs are also
supporting cooperatives. With some 250 cooperatives and many pre-cooperative
or informal groups, the cooperative movement is active in rural areas across
the country. Most of these cooperatives are involved in procurement and sale



of consumer goods and in agricultural product marketing. In the past,
however, Government considered cooperatives as an instrument for the
implementation of its development policy, as a result, cooperatives were set
up according to governmental criteria and representatives of local authorities
and civil servants hLlve often a dominant role in cooperative management and
operations. Furthermore, cooperative operations and transactions were subject
until recently to the regulations of an inadequate cooperative legislation
reflecting the paternalistic concept of the previous Government toward
cooperatives. This inadequate concept together with inefficient cooperative
support services. led to a situation where many cooperatives are not viable.
1.19     Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC) have been successfully
promoted through a national project supported by French Bilateral Assistance
and the 'Centre International du Credit Mutuel" (CICM). Some 56 COOPECs
collect savings from 67,000 members and have started credit operations on a
limited scale. Efficient support and control services are provided by a
Central Office in Gitega assisted by CICM under an agreement with the
Government. Details on COOPECS are provided in Annex 2.
1.20     The Ministry of Land Development, Tourism and Environment  has been
created in October 1988. Among its attribution are Water and Forestry, Rural
Works and Land Tenure, and Rural Cadaster which were previously under MOAL
authority.
1.21     Local Administration.  Burundi is divided into fifteen provinces
(IBRD Map 20006), each of which is divided into "communes" (114 in all) which
are further subdivided into zones and 2,464 "collines", the smallest
administrative units. The Ministry of the Interior has principal
responsibility for local administration. Through "gouverneurs" at the
provincial level, it coordinates the technical ministries units located in the
province. At the communal level, the commune administrator, manages a
communal budget financed with local and national resources, and assist in the
settlement of social conflicts, most of them being related to land tenure
disputes. He is assisted by an advisory committee staffed by civil servants
natives from or working in the commune. The elected council planned in the
communal reform has never been established, as a result the participation of
the population in communal affairs is minimal. The involvement of the
Communal Administrator in development activities is too often limited to an
enforcement role (credit recovery, "travaux communautaires"). The project
would help the Government to find ways of improving the development impact of
local administration through a pilot action in Ngozi and Muramvya Provinces.
D. Sector Performance
1.22     Overall performance of the agricultural sector was good in the
1970's, and in particular between 1978 and 1981, when GDP grew at an average
annual rate of 5.1 percent. Subsequently, due to a sharp deterioration in its
terms of trade, expansionary fiscal and monetary policies and adverse
Burundi's climatic conditions, the economic situation deteriorated
significantly with annual real GDP growth declining to less than 1.0 percent
during 1982-84. In 1984, the external current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) reached a record high of 16 percent GDP, and the overall



fiscal deficit on a co-mitment basis rose to 12 percent of GDP. The terms of
trade sharp deterioration between 1978 and 1981 was due mainly to the decline
of international coffee prices and increased import prices, particularly oil.
Corrective measures including import restrictions affected imports of capital
and intermediary goods, including for agriculture. In addition, the effect on
the budget from falling Government revenues (resulting from lower value coffee
exports) restricted the Government's investment program and increased the
proportion financed through foreign borrowings or grants. In 1984, a serious
drought led to a reduction of agricultural output by about 12 percent, but
production estimates indicate a return to normal levels in 1985, 1986 and
1987. With the support of IDA and the IMF, the Government embarked in 1985 in
the preparetion of a comprehensive economic reform program. The econowy
rebounded somewhat following the recovery of agriculture production to pre-
drought levels. Real GDP growth reached 7.4 percent; the current account
deficit declined to 9.3 percent of GDP; and the overall fiscal deficit on a
commitment basis fell to 7.6 percent of GDP.
1.23     Despite a period of marked decline in world coffee prices,
developments in late 1986 and 1987 were largely positive. Non-traditional
exports grew by about 30 percent a year in real terms, while import growth was
contained.  In 1987 world prices of coffee declined by 46 percent to their
lowest level in a decade, and coffee export earnings contracted by US$ 47
million. As a result the current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) increased to the equivalent of 15 percent of GDP and the overall
balance of payments deficit was about US$ 10 million. Economic performance
over the next five years will depend on: (i) timely implementation of the
adjustment program; (ii) the responsiveness of the private sector to new
incentives and the economic environment; (iii) evolution of world prices for
Burundi's exports, in particular coffee; and (iv) the availability of external
financing on concessional terms.  The PFP under preparation estimates that the
financing gap would grow from US$ 28 million in 1990, to US$ 50 million in
1991, and US$ 62 million in 1992. To help finance this gap, IDA intends to
use a series of vehicles supporting appropriate policy changes. They include
macro-economic adjustment operation as well as hy'rid operations.  In the
agricultural sector, the proposed operation is such a hybrid.
1.24     Statistical surveys conducted by the National Service for Studies and
Statistics (SNES) in 1974, 1982, 1985 in the Ngozi area, the most densely
populated region in Burundi, show that food producticn has been able to keep
pace with population growth.  The credit for this situation is due mostly to
the know-how of Burundian farmers, both men and women, and their ability to
adjust farming systems to a changing environment. However, while Burundi may
have maintained an average caloric availability of 2200 calories per day,
specific nutritional requirements and family-level food security have not been
ensured: (i) while protein and caloric needs have been covered on average,
lipid coverage remains highly deficient (46 percent); (ii) recent nutrition
surveys show that protein-calorie malnutrition among children less than five
years old is a serious problem; and (iii) while farming production systems are
well-adapted to reducing the risk of periodic food shortage, the low level of
monetization and undeveloped marketing systems are potential constraints to
maintaining food security in times of adverse climatic conditions.
1.25     Agricultural services are largely ineffective, generally employing
inadequate research and extension methods. Until recently, agricultural



- 8 -
research has been guided more by academic requisites than by the needs of
Burundi's agriculture. However, the new policy of the National Agricultural
Research Institute (ISABU) is to build upon some successful experiences to
reorganize agricultural research around Regional Multidisciplinary ResearcL
Workshops working directly with farmers, in addition to multi-disciplinary on-
station research programs for priority commodities (coffee, maize, milk).
This is expected to facilitate the dialogue between extension and research
which has been often limited to a discussion of annual/seasonal work programs.
Extension has suffered from the lack of relevant technical packages, specially
for foodcrops and, as a result, the main role of extension services is too
often limited to ensure compliance with Government decreed national
objectives; a top-down approach is still prevailing. In addition, extension
efforts are diluted by heavy burdens of unrelated non-extension duties. Staff
numbers are adequate but their educational background is often insufficient
(many have barely a primary school certificate). Due to budget constrai!ts,
facilities with respect to staff accommodation and mobility are almost *Ion-
existent and effective farmer contact difficult. Extension workers wotking
outside projects do not receive systematic in-service training to keep them
abreast of technological advances or to improve their communication skills.
1.26     An IDA Study executed in 1987 to assess fertilizer usage and
potential for local production concluded that the agronomic effectiveness of
chemical fertilization is limited by several factors, among which: (i) the
lack of fertilizer oriented agronomic research, with possible misuses of
nutrients in fertilizer formulations not tailored to the specific soil and
crop conditions; and (ii) the severe acidity and aluminum toxicity of large
part of Burundian soils which block and retrograde fertilizer nutrients before
they are assimilat d by the plant. Because of financing problems and
cumbersome procurement procedures, effective demand is not entirely met by the
current import and distribution system which is in the hands of parastatals
(RDCs, Tea and Cotton Companies). Subsidized selling prices, unequal fiscal
status and insufficient technical experience prevent an active involvement of
the private sector in the marketing of fertilizers. These issues would be
addressed by the proposed operation through a fertilizer research program on
the technical side and a reform of the input pricing and fiscal regime, on the
policy side.
E. Sector Financial Issues
1.27     The main financial issues in the agricultural sector, identified by
an IDA study carried out in 1987, are: (a) the fragmentation of budgetary
procedures; (b) weak budgetary control on parastatal companies; and (c)
questionable sustainability of public expenditures.
1.28     The sector's share of budget resources is provided through different
channels: (i) MOAL's ordinary budget covers the salaries and office operating
costs of central services and of provincial services not covered by projects,
and a participation to RDC's operating budgets (3 percent of the GOB operating
budget); (ii) the transportation costs of MOAL are under the Ministry of
Transportation and are almost non-existent; (iii) government counterpart
funding of externally financed agricultural projects, including operating
costs, are under the Investment Budget; (iv) the coffee pricing schedule



- 9 -
("echelle mobile") supports investments in the coffee sector, covers the costs
of coffee inputs, the operating costs of OCIBU and BCC, and financed for a few
years the operating costs of Buyenzi RDC which were not financed under the
IDA-financed Ngozi III project; and (v) support to cooperatives and rural
infrastructure is budgeted under the Ministry of Rural Development and
Handicraft.
1.29     The ordinary budget allocation to the agricultural sector has
slightly increased from FBu 525 (US$ 4.4) million in 1984 to FBu 665 (US$
4.30) million in 1988, which is only 3 percent of the total ordinary budget.
In the 1988 ordinary budget for the agricultural sector, salary coets amount
to 58 percent of total ordinary budget, a 3 percent annual increase over the
past four years; the staff under civil service status amounts to 34 percent
and personnel under contract with the Government 24 percent. Research
receives 17 percent, agriculture schools 17 percent, and the remaining 8
percent is shared among projects, office operation and veterinary products.
The investment budget for the sector has increased from FBu 542 million in
1984 to FBu 1,127 million in 1988, which is about 30 percent of the total
public investment program. Within this, the Government contribution
(investment and operating costs) to externally financed agricultural projects
represents 70 percent, and the national program for expansion and regeneration
of coffee plantations 20 percent.
1.30     MOAL's DGPA has prepared a preliminary Public Expenditure Program for
the 1987-1989 period including only on-going or securely financed projects.
The annual average is FBu 7,900 (US$ 66) million, of which only 15 percent are
financed by the ordinary and investment budgets. With area-based multi-
component projects and RDCs representing almost 50 percent of the PEP it is
difficult to assess the respective share of the agricultural subsectors. This
illustrates the still prevalent area-based planning and the lack of sectoral
programming and budgeting. A striking example is the coffee sector whose
investments are scattered among 7 different projects.
1.31     The lack of sector-wide programming and budgeting leads to
inefficient monitoring of public expenditures. MOAL's Planning and Technical
Departments have little to say in the definition and enforcement of financial
and technical norms. This has resulted in rather generous allocations to
parastatal institutions such as OCIBU and RDCs. As an example, the Buyenzi
RDC was able to accumulate, in the past, an excessive cash flow through
subsidies from the coffee pricing system, while other projects were
underfunded. It also results in excessive unit costs as experiences are not
systematically analyzed and analyses shared between projects units.
1.32     The dependency of sector financing on external contributions is a
major issue. The 15 percent of PEP costs currently financed by GOB through
ordinary and investment budgets are not enough to cover operating expenditures
of the PEP estimated at 23 percent of total. To lower this level of
dependency, the Government long-term financial strategy in the agricultural
sector will focus on: (i) progressive transfer of agricultural investments to
the private sector; (ii) close monitoring of the cost/benefit ratio of
agricultural services, rural development infrastructure and land protection;
(iii) concentration of budgetary resources on public service activities
(extension, research); and (iv) debudget-ization of commercial activities
(input supply, marketing). The proposed project would apply these principles



- 10 -
to the reorganization of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs. Successful implementation
of agricultural services reform in these two RDCs will lead to a reduction
estimated at about 15 percent of the cost of public expenditures for
agricultural services covering 5 provinces (para. 6.04).
F. Sector Strategy
1.33    Any long-term strategy for agricultural development in Burundi
eventually has to deal with three basic issues: how to raise production in
the face of increasing land scarcity; how to optimize returns on coffee as the
major cash crop and, at the same time, reduce dependence on it as the main
export; and how to increase the efficiency of sector institutions in the face
of serious financial limitations (a high debt burden, low savingslinvestment
rates and limited budgetary resources).
1.34     In the past, Burundian farmers have been able to increase food
production in line with population growth by bringing into cultivation
previously unused lands, by adapting their farming systems to achieve
increasingly higher cropping intensities (i.e., intercropping, double
cropping, relay cropping), and by shifting from cereal and legumes to high
yielding tuber crops. This has, thus far, enabled the avoidance of using cash
inputs on a large scale but it has also meant that crop yields per acre have
not notably increased, and nutritional standards have decreased. As the
potential for production growth on the past pattern becomes increasingly
limited, greater use of cash inputs to achieve crop yield increases is
becoming a necessity. Hence (a) far greater attention is needed to develop
and propagate adequate technical recommendations through better extension and
research; and (b) farmers will increasingly have to produce for the market to
enable the purchase of cash inputs.
1.35     Given the limited size of the domestic market, at least in the short
to medium term, the main source of cash earnings will be in export commodities
(and, to a lesser extent, in import substitution products). The Government
has made--and continues to make--a major effort to increase its export
earnings from coffee both by expanding production through extensicn, provision
of pesticides and tree renewal programs, and by increasing coffee quality
through investments in washing stations. On the production side, this effort
has been relatively successful as witnessed in increasing production and a
progressively larger share of fully-washed coffee in total coffee output. A
problem, however, has arisen in that the quality premium for fully-washed
coffee on the market could not be realized due to inadequate pxocessing and
handling in OCIBU and BCC; these problems are now addressed through
conditionality in the Structural Adjustment Credit, and through investments in
improved processing and handling. The more general problem, however, is the
destabilizing effect of fluctuating coffee prices, especially on the
Government budget as the coffee pricing system in Burundi has been applied so
as to insulate coffee producers from such fluctuations. These effects can
only be mitigated: (a) in the short to medium term by changes in the pricing
system so as to achieve more efficient processing and marketing; and (b) in
the medium to long term by sharing some of the price fluctuations between
producers and Government and by developing alternative exports. The reform of



- 11 -
the coffee pricing system would be addressed under a Coffee/Export Crops
Project, currently under preparation.
1.36     Finally, increased efficiency of sectoral institutions would be the
goal of a series of measures which are part of the Government's Agricultural
Sector Policy, which would be supported by the proposed operation. Problems
encountered in this area in the implementation of previous and on-going Bank
operations have been fourfold. First, the creation and subsequent expansion
of RDCs caused confusion as to the role of the central ministries and, to some
extent, led to dual services. Second, the vocation of RDCs to promote
integrated rural development led them to take on many activities including
social services, construction work and subsidized commercial activities. Not
only did this prevent the private sector from entering into some of these
activities, but the high cost of RDC operation increasingly led to questions
of financial sustainability. Third, both extension and research services have
been applying a top-down approach, insufficiently taking into account farmer
requirements and failing to learn from progressive farmer initiatives. A more
participatory attitude would not only result in efficiency gains but would
also help to lessen social tensions. Fourth, separate financing of RDC
counterpart expenditures through earmarked resources (i.e., the coffee
"echelle mobile") led to unaccountability of resource use, difficulties in
sectoral investment planning and programming and, in some instances, wasteful
allocation of scarce Government resources and a growing level o' subsidies.
Basically, the agreements now reached to solve these problems are: (a)
returning progressively the service activities' responsibility from the RDCs
to the central services, while at the same time reinforcing budget control at
the central ministry levels; (b) relinquishing progressively commercial and
force account activities (i.e., constructionlopera-tion of washing stations,
supply and distribution of inputs) to the private sector and to cooperatives;
and (c) to the extent that the private sector would not be able to manage
commercial activities, RDCs would retain responsibility but would manage them
strictly as a commercial enterprise. These decisions, together with their
organizational, financial and administrative implications, would be the
framework in which the proposed operation would work. They result from a long
evolution process based on experience gained in previous and on-going
operations (paras. 2.04-2.14).
II. IDA'S INVOLVEMENT IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Previous and Ontoint Bank Group Involvement
2.01     The Bank Group is one of the major sources of development assistance
to Burundi. To date, IDA has financed eight agricultural projects, of which
four have been completed and four are being Implemented.
2.02     Implementation of the Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 626-BU) was
hampered by weak project management coupled with complex project design and
its results were disappointing. The First and Second Coffee Improvement
Projects (Cr. 147-BU and Cr. 593-BU respectively) succeeded in promoting
production of arabica coffee but had limited results for the food crop project



- 12 -
components. The First Forestry Project (Cr. 918-BU) was recently completed
and a PCR has been finalized; the project has been implemented very well. The
Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1620-BU) aims to further develop basic forestry
services, promote tree planting by farmers and promote plan.tations supplying
fuelwood, poles and timber. The Muyinga Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 1857-BU), which was recently declared effective, will strengthen
agricultural services and coope!:atives in Muyinga province.
2.03     Technical assistance was provided to DGPA through two IDA financed
Technical Assistance Projects (Cr. 917-BU and 1456-BU). Between Septembar
1980 and July 1988 two internationally recruited experts assisted respectively
in project identification and preparation and in the setting up of a
monitoring and evaluation system for projects under the responsibility of
MOAL. In September 1984 a third expert was added to support financial
management and accounting. Between June 1980 and July 1987 an expert in
agricultural statistics assisted in setting up an agricultural data collection
system, and trained statisticians. The main achievements have been the
improvement of sectoral planning through the preparation of a Public
Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector and the design of a new
sectoral accounting plan. The efficiency of technical assistance has been
hampered by high turnover of national staff, insufficient coordination with
other Bank interventions, and an unclear DGPA mandate over RDCs and OCIBU.
Achievements have been, however, substantial in sectoral planning, management
assistance and training.
B. Performance of Nxozi III and Kirimiro Projects
2.04     The Ngozi III (Cr. 1192-BU) and Kirimiro Projects (Cr. 1165-BU)
executed by the Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDC respectively, are still under
implementation but are about to be completed. As the lessons learned from
their execution form the basis for the proposed project, the experience gained
from their implementation warrants a more detailed analysis.
2.05     The first RDCs were established in the early seventies, but it was
not until the latter part of the decade, and with the support of IDA, that the
Government began to emphasize RDCs as the central vehicle for broad integrated
rural development. While the Ngozi I project was exclusively designed to
integrate coffee production (PPAR No. 1531 and Impact Evaluation Report No.
3314), the Ngozi II project included a limited fooderop component (PPAR No.
4576). The currently executed projects are very similar in scope and include:
improvement of coffee and fooderop production; improvement of coffee quality
through the construction and management of coffee washing stations; erosion
control; reforestation; swamp development; improvement of livestock; adaptive
research; training; monitoring and evaluation.
2.06     Coffee Production.  The coffee production program is based on:  (a)
concentrated extension focus on pest control, mulching and pruning; (b)
seedling production for plant renewal and area expansion; and (c) applied
coffee research. It has been moderately successful; overall production has
increased due to an expansion of area under coffee by 20 percent. However,
tree renewal has not proceeded at the same pace as new area planting, as a
result of which yields have stagnated at 450 g per tree (750 kg/ha) on



- 13 -
average. Applied research results have shown that yields can be increased
through replacement of old trees and higher density planting; these results
form the basis for an accelerated seedling production program.
2.07           Construction/Management of Washing Stations.  RDCs' principal
activity so far has been the construction and the management of coffee washing
stations. Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs have now 37 and 29 washing stations under
operation respectively. In 1988, they produce about 9,600 tons of fully
washed coffee which represents 30 percent of Burundi's green coffee
production. The coffee washing stations are progressively replacing hand
pulpers and are well received by the population who benefit from higher
prices, reduced labor requirements, and secured cash payments. This
successful program would be further expanded under the Coffee/Export Project
(para. 1.35).
2.08     Food crop production activities have achieved mixed results.
Extension has generally placed less emphasis on food crops than on coffee and
has obtained significant results only on fooderop fertilization in Kirimiro
and rice production in Buyenzi. Seed production through the RDC managed seed
centers is costly and inefficient and has a very limited impact at farmer
level. The main reason for this shortcoming is the scarcity of improved seeds
with significantly higher performance than the farmer's own seeds. Plant
protection extension has suffered from the lack of an effective link between
extension and research.
2.09     Input demand and distribution is relatively advanced in Kirimiro,
especially for fertilizer. In 1987, two thirds of Kirimiro's farmers used
fertilizer (totalling 1200 tons) mainly on beans which represent about 60
percent of the pure stand beans area. Fertilizer is sold by RDC at prices
which do not cover transport and marketing costs in Burundi. Yield increases
from fertilizer use are above 50 percent or about 420kg/ha and the farmer
benefitlcost ratio is about 3sl at present subsidized prices and would be
around 2:1 when marketing costs are fully recovered. The storage and
distribution function is separated from extension services; no credit is given
for seasonal inputs and the cooperative network is used for distribution of
about 20 percent of fertilizer. However, there is considerable room for
improvements in tightening stock and cost control. Until recently, the
Buyenzi RDC did not have a functioning input distribution system: inputs were
sold and, partly distributed on credit by the extension service; the demand
for fertilizer is low; the existing cooperative network is not used; and an
effective system for stock and cost control including credit recovery does not
exist. Farmers in Buyenzi (where soil conditions are not conducive to the use
of existing fertilizers) buy this 'subsidized' fertilizer and resell it, in
Kirimiro where there is suppressed demand, often 60 to 80 % over subsidized
price.
2.10     In Buyenzi RDC rice cultivation in swampy bottomlands has been
promoted through efficient extension and the attractive paddy price offered by
the RDC (25 percent above market price). The area under cultivation has
progressed from lOOha to 2,500 ha in 1987 and involves 30,000 farmers or about
20 percent of total. The RDC operates two rice mills financed under separate
funding from the Government. However, unrealistic paddy prices combined with
high processing costs (25 percent above small private mills) make the RDC's
rice non-competitive. As a result, subsidy needs for the 1987 campaign



- 14 -
amounted to FBu 13 million. The Government is committed to liberalize the
rice market before 1990 and the proposee project would support the
privatization of RDC's rice mills.
2.11     The RDCs are also in charge of building and maintaining
infrastructure such as forest plantations, erosion control, and rural roads.
Over four years, Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs have planted 2,400 ha and 5,300 ha
of forest respsctively, of which about 50 percent of soil protection
plantations on degraded hill crest. One thousand hectares were destroyed
during the August 1988 tragic events. About 90 percent of the plantations are
owned by the RDCs which are responsible for their management. Erosion control
works are done by the population through community works with the RDCs
providing planting material for contour hedges. Construction and maintenance
of access roads to the washing stations are under RDC's responsibility. In
Kirimiro, maintenance works are done by the population, while in Buyenzi they
are done on force account.
2.12     Financial Situation.  The financial and managerial problems of the
RDCs were the subject of an IDA study in 1985. RDCs were created on the
assumption that the proceeds from commercial activities would pay for rural
development services and infrastructure. This has not been the case so far
for two reasons: (i) due to an inadequate coffee pricing system (echelle
mobile) the production of fully washed coffee has sometimes been done at a
loss for the RDCs while the same pricing system was making profits for OCIBU
and BCC; (ii) the scope and magnitude of service activities and rural
infrastructure programs were out of proportion with RDCs potential profits.
2.13     The actual presentation of RDCs' annual budgets and accounts is
confusing and makes their financial analysis difficult. There is no clear
distinction among the three types of RDC activities: service activities,
commercial activities and rural development infrastructure. Moreover, the
presentation per project component does not distinguish between investment and
operation costs, and the commercial accounting system is ill-adapted for
service activities which generate no revenue.
2.14     Under the project, RDC accounting would be reorganized in order to
keep separate accounts for the different activities. Opening balance sheets
would be prepared for activities which would eventually be transferred to the
private sector or the specialized RDC branches (garage, construction,
management of the coffee washing stations). Excessive cash-flow resulting
from unused subsidies to the RDC would be returned to the Treasury.
III.  The Government's Atricultural Sector Policy
A. General Description
3.01     To address structural issues, the Government requested, in late 1984,
that the Bank and the IHF assist with the preparation of a comprehensive
economic reform program. Supported by the First and Second IDA Structural
Adjustment Credits (SAC I and SAC II), the Governments program includes a



- 15 -
comprehensive package of ongoing measures to: (a) strengthen macroeconomic
management; (b) create an incentive framework to stimulate exports and improve
private sector confidence; (c) reform public enterprises; (d) improve public
expenditures management; and new measures to: (e) increase the efficiency of
the financial sector; (f) 14beralize the labor market; and (g) implement well-
targeted measures aimed at alleviating poverty.
3.02     In the agricultural sector the Government intends to take measures
to: (a) improve productivity levels (notably for foodcrops) particularly
through increased utilization of fertilizers; (b) prepare pricing policies in
line with the production and export objectives; (c) strengthen the efficiency
of the coffee sector; (d) redefine the role of public institutions in the
sector and more specifically restructuring of the RDCs; and (e) address the
economic and financial difficulties of some agro-industrial projects. These
principles are now further developed by the Agriculture and Livestock Sectoral
Policy adopted by the Government in June 1988. Based on a realistic
assessment of past experiences, the policy proposes major changes in the
public expenditure planning and programming process, the role of public
institutions, and an increased participation of the population in the
decision-making process. The policy calls for strengthening the programing,
coordinating and monitoring capability of public service together with a
growing involvement of the private sector and cooperatives in commercial
activities such as in input production and supply, produce processing and
marketing. Production objectives will emphasize quality aspects and will take
into account the specific diversity of ecological zones and farming
conditions.
3.03     For cash crops, the Government plans to achieve its objective of a
two third increase in coffee production through new planting only in areas
with high potential, increased planting density, replacement of old coffee
trees and improved cultivation practices. Coffee quality will continue to be
promoted through construction of washing stations and reorganization of
pricing and marketing mechanisms. This policy addresses the major constraints
of the coffee sector and would be supported by a Coffee Export Crops project
under preparation. Tea production will be developed through expansion of
areas under cultivation and use of chemical fertilizers.
3.04     For fooderops,  the GOB policy acknowledges that one of the main
constraint is the lack of a well-organized market. In the short term priority
will be given to increasing the nutritional value of production by focusing on
cereals, legumes, fruits and vegetables instead of tubers. At the same time
the Government will pursue its policy of non-intervention in agricultural
prices and promotion of the private sector and cooperatives in credit,
marketing, storage and processing. Regional specialization would
progressively result from the development of marketing opportunities and not
from bureaucratic planning.
3.05     Agricultural research and extension will be "demand' oriented and
closely linked together. Research will be done in real-life environment and
support farmers' own experimentation. The new policy emphasizes the need for
a better dialogue between farmers and agricultural services staff who should
be more attentive to farmers' needs and constraints.



- 16 -
3.06     Plant Protection and fertilization have been identified as key
factors for Intensification. On fertilization, the Government's policy is to
facilitate the involvement of the private sector in the marketing of
fertilizer to satisfy present demand, to promote agriculture-livestock
integration, and to launch a national research program to assess the
opportunity of using local lime and phosphate deposits in order to adjust its
import and supply policy.
3.07     The policy call for a progressive transfer of input production and
marketing from Government services to the private sector and cooperatives
together with a progressive suppression of subsidies. Agricultural credit
will be done exclusively through banking institutions and particularly through
Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC).
3.08     On the institutional side the Government's policy is to move away
from area based projects to a more sectoral approach with better integration
of central and local services. At the central level, the Government intends
to strengthen the planning, budgeting and monitoring capacities of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock which will focus on production aspects.
Land development and management through erosion control, reforestation,
bottomland protection and development will be coordinated by a new Ministry,
the Ministry for Land Development, Tourism and Environment. At the local
level, the Government has decided to implement a reorganization of the RDCs
along the conclusions of the RDC study (para. 2.12). The main features of the
program are: (i) progressive transfer of the RDC's extension departments to
MOAL's services; (ii) progressive transfer of input production and marketing
to the private sector and cooperatives; and (iii) divestiture from RDCs of
rural development activities which will be devolved to the relevant
Ministries, with RDCs concentrating on the promotion of commercial activities.
Government's policy on cooperatives
3.09     The Government intends to address the shortcoming of the cooperative
movement (para. 1.18) through the following measures: (i) application of the
new cooperative legislation in order to enable pre-cooperatives and
cooperatives to be established, to develop and to operate exclusively under
the control of their members and their freely elected or recruited
representatives; (ii) rehabilitation and reorganization of existing
cooperatives including dissolving groups and cooperatives not supported by
members or economically not viable; (iii) reorganization of support services
through better coordination of external aid; and (iv) expansion of the Savings
and Credit Cooperatives (COOPECs).
B. The Policy Component
3.10     The proposed operation would assist the Government in implementing
the institutional dimension of its agricultural sector policy, the adjustment
of the national input policy and the reorganization of the Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs, and the reform of the salary structure of MOAL's staff. Many
of the activities supported by this operation constitute the sector
implementation of broader policy principles, taking into account the sector
specificity as well as the time dimension of the necessary transition from old



- 17 -
to reformed concepts. This is especially true of the reform of MOAL's salary
structure, which is part and parcel of the broader SAC-supported civil service
reform.
Adiustment of the National Agricultural Input Policy
3.11     Fertilizers.  The GOB intend to eliminate all subsidies on
fertilizers and other imported inputs sold through the official sector
(Agronomy Department, RDCs and Projects). For fertilizers this would occur in
three steps. The first step would be a 25 percent increase in 1989 over the
current RDC selling price to farmets. This would cover the economic cost of
fertilizer. The second step would be to include in 1990 a profit margin which
would allow the participation of the private sector in wholesale marketing.
The third step would be the suppression of all subsidies in 1991. The impact
of price increase on farmers's demand and consequently on food security would
be jointly reviewed by the Government and by IDA on an annual basis and
adjustments, if necessary, will be agreed with IDA. The suppresion of
fertilizer subsidies would effectively terminate artificial demand in areas
where application is not technically feasible, redirect fertilizer to areas of
demonstrated usefulness at prices lower than parallel market prices and
facilitate private sector involvement. On the technical side, research will
help develop fertilizer mixes better suited to soils where demand is currently
artificially induced by subsidized prices. Full cost recovery resulting of
the suppresion of current indirect subsidies (together with other policy
measures unifyi.ng the tax and fiscal regime applied to public and private
entities) is expected to: (i) permit the entry of private operators in the
marketing of fertilizers; (ii) match supply and demand geographically; (iii)
and result in price increase of about 35% (with tax exemption on inputs) to
about 55% (with full taxation on inputs). Progressively, in line with
improved capacity of the primary and secondary cooperatives in the area, the
RDCa and the projects would pass the retail function of inputs to the
cooperative and private sector, and wherever possible, wholesale and
procurement functions as well. Assessments of the cooperatives' capacity
would be undertaken and contractual arrangements made by the RDCs and the
projects. These arrangements should provide for adequate retail margins
permitting cooperatives to make reasonable profits and cover storage and
marketing costs. The RDCs would continue to import fertilizers in bulk and
act as wholesale suppliers in order to benefit from economy of scale. In
order to allow fair competition in fertilizer imports and marketing, state
organizations would be subject to the same tariff and tax policies as private
traders. The national policy on fertilizer usage, import, and production will
be coordinated by the national committee described in para. 5.14.   The
implementation of the first phase of the suppresion of subsidies on
fertilizers would be a condition of first tranche release.
3.12     Seeds.  The seed production and marketing system will be reorganized
along the following principless focus on a limited number of strategic seeds
for which results are available from research (rice, potatoes, maize, etc.);
creation of a seed control and certification function outside of ISABU;
introduction of a cost recovery system allowing for privatization of the last
stages of seed multiplication and marketing (farmers groups or private
entrepreneurs). The formulation by the Government of a national program for



- la -
seed production and marketing acceptable to IDA would be a condition of second
tranche release.
3.13     Phytosanitary Inputs.  The usage of pesticides would be regulated by
a pesticide regulatory scheme which would be prepared with the support of the
project. Phytosanitary products for food crops would be sold at full cost
recovery through the private sector and the cooperatives.  The formulation by
the Government of a national regulation on pesticide usage consistent with
IDA's pesticide guidelines would be a condition of second tranche release.
3.14     To support the above readjustment of the GOB's agricultural input
policy, the project would provide foreign exchange for agricultural sector
inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, veterinary products and agricultural
tools and equipment.
Reorganization of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs
3.15     The Government would limit the role of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs to
one of promotion rather than implementation of commercial activities. This
would constitute a pilot program, with the evolution of the two RDCs staged
i.n two phases. During the first phase, the RDCs would reorganize their
ictivities into autonomous units with separate accounts. At the same time
they would study the feasibility of transforming their commercial activities
into separate enterprises and would experiment with new programming and
budgeting procedures for the services activities. The second phase would be
the transfer of extension activities to MOAL's provincial services, and the
implementation of the results of the above studies. The Government of Burundi
intends to reorganize other RDCs along the same principles, as part of its new
agricultural policy and in light of the experience gained with Buyenzi and
Kirimiro.
3.16     Commercial Activities.  Over the project period, Buyenzi and Kirimiro
RDCs would transfer after study the following activities to the private sector
and cooperatives: input production and marketing, garage operation, civil
works construction, rural road construction and maintenance, and, possibly
management of the coffee washing stations.
(a)   Input production and supply.  Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs would
apply the new national agricultural input policy (para. 3.11-
3.13) for production, procurement and distribution of inputs.
In addition, the RDCs would take the following measures:
(i)   In order to promote the use of new inputs, mini-stocks
for resale by cooperatives and traders would be held by
selected cooperatives and private traders on consignment
for the RDCs and provincial extension services. The
marketing risk would thus be borne by the RDC. Once the
existence of sufficient demand for a certain input would
have been ascertained, the RDC would establish a "buffer
stock' from which cooperatives and traders could buy at
their own risk. Such buffer stocks already exist for
fertilizers.



- 19 -
(ii) RDCs and Provincial Services would not distribute any
inputs on credit. Seasonal inputs twould be sold to
farmers, during the coffee marketing season, against
cash. For sprayers (food crops) and tools, farmers and
groups of farmers would be expected to make credit
arrangements, if required, through marketing cooperatives
or through COOPECs.
(iii) The cost accounting system would be changed in both RDCs
to show clearly the cost of input distribution and its
profitability.
(b)   Garage Operation.  The reorganization of the RDCs' garages
would be done in two stages. During the first year of the
project, they would be operated as autonomous entities inside
the RDC framework. The head of the garage would be accountable
for general management. Accounting would continue to be done
by the RDC's Financial and Administrative Unit but accounts
would be kept independently and audited separately. Direct
costs would not be eligible for IDA reimbursement. Garage
income would come from direct billing of other RDC departments,
services, and private clients. Assurance- were obtained at
negotiations that a study on vehicle maintenance to assess the
competitiveness of the garages be completed before April 1991
and will issue recommendations on the following alternatives:
privatization, closing, or merging with the regional garage
managed by the Ministry of Transport.
(c)   Civil works censtruction and road maintenance.  RDCs' force
account construction capabilities have been developed mainly
for the construction of washing stations. Based on the
existing accounting system, the construction cost of the coffee
washing stations (28 million FBu) does not fully account for
RDC overhead and technical assistance. The following changes
are envisageds (i) separate accounting would be installed to
gain a better knowledge of real construction costs; (ii) the
autonomous civil works department would compete under national
competitive bidding for infrastructure financed by the project
and for the construction of coffee washing stations; and (iii)
a study on the creation of separate companies, specialized in
the construction and equipment of washing stations would be
implemented as part of the preparation of the Coffee/Export
crops project. In the cas- of Buyenzi RDC, the maintenance of
the secondary roads networx would be eventually executed by
private entrepreneurs under the supervision of the Ministry of
Public Woi:ks. Agreement that this transfer would occur before
December 1990 has been reached during negotiations. In the
meantime, to facilitate monitoring and induce cost reduction,
3DC's civil work departments would be paid, as any other
contractor, only on the basis of works actually completed.
3.17     Manazement of the Coffee Washint Stations.  The management of the
coffee washing stations would be transferred, over the first three years of
the project, to one or several autonomous commercial companies, created around



- 20 -
the existing RDC's coffee technology departments. The status of the companies
would allow the participation of the private sector (including former RDC
staff). Proposals on ownership of the washing stations, status and
organization of the management companies would be developed under a study
financed by the Third Technical Assistance Project and would be implemented
under the Coffee/Export crops project.
3.18     Buyenzi Rice Mills.  The presentation to IDA of an acceptable action
plan for the reorganization of the management of the rice mills presently
operated at loss by the Buyenzi RDC in Ngozi and Kirundo provinzes would be a
condition of first tranche release. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that these mills would be sold to the private sector (if the study proves them
profitable), before December 1991.
3.19     Promotion.  At the end of the project the RDCs would basically become
Promotion Units which, if necessary, would continue to act as a wholesale
trader for imported inputs. Under a fee, the RDCs would also provide
management and accounting assistance to small businesses taking over
activities previously Implemented by them, such as vehicle maintenance and
repairs, and civil works and provide management support services to other
private entrepreneurs and cooperatives. These services would include: market
studies, preparation of terms of reference for feasibility studies; counseling
on import/export regulations. They would possibly become a partner of the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry and get involved in the implementation of the
artisanat promotion component of the Urban II Project recently approved by
IDA9s Executive Directors.
3.20     Services Activities.  The progressive transfer of RDCs' extension
services to provincial services would be linked to strengthening MOAL's new
General Directorate for Extension (para. 4.12), to avoid discontinuity in
services delivery.  An agreement has been reached that this shift would be
completed by December 1992 after a joint evaluation in 1991. The
administration of the extension staff would be transferred from the RDC to
MOAL's provincial services during the first three years of the project, by a
decision of the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock. However, extension
staff will remain under RDC technical supervision until 1992. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that, in the seventeen additional communes taken over
for three years by the Kirimiro RDC, existing and additional staff would
remain under their present status. The transfer of administrative and
financial responsibilities for all extension staff working in at least one
province in each RDC would be a condition of second tranche release.
Salary Ad1ustment
3.21     In order to attract and retain qualified staff in the reorganized
agricultural services, it would be necessary to adjust the salary structure of
the civil service which would be applied to RDC's staff transferred to MOAL.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government will undertake a
study on the salary structure for agricultural services' staff, and that the
results of this study would be available by April 1990. The target salary
could be close to the existing RDC salaries which do not appear excessive
given the constraints of field work inherent to agricultural extension;
nevertheless, under present conditions, an abrupt switch of extension staff



- 21 -
from RDCs to the civil service would cause a significant salary reduction and
may induce the departure of the best qualified staff. Starting differences
between RDC and civil service salaries are 40 percent for communal extension
officers (A2) and for field workers (A4), 35 percent for graduate staff (AO),
and 20 percent for extension assistants (A3). Nominal RDC annual starting
salaries range from 5000 Fbu (US$ 405) for a field extension worker, to 38,000
Fbu (US$ 2,430) for a graduate agronomist. The submission to IDA of terms of
reference for the study on the salary policy of agricultural staff would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Starting the implementation of
recommendations of the salary study will be a condition of second tranche
release.
3.22     To retain qualified staff during the transition period, it is
proposed that switched staff continue to receive their current salaries for no
more than three years until a permanent solution is adopted.  After that
period the new salary policy would be applied. Transitional arrangements
would also apply to the civil service extension staff working in the 17
communes in Muramvya, Karuzi and Gitega not presently covered by Kirimiro RDC.
Submission to IDA of satisfactory 1989 and 1990 budgets for Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs would be a condition of first tranche release.  The 1989 budgets
have already been agreed with the Association.
IV. TRE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives
4.01     The project would address two main goals of the GOB's new
agricultural sector policy: improvement of cost-effectiveness of public
expenditures in the agricultural sector and improvement of nutritional
standards and incomes in rural areas.
4.02     The Project's direct objectives would be to:
(a)   develop MOAL's analytical and long term programming and
budgeting capability, and sector management capacity;
(b)   design and establish a national extension system based on:  (i)
response to farmer's needs and constraints; (ii) time-bound
work program, regular and continuous training, close linkages
with research; and (iii) the development of technologies
adapted to the various ecological and farming systems;
(c)   improve efficiency while reducing the financial costs of
agricultural services through reorganization of Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs;
(d)   promote sustainable agricultural input delivery, food crop
marketing and agricultural credit systems through support to
the national agricultural input policy and promotion of the
private sector and cooperativea; and



- 22 -
(e)   promote communal development and rural youth employment.
B. General Descriition
4.03     The project would be a hybrid operation consisting of a policy
component to support reform measures in the agricultural sector described in
Chapter III and an investment component including:
(a)   Strenathenina of MOAL's central services through: (i)
strengthening of MRAL's Planning Directorate; (ii) creation of
a Financial and Administrative Unit and; (Mi) strengthening of
the new General Directorate for Extension.
(b)   Strengthening of agricultural research through: (i) strengthen-
ing the phytosanitary control service in ISABU; (ii) support to
a National Fertilizer Research Program; (iii) preparation of a
program to reorient agricultural research.
(c)   Reorganization and strengthening of reitonal agricultural
services through: (i) reorganization and strengthening
extension services in 5 provinces under Buyenzi and Kirimiro
RDCs; (ii) carrying out, with the support of ISABU a program of
adaptive and on-farm research in the five provinces; (iii)
carrying out a staff training program; (iv) strengthening of
livestock services in Buyenzi and Kirimiro; (v) land protection
and development.
td)   Manatement of RDC reortanization through: (i) strengthening RDC
promotion activities; (ii) monitoring and evaluation.
(e)   Promotion of Communal Development and of Rural Youth Employment
through pilot programs in Ngozi and Muramvya provinces
(f)   Strenithening of the cooperative movement through:  (i) support
to MRDH's Cooperative Department in the promotion of an
autonomous cooperative movement; (ii) support to Credit and
Saving Cooperatives (COOPEC).



- 23 -
C. Description of Prolect ComDonents
1.Strengthening of MOAL's Central Services
4.04     The proposed component would build on the achievements of the Second
and Third Technical Assistance Projects and would address the organizational
constraints which they encountered as follows.
a) MOAL's Planning General Directorate
4.05     The capacity of the Studies and Programming Department would be
strengthened to carry outs sector planning and definition of agricultural
sector strategies; identification and preparation of sectoral program-budgets
(P-B), in cooperation with MOAL's technical Departments and the Ministry of
planning; preparation of TOR and supervision of feasibility studies; annual
review of projects included in the Public Investment Program (PIP) and Public
Expenditures Program (PEP) for the agricultural sector; and coordination of
external donors and non-governmental organizations active in the sector. The
support would includes (i) the appointment of two Agricultural Sector
Planners; (ii) provision of 3 man-years of technical assistance in policy
analysis and planning and 4 man-months of consulting services on sector and
project analysis; (iii) development and implementation of a medium term
program for sector studies and commodity studies (analyse de filieres) by the
establishment of a study fund.
4.06     The Monitoring and Evaluation Service would be strengthened to carry
out: technical monitoring of the PEP; elaboration of methods and modalities
for monitoring and evaluation of projects and services; systematic project
supervision; monitoring and evaluation of national. agricultural strategies and
policies; and evaluation of completed projects and study of issues related to
the post project period. The support would includes (i) appointment,
training, and equipment of a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist; (ii)
provision of 12 man-months of consultants in monitoring and evaluation; (iii)
design and implementa-tion of a technical and financial monitoring and
evaluation system; and (iv) development of an agricultural sector data bank.
4.07     The Management and Accounting Assistance Service would be
strengthened to: promote the utilization of the agricultural sector accounting
system; train accounting staff of the ministry's services and projects through
seminars and on-the-job-training; and provide management and accounting
assistance to projects, RDCs and Offices under MOAL's mandate. The project
support would include: (i) appointment, training and equipment of a Management
Advisor; (ii) provision of 3 man-years of technical assistance and 4 man-
months of consultants in accounting and financial management; and
(iii) project management and accountancy training.
4.08     The Education and Training Department would be strengthened to
undertake: human resources programming for the agricultural sector;
supervision of vocational training, through appointment training and equipment
of a training coordinator. In addition, the technical assistance would
organize: orientation sessions for newly graduated high level staff; and re-
orientation training for reassigned staff. The orientationlre-orientation



- 24 -
training sessions would extend over a six month period and would include short
assignments in MOAL's department and selected projects together with tutorial
provided by the two technical assistants (30 percent of their time) and 2 man-
months of consultants. The project would also finance 30 in-country seminars,
15 overseas short term training course, and 20 study tours.
4.09     Documentation.  MOAL's documentation would be organized through a
parallel FAO project under preparation which would equip existing MOAL
departments' informAtion centers and organize them into a coherent information
network.
4.10     Land Tenure.  The project would finance the feasibility study of a
Cadaster project for two of the most densely populated communes in Buyenzi.
The study would be implemented by MLDTE's Land Tenure and Rural Cadaster
Department.
b) MOAL's Financial and Administrative Unit
4.11     A Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU) would be created, attached
to the Minister's office, to carry out the following functions:
(i) preparation and financial monitoring of a Public Expenditures Programs for
the agricultural sector, annual budget preparation and monitoring of budget
commitments by MOAL's departments and parastatals; (ii) coordination of MOAL's
annual budget preparation (central services, projects' counterpart funds,
provincial services); (iii) decentralization of budget execution by
introducing revolving funds at provincial level which would be replenished on
a quarterly basis; this would enable provincial accountants to make payments
for operating costs including incremental salaries and allowances in a timely
manner thus avoiding current lengthy administrative procedures; and (iv)
control of budget execution in cooperation with DGPA's Monitoring and
Evaluation Service. This Unit would be staffed with a local experienced and
qualified chief accounting officer, preferably seconded from the Ministry of
Finance, assisted by two accountants (A2 level). Th project would finance
staffing, equipment and operation of the unit. The creation of the Unit and
the appointment of the chief accounting officer would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
c) MOAL's General Directorate for Extension
4.12     An Extension Service Department has been established within the
recently created MOAL's General Directorate for Extension with the following
functions: (a) to strengthen coordination between Provincial Coordinations,
projects and RDCs with regard to exchange of knowledge, information and
problem solving; (b) to strengthen the links between extension and the
country's main research organizations: ISABU and the Faculty of Agronomy of
the University of Burundi (FACAGRO); (c) to ensure regular and continuous
training and supervision of extension staff and (d) to promote community
development. The two services of the department, extension and training,
would be staffed each by a local technical specialist, on fixed term contract,
whose terms of preference and contracts would be approved by IDA. The project
would cover (a) incremental salaries, operating costs and equipment for the
service; (b) 2.5 man year of technical assistance; (c) 14 months of
consultation to support the farming system analysis (d) 5 months of
consultation, from local NGOs, to adapt the extension system to respond to the



- 25 -
specific problems of women farmers. The recruitment of the two local
technical specialists and of the technical assistant, and the appointment of
the Chief of the Extension Service and of the Training Service would be a
condition of disbursement for the MOAL's Central Services and RDC's
Agricultural Services components.
4.13     The Personnel and Budget Department would prepare and manage the
budget for extension activities and would progressively administrate all
extension staff presently working in projects on RDCs. It would also
coordinate the management of leasing contracts for the renewal of motorcycles
and bicycles of project staff by the provinces. Under these contracts,
project staff would be granted a monthly transport allowance to cover the cost
of maintenance, repair and gas to make installment payments of needed
motorcycles and bicycles. The project would finance staffing, office
equipment and operation of the Unit.
2. Strengthening of Agricultural Research
4.14     National Fertilizer Research Program (NFRP).  The project would
support the National Fertilizer Research Program (NFRP) whose main objectives
would be to: (i) delineate the conditions that favor fertilizer use on
fooderops cultivated on higher altitude soils, including fertilizer from
indigenous resources; and (ii) identify fertilizer recommendations that take
into account the diversity of soils and ecological conditions. On-farm tests
would be implemented in four natural regions, Kirimiro, Buyenzi, Bututsi and
Bweru. Special attention would be given to fertilizers produced from local
resources, presently under trial by the International Fertilizer Development
Center (IFDC) through a Fertilizer Action Plan implemented by the Ministry of
Public Works, Energy and Mines, with the support of the World Bank. This
program consists of the collection of 30 tons of natural phosphates from local
resources, and the processing of limited quantities of various kind of
fertilizers so that they can be extensively evaluated. The latter phase would
be part of the NFRP. The project would finance laboratory and transportation
equipment, research personnel in ISABU and FACAGRO, five years of an agro-
pedologist expert for FACAGRO and operating cost for field tests in about 300
farms.
4.15     Phytosanitary Researc' Service.  ISABU will strengthen its
phytosanitary research service, to be staffed with 2 research specialists (one
expatriate and one national), with qualifications and terms of reference
including a focus on developing and promoting integrated pest management
(IPM), and 15 phytopathology inspectors who would act as plant protection
subject matter specialists, one for each province. The service activities
would include: support to MOAL's Crop Protection Department in the
development of a nationwide plant protection program, including national
regulation on pesticide usage consistent with the requirements of IDA's
pesticide guidelines (OPN 11.01); the strengthening of interaction among
scientists, extension workers and farmers, including evaluation of the impact
of pest control recommendations. The project would finance the research
specialists and the salaries and operating costs of the provincial
inspections. The adoption of a national regulation on pesticide usage
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of second tranche release.



- 26 -
4.16     Reorftanization of Agricultural Research.  The project would
strengthen ISABU capability for monitoring and evaluating the experiment of a
new organization of agricultural research: the Regional Interdisciplinary
Research Workshops. The project would finance studies and consulting
services.
3. Reoritanization and Strenathenint of RDC's Agricultural Services
a) Provincial Agricultural Extension Services
4.17     Extension services, as they are currently operating in Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs, are already adhering to the three basic principles of the
training and visit system:  (a) establishing time-bound and well supervised
work programs; (b) regular training of staff at all levels; and (c) linkages
between Research and Extension.
4.18     However, there is a need to make changes in both content and
organization to increase their efficiency. In short: (a) a better
understanding and consideration of farmers' needs and problems including food
security and the specific needs of women and of young farmers is necessary;
(b) better backstopping and training of extension agents and zone officers
through the appointment of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) is required; (c)
separation between services activities and commercial activities is urgently
needed, extension agents would be relieved from their input distribution and
credit duties; and (d) in order to improve coordination and research linkages,
the responsibility for extension services would be transferred from the RDCs
to the Provincial Coordinator of MOAL, starting in PY4 and cooperation with
ISABU would be enhanced (paras. 4.23 and 5.11).
4.19     Essential for a better understanding of farmer practices and problems
is the undertaking of 'farming system assessments". Under the project this
will be initiated in groups of two to three communes per province. These
would collect data on soil fertility, land tenure and usage, economic
development, production and cultivation practices, food security, in order to
come to an area zoning and a farm topology. This analysis would form the
basis for assessment of farmers' constraints and objectives, identification,
support and extension of farmers' promising cultivation practices, and design
of an on-farm testing of new technologies. A similar approach has been
successfully used by ISABU's Small Farming System project implemented with
support of USAID in Karuzi Province and will be applied under the Muyinga
project.
4.20     Strengthening of the extension service under the project would be
achieved by: (a) introduction of farming system assessments; (b) expanding
the new extension approach in 17 additional communes in Kirimiro region
(Gitega, Muramviya, Karuzi provinces); (c) utilization of SMS through the
recruitment of four SMS in Kirimiro region (two for Karuzi province and two
for Muramvya province); and (d) cooperation with ISABU' Regional Research
Units (para. 1.25).  The project would finance the construction and equipment
of 11 communal centers and the equipment and incremental operating costs of
agricultural services staff in the 17 additional communes.



- 27 -
b) Trainina
4.21     The project would support two different types of training activities:
technical in-service training of agricultural services staff and more general
training on economic and agricul%ural development for provincial and communal
staff. Training would be held in the regional training centers built and
equipped in Ngozi and Gitega by the Ngozi III and the Kirimiro projects
respectively. The project would provide for the operating costs of the
centers. The management of the centers would be transferred over three years
from the RDC to MOAL's Extension Department.
c) Adaptive Research
4.22     The basic structure for adaptive research has been largely
established during the Kirimiro project. However it would take some time for
the adaptive research program to produce results suitable for incorporation in
extension messages and substanitial scope remains for improving the focus and
relevance of adaptive research.
4.23     First,  adaptive research activities in the five programs covered by
the project would be integrated in the overall program of ISABU Regional
Interdisciplinary Research Workshops under creation with the support of
Belgian bilateral aid in Ngozi and of USAID in Gitega. Second, the coffee
research program would be the responsibility of ISABU and all trials currently
implemented by the RDC that have led to confusion and duplication would be
terminated. Third, researchlextension/services linkages would be improved
through the development of on-farm research which would be integrated in ISABU
regional programs. On-farm research would include Researcher-Managed on-farm
trials and would be used, eventually, to formulate location specific messages.
The SMS would be accountable for a target, depending on circumstances, of
about 10-15 key Researcher-Managed on-farm trials per season. These farms
would be selected at the colline level among volunteers. Colline meetings
would discuss the content of the trials. Extension agents would be involved
in the supervision of Farmer-Managed on-farm trials. The project would
finance the cost of adaptive research. Nine months of consulting services
would be provided to design the program, liaise with ISABU and train local
staff. Research/extension linkages would be reassessed by PY4 in the light of
the experience with the Regional Interdisciplinary Research Workshops.
d) Livestock Services
4.24     The project would strengthen livestock services in the Provinces of
Muramvya, Karusi, Gitega, Ngozi, and Kayanza. In Muramvya province the
project would complement the on-going Livestock project supported by French
bilateral aid. The livestock services, already integrated in the Provincial
Coordinations, would be re-oriented towards the public sector task of
extension, prevention of the main epidemic diseases and sanitary control.
Improved management and operational principles would be introduced to enhance
the efficiency of the currently loosely organized extension staff. These
principles would be in accordance with the T and V system. Wherever possible,



- 28 -
livestock extension tasks would be integrated with the crop extension service
to ensure a unified message at farm level.
4.25     The project would also support the establishment of herders
association's pharmacies to facilitate the distribution, at full cost
recovery, of drugs and other inputs that do not require the intervention of
trained veterinary staff. The pharmacies would be formed exclusively on the
basis of initial contributions of the members and thereafter from profit
margins on the sale of drugs. The project would fund training for livestock
technicians and herders associations, basic veterinarian tools, motorcycles on
credit for livestock technicians and associated recurrent costs. During the
first three years, the project would also finance prescription drugs out of a
revolving fund. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that from January 1,
1992, in addition to Government budget allocations, non salary operating
expenses of the livestock agents would be financed from the livestock
services' margin on drug sales.
e) Environment Protection
4.26     Forestry services in the RDCs would be returned to the Forestry
Department which is assisted by the on-going Forestry Project II (Cr. 1620-
BU). This would include existing rural forestry nurseries currently managed
by the RDCs.
4.27     The project would support land protection in 5 provinces throught the
definition of priority erosion control areas, the design of adapted
techniques, and the financing of planting material for vegetative contour
hedges at commune level for 3 consecutive years.
4.28     Bottom lands, swampy areas and grazing lands are part of the communal
lands. Swamp development for rice, beans and sweet potatoes cultivation is
supported by the UNDP financed/FAO executed pilot project covering the three
provinces of Muyinga, Kirundo and Karuzi. The many swampy (generally peaty)
valley bottoms in Kayanza and Ngozi province are part of a delicate ecological
and hydrological system, which could be destroyed by unguided development by
farmers and local authorities. Inadequate road crossings of these bottom
lands which have been built in the past often lead to upstream water logging
and excessive drainage and erosion downstream.  In collaboration with ISABU
and with the UNDP/FAO project, the RDC's rural works department is
experimenting in providing protection of selected swamps where traditional
cultivation methods are provoking excessive drainage. The project would
finance the protection of 1,000 ha over a five year period in Kayanza and
Ngozi provinces. Works would be executed by Buyenzi RDC during the first
three years of the project, and by MLDTE's Rural Works Department thereafter.
f) Management of Buvenzi and Kirimiro RDC Reorganization
4.29     The team in charge of the RDCs' reorganization would in each RDC,
consist of the RDC director and three high level local specialists:  a
management specialist, a chief accountant, and a input promotion officer.
This team would be assisted by a monitoring and evaluation unit and would
recruit a management expert for 2 years. The technical assistant and the
local specialist would be recruited with qualifications, terms and conditions



- 29 -
acceptable to IDA. The operating costs of the managerial teams over five
years would be supported by the project which would also provide for 33 man-
months of specialized consultants for the two RDCs.
4. Promotion of Rural Youth Employment and Communal Development
4.30     Agreement was reached at negotiations to change the scope of the
Marangara Commune Action Plan identified during IDA's mission of information
and dialogue in October 1988 following the August tragic events. The rapid
return of refugees has mobilized generous support from the international
community and a special program financed through an IDA credit is no more
necessary for the Marangara commune. However, the Government would like to
address the issues identified by the program, at a more significant scale.
The socio-economic integration of the rural youth and more specifically of the
primary school leavers, and the relations between the communal administration
and the population would be addressed, on a pilot basis, in two provinces
instead of a single commune.
a) Pilot Communal Development Program
4.31     The project would promote the involvement of the communal
administration in programming and implementing agriculture and rural
development programs, through the preparation of pilot communal development
plans. As an administrative and social unit the commune would provide an
adequate framework for inter-sectorial coordination. Other public services
such as health and education would be given an opportunity to provide their
input in the design of annual work plans for the extension servlces.  In the
context of GOB's recent reform of communal administration, the project would
provide support to MOAL's Provincial Coordinators in the Ngozi and Muramvya
provinces (audio-visual equipment, workshops, surveys, studies, and
consultants).
b) Promotion of Rural Youth Employment
4.32     The project would support a special initiative for the promotion of
employment of rural youth with the technical support of a local or
international NGO. This type of action has been identified by the project on
the Social Dimension of Adjustment building on the experience of an Italian
NGO in Karuzi Province. The proposed initiative would seize the opportunity
offered by the reorganization of the two RDCs, in helping them to identify
current RDC's activities which could be transferred to youth groups. Possible
activities include: the production of forest and fruit tree seedlings in
private nurseries, distribution of agricultural inputs, production of improved
seeds under contract with the RDCs and eventu&lly with MOAL's Crop Production
Department, operation of cereal mills and rice hulling machines, production of
new export crops such as green beans, poultry, and road maintenance by
labor-gangs. The initiative would focus on a pilot basis on Ngozi and
Muramvya provinces. The project would support a three year contract with an
NGO, a promotion fund, and a training fund.



- 30 -
5. Cooperative Development
a) MRDH's Cooperative Department Reorganization
4.33     The proposed component would support the Implementation of the new
cooperative development policy (para. 3.09) through the creation of a
Cooperative Federation. For this purpose, a Cooperative Promotion Committee
(CPC), composed of representatives of cooperatives, foreign donors and NGOs,
and MRDH, would be created at the beginning of the project. The role of the
CPC would be to translate the new cooperative development policy into
operational programs, and coordinate the support and activities of the various
donors agencies and Government services involved in cooperative development.
It is expected that the Federation would be established and operational by the
end of PY4. The CPC and eventually the Cooperative Federation would take over
the following functions from MRDH's Cooperative Department: (i) support to
cooperative management, including assistance in accountancy; (ii) training of
cooperative staff; (iii) annual audit and regular supervision; (iv)
coordination of external support to cooperatives.
4.34     The law on cooperative has been recently amended to reflect the new
cooperative policy, and primary cooperatives and cooperative unions would be
rehabilitated with the alm of strengthening viable units and liquidating
cooperatives not supported by members or in a state of bankruptcy.
4.35     The project would provide 30 man-months of a cooperative management
advisor to MRDH's Cooperative Department, office technology, and funds for
training and studies. The cooperative management advisor would act as
executive secretary of the CPC. The establishment of the CPC, including the
appointment of the technical assistance on cooperative management to MRDH's
Cooperative Department, and presentation to IDA of the new cooperative
development policy would be a condition of disbursement for this component.
The support would complement the assistance made available to the same
department by the recently signed Muyinga Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 1857-BU).
4.36     The project would not finance cooperative investments in marketing
facilities (storage and transport). Institutionally sound cooperative
enterprises would be in a position to make adequate financial arrangements for
investments and working capital with the local banking system.
b) COOPEC Development
4.37     This component would provide additional support for the development
of Savings and Credit cooperatives (COOPEC) by financing investment and
initial operating costs for three years, of 40 additional COOPECs and two
regional offices which would complete the coverage of the country. It would
be implemented by the Central COOPEC Office with management assistance of the
French "Centre International du Credit Mutuel"(CICH) under an agreement
between French bilateral assistance and GOB. Parallel financing would be
provided the French Bilateral Assistance andlor by the European Development
Fund (EDF), to cover technical assistance costs. Signing of a cooperation
agreement providing for the continuation of assistance by CICM to the Central
COOPEC Office would be a ccd.ition of disbursement for this component.



- 31 -
D. Prolect Costs
Costs
4.38           Project incremental costs have been estimated at FBU 6,206
million or US$ 40.0 million of which FBU 4,538 million or USS 29.3 million
represent foreign exchange costs. Base cost estimates reflect March 1987
prices updated to the negotiating date of February 1989. Project costs
sumnarized in Table 2 include a quick disbursing component of FBU 1,442
million or US $9.3 million. Taxes have been estimated at FBU .4 million or US
$ 1.0 million, about 3 percent of total project costs. Equipment imported for
the project and expenditures related to technical assistance would be exempt
from import duties and taxes, whereas taxes would be generated for work
performed locally. The construction and civil works program is contained in
the detailed cost tables in the Implementation Volume.
4.39           Physical contingencies varying from 10 to 15 percent have been
applied to selected categories to reflect uncertainties regarding detailed
quantities and possible design modifications. Price contingencies have been
calculated for local and foreign exchange costs on the basis of projected
inflation rates as shown below:
Table 1
Price Contimencies
Project Year         0         1        2        3         4        5
Calendar Year      1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
-----------------------percent-------------------
Local             6.00      5.00     4.5      4.0       3.50     3.50
Foreign           3.30      3.70     4.10     5.70      4.90     4.75



-32-
OUNDI
AGRICItLn1tA SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
MROJECT COST SUARY
(FBW  '00)                    (US '000)                   2 Total
2 Foresn  Pase
Local     Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign  Tota:   Exchanae   Costs
=z==#=  zzz=s=_:::z -===zz=   zzs; z==3a-  ==- s = ::-z   zz =3
A. Hax CNTRAL SERVICES
PLANNIING DEARTMENT ( DOPA )              315.331.3  495,866.2  811,197.5  2.034.4 3.199.1  59233.5       61      15
FINAUCIAL AND ANItNISTRATIVE tWIT         28,471.4   11t027.8   39Y499.2    183.7    71.1   254.8         28       1
NATIONL XENSION UNIT                      669738.6  283,145.8  349t884.4    430.6 1.826.7 2.257.3        It        6
Sub-Total 110 CENT. SERVICES                410,541.3  790,039.8 1.200.591.1  2,648.7 5.097.0 7,745.7       66       22
P. REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
1. KIRIlIIRO RUC
PROMOTIN  1 M1N. AND EVA               102,226.9  185,264.3  287,491.2    659.5 1.195.3  1,854.8       64       5
EITSION SERVICES                       160,010.1  233.939.3  393.849.3  1.032.3 1,508.6 2,541.0        59       7
TRAINLIN                                289363.8   28,l43.2   56,507.0    183.0   41i.6   364.6        50       1
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                       23M724.2   24717.4   489441.5    153.1   159.5   312.5         51       1
LVESTO                                   2.005.5   3&628.2    5.633.7      12.9    23.4    36.3        64       0
ENVIRMWT PROTECTIOIIN                   11*088.6   25,268.1   36,35b.7     71.5   163.0   234.6        70       1
5th-Total KRIRIIRODC                      327o419.0  5900860.4  8289279*4  2.112.4 3,231.4 5.343.7        60      15
2. SUMZI RDC
PROMTON P ONIT. AND EIAL               1029360.4  190,200.5  m560.9    660.4 1,227.1 1,897.5           65       5
EXENSION SERVICES                       20,177.9   5294.6   72,7m.6    130.2   339.3   469.5           72       1
TRAINING                                25,668.6   25,143.9   50,a12.5    165.6   162.2   327.8        49       1
ADAPTMVE RESEARCH                       17,503.8   14083.7   31.587.6    112.9    90.9   203.8         45       1
TOCK                                     1,960.7    3,547.3    5,508.0     12.6    22.9    35.5        64       0
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION                  56,366.8  128,446,2  18413.0    363.7   828.7 1,192.3          70       3
qub-Total 8WENZI RDC                     224,038.4  4144016.2  638,054.6  1,s445.4 2,671.1 4,116.5        65      12
3. RURAL YOUTH FROGRAM                    47,297.6  V87466.5  134,7641    305.1   564.3   869.4           65       2
4. CwAL DEEPENT                           46,5.W7   86,656.6  133,516.3    302.3   559.1   861.4          65       2
ft-Total REUM. ARiiLt    SERVCES            64S,614.6 1w89.ms 1,734,614.4  4,165.3 7tM5.8 11,191.1          63       32
C. RESEARCH
1. FERTILIZER RESEAR
TISBU                                  104,641.5   99,978.1  204,519.6    675.1   644.4 1,319.5        49       4
FA6RO                                   38,663.1  145,664.7  184,327.7    249.4   939.8  1,189.2       79       3
5th-Total FERTIER RESEA                   143,304.6  245s.42.9  3a8847.3    924.5 1,584.1 2.508.7         63       7
2. PHTTOSAITART IN OECTIONS                77923.1   64,971.7  142894.8    502.7   419.2   921.9          45       3
3. RESEoa  RE8NIZATIN                      8,758.8   16,197.5   24,956.3     56.5   104.5   161.0         65       0
Ur-Tatal RESEARO                            229,986.5  326h711.9  556,698.5  1,483.8 2,107.8 3,591.6         59      to
0. OWERATIVE DEVELOPENT
NOR CETIWE  lEPRMNT                        60,826.8  207,390.1  268,216.9    392.4 1,338.0 1,730,4        7        5
]  COEC                                   E81457.1  178,935.1  260r392.2    525.5 11154.4  1,679.9        69       5
5t-Total CPATIVE DEVELOPMNT                  142t293.8  386,325.2  529,609.1    919n0 29492.4 3,410.4        73      10
E. SIPORT TO ADJOSTIENT
AERICOLTUIIA  DPIJS                              - 1,441500.0 14415s000         - 9,300.0 9,300.0        100      26
|SuieTotl SMMPRT TO ADWUSMT                         - 1441,500.0 19441500.0           9,300.0 9,300.0       100      26
To4I SASELINE COSTS                          1,428,426.3 4,033,576.7 5462,003.0  97215.7 26,023.1 35,238.7    74      100
Physical Coti twetel,s                      1004328.1  186,807.5  287,135.6    647.3 1,205.2  1,852.S       65       5
Price CntUlimncil                           139r388.8  317,405.2  456794.0    ff9.3  2,047.8 2,947.1        69       8
Tobl PIO= COS                               196684143.1 4537,799.5 6.205v932.6 10,762.2 29,276.1 40,038.3     73      114
sa=mm       ,23in         .         m      228 3C2 =2 .
O' '-ich taxes                             182,296.8    -.         182,296.8 1,176.1  -   1,176.1           -        32



- 33 -
E. FinancinR
4.40     The financing plan of project costs is summarized in Table 3.
Table 3
Financtnt Plan
Million FBu Million  US S   percent of Total
IDA                            5,134         33.1              83
Government of Burundi            833          5.4              13
French Assistance/ EDF            69          0.4               1
Belgian Assistance               127           .8               2
COOPEC                            43          0.3               1
Total                       6,206         40.0             100
4.41     The Government would finance 13.4 percent of total project costs
equivalent to 13.5 percent of project costs net of taxes, or 18 percent of the
costs of the investment part of the project. About 19.3 percent of the
Government's contribution would be applied against the cost of incremental
salaries and indemnities of Government staff in the five provinces and in
central services of MOAL and MRD. In addition to its share of project costs,
the Government would also finance the current operating costs of agricultural
services in the five provinces covered by the pro,ect. An agreement has been
reached at negotiations that Government financing or the cost of salaries of
existing staff in the seventeen new communes covered by Kirimiro RDC would
continue to oe funded through the Government's budget.
4.42     The IDA credit would finance 82.7 percent of total cost.  Financing
would include (net of taxes): project costs related to construction and swamp
protection infrastructure, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance except
for COOPEC and for the Fertilizer Research components, training, research and
studies, and part of the operating costs. IDA would also finance 100 percent
of the quick disbursing component. The donors would finance all technical
assistance for the COOPEC and for the Fertilizer Research components. The
COOPECs would finance progressively their operating expenses.



- 34 -
F.  Procurement
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element            ICB        LCB      Other    N.A.         Cost     (IDA)
-------US$ Million--------------------
Construction                           1.2                                      1.2
(1.1)                                    (1.1)
Land protection works                                      1.9        1.9
(1.8)                (1.8)
Equipment                     .8        .3         .1                 1.2
(.8)      (.2)       (.1)                         (1.1)
Vehicles                    2.4                    .1                 2.5
(2.4)                 (.1)                         (2.5)
Training                                          2.2                 2.2
(1.9)                         (1.9)
Research, Studies                                5.0                  5.0
(4.5)                         (4.5)
Technical Assistance                              7.2                 7.2
(5.9)                         (5.9)
Operating Costs                                            9.5        9.5
;                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(5.0)   (5.0)
Quick Disbursing Component
Inputs                      4.5                  4.8                 9.3
(4.5)                (4.8)                         (9.3)
Total                       7.7       1.5       19.4     11.4       40.0      (33.1)
(7.7)     (1.3)     (17.3)    (6.8)     (33.1)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by ID'.
4.43     Separate works contracts would be awarded for office rehabilitation
(US$ O.lm), communal ceaters construction (US$ 1.Om), and COOPEC Regional
Offices (US$ O.lm) after local competitive bidding (LCB) in which RDC's civil
works autonomous units would be able to compete provided it could be
demonstrated that they meet the eligibility criteria of Public Sector
Enterprises stipulated in para (a) to (d) of IDA Operational Directive No 11.
This procedure would be appropriate as the isolated location of the country
and the nature of the construction, i.e. many separate and relatively small
contracts make it unlikely that any firm not based in Burundi would be
interested to bid. Erosion control works and swamp protection (US$ 1.9m)
would be done on force account by the RDCs and the farmers as local and
interrational contractors would not be interested in this type of works,
because of a number of small small size contracts and remote and scattered
locations. Vehicles (US$ 2.4m) computers (US$ 0.3m), and other office
equipments (US$ 0.5m) would be procured through ICB. Other equipment and



- 35 -
furniture (US$ 0.3m) would be grouped whenever possible into contracts valued
at US$ 20,000 or more and would be procured through LCB. Contracts for
vehicles, equipment, spare parts, office and laboratory supplies (including
operating costs), valued at less than the equivalent of US$20,000 up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000 may be procured
through local and where necessary international shopping based on a least
three quotations. Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$2,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of US$100,000 may be procured directly with the suppliers. Individual
overseas training (US$ 0.8m), identified by the human resources programming
(para. 4.08), and local training (US$ 1.4m) by DGPA, ISABU, FACAGRO, MRD,
COOPEC and the RDCs, would be reviewed and agreed by IDA, most likely on the
basis of selective international of local competitive basis. Studies and
research contracts (US$ 5.0m) would be awarded and consultants for technical
assistance (US$ 7.2m) would be recruited in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Technical assistance to COOPEC would be provided by CICM under financing by
French bilateral assistance and/or the European Development Fund. Technical
assistance for FACAGRO would be provided by Belgian bilateral assistance.
4.44     All civil works to be financed under the proposed credit would
require prior IDA review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and draft
contracts. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture, estimated to cost
more than US$ 80,000 would require prior review of bidding documents, bid
evaluation and draft contracts. A margin of preference of 15 percent of CIF
bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed for
domestic manufacturers only for ICB procurements.
4.45     A Bank mission visited Burundi in March 1986 to assess procurement
procedures. The mission found that, on the whole, existing rules and
procedures in Burundi are acceptable from the point of view of Bank policy.
However, Government procurement procedures were modified by Decree No. 100/68
of April 27, 1987 which approves the I Cahier General des Charges Applicables
aux Marches de Travaux Publics de Travaux, Fournitures et Services".
Reference made in these new procedures to preference for local firms may not
be in conformity with Bank's own guidelines. Government procurement
procedures would be considered acceptable if no special preference of the kind
referred to in Article 11.3 of Title I of the Decree or Article 17 of Title II
of the Decree would be given to local firms. Government agreement for this
modification has been obtained in a supplementary letter; it has already
agreed to this modification for the Muyinga Agricultural Development Project,
for the Population and Health project, and the Education project.
4.46     Policy Component.  Procurements of lots valued above US$ 0.5 million
equivalent would follow the Bank's ICB guidelines and would require prior IDA
review of bidding documents, bid evaluation, and draft contracts. Procurement
of fertilizers by the RDCs would be procured through ICB and grouped into
packages of at least USO.5 million whenever possible. International shopping
would be used for lot between US$ 100,000 and US$ 0.5 million up to an
aggregate value of US$ 2 million. Lots valued below US$ 100,000 could be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods.



- 36 -
G. Disbursements
4.47     IDA disbursements by category are presented in Annex 4.  Funds from
the Credit account would be disbursed over 7 years beginning the first
semester of IDA FY 90 through the second semester of FY 96. The disbursement
schedule presented in Annex 4, is similar to the disbursements profile for
Burundi credits for the investment element of the project.
4.48     In order to facilitate the flow of funds and to ensure that they are
available when needed, a Special Account would be setup in USS in a local
bank. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$ 2.0 million in this account
which corresponds to an average of four months of expenditures eligible under
IDA financing. The Government counterpart funds for: Central Services,
Fertilizer Research, Phytosanitary Inspections, Cooperative Development,
COOPEC, Pilot programs, would be made available to MOAL on a quarterly basis.
Each installment, which would represent one-fourth of the yearly estimated
contribution, would be deposited in a Project account administered by MOAL's
Administrative and Financial Unit. For components implemented by Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs, Government counterpart funds would be made available under the
same conditions and deposited in the RDC Central Bank accounts. In addition
to its contribution to project costs, the GovQrument would take over salaries
and operating costs of existing extension staff currently under the RDCs'
budgets. These funds would be included as a specific line in MOAL's budget
for each of the five provinces concerned.
4.49     Three-year Program-Budgets (P-B) would be prepared by the different
implementing units, as part of the Public Expenditure Program. They would
specify, among other things, the amounts to be financed out of the Credit
during the following year and proposed procurement procedures. Disbursement
applications would be centralized by the DGPA. Requests for disbursements
vould be fully documented according to IDA procedures. Reimbursement for
civil works contracts of less than US$ 50,000, other contracts of less than
US$ 20,000, training programs approved by the Bank, and operating costs would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Whenever possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$ 100,000 or more
prior to submission to the IDA for reimbursement out of the credit proceeds.
Documentation pertaining to SOEs would be retained by: DGPA, Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDC, MRD's Cooperative Department, COOPEC's Central Office, ISABU,
FACAGRO and would be available for inspection in the course of IDA supervision
missions.
4.50     Policy Component.  Credit proceeds for the policy component of the
credit would be released in two tranches, with the second tranche contingent
upon satisfactory progress in carrying ovt the sectoral adjustment program.
The total of US$ 9.3 million of quick disbursing monies would be disbursed
against imports of fertilizer (estimated at US$ 4.5 million), phytosanitary
products (US$ 2.8 million); veterinary products, tools and equipment for
agricultural production (US$ 2.0 million). These amounts reflect two-years of
estimated foreign exchange needs for these items. Goods, materials and
equipment financed under the credit would be purchased abroad by local
commercial firms, RDCs and cooperative unions. The Government would be able
to purchase veterinary products.



- 37 -
4.51     The release of the first tranche (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) would
be contingent upon: submission of a satisfactory budget for 1989 and of the
draft budget 1990 for Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs, a 252 increase in the
consumer price of fertilizer sold by the RDCs, presentation to IDA of an
acceptable action plan for the reorganization of the management of Buyenzi
RDC's rice mills and establishment of a Fertilizer Policy Committee. The
second tranche (US$ 4.9 million equivalent) is expected to be released about
twelve months later on the following conditions: adoption of a national seed
program and of a national regulation or pesticide usage, implementation of the
administrative transfer of RDC extension staff in at least two provinces,
adoption of the 1990-93 PEP for the agricultural sector, and starting
implementation of the new salary policy. Proceeds from the IDA Credit would
be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign costs of eligible goods. A
special account for IDA deposits would be established in the Central Bank with
an initial deposit of US$ 1 million equivalent. All disbursements would be
fully documented except for those for imports costing less than USS 100,000
which will be based on statements of expenditure.
B. Accounts and Audits
4.52     Accounts.  Accounts for the project activities to be implemented by
the RDCs would be kept by their financial managers. Accounts of provincial
agricultural services would be kept by the Provincial Coordinators assisted by
two accountants. Accounts for the Cooperative component would continue to be
kept as they are at present, i.e. by the Inspection and Control Services of
the MRDH's Cooperative Department. Accounts for the COOPEC component would be
kept by the COOPEC's Central Office in Gitega. Those pertaining to MOAL's
central services, ISABU and FACAGRO's research activities would be kept by the
Financial and Administrative Unit to be created in the Ministry of
Agriculture. MOAL's DGPA General Director would have overall responsibility
for the consolidation of project accounting and financial reporting consistent
with IDA guidelines. He would be assisted by a Project accountant who will
coordinate procurement and disbursement procedures, and prepare annual
financial statements.
4.53     Audits.  All project accounts as well as the Special Account would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. In addition, the accounts
of the following implementing agencies would be also audited. Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs, ISABU, the Cooperative Promotion Committee, the Cooperative
Federation and COOPEC Central Office. The auditors' terms of reference would
include a specific audit of SOEs. Audit reports would be submitted to IDA
within six months after the close of the financial year and IDA would be
allowed to review all project accounts and records. Assurances to this effect
have been obtained at negotiations.
I. Environmental Impact
4.54     Both policy measures and investment activities would have a positive
impact on the environment. The Phytosanitary Unit would design the national
regulation on pesticides usage which is presently lacking. The suppression of



- 38 -
subsidies on agricultural inputs sold through the public sector would have a
positive effect on the environment as it is expected to discourage over-use of
agrochemicals. On the investment side, soil conservation, agro-forestry
promotion, and swamp protection would make an important contribution to
environmental improvement.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Ortanization and Manatement
General
5.01     MOAL's DGPA would be responsible for coordinating implementation of
the following project components: (i) MOAL strengthening; (ii) Agricultural
Research Strengthening; (iii) Buyenzi RDC reorganization; (iv) Kirimiro RDC
reorganization; (v) Pilot proarams. Coordinating implementation of the
Cooperative component would be under the Director General of Handicraft,
Cooperatives and Rural Housing (DGHCRH).
5.02     Day to day management and administration of activities would be
delegated to the Managers of the involved departments services such as:
MOAL's Planning Department Directors; the General Director for Extension; the
Directors of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs; the Director of ISABU; the Director of
the Cooperative Department; the Director of COOPEC's central office.
5.03     DGPA's Director General and DGHCRH's Director General would
coordinate preparation and subsequent monitoring of the three-year budget-
programs and updating of their annual tranches. They would also coordinate
preparation of periodic status reports as requi.red by the Ministers.
MOAL's Planning Directorate, and Financial and Administrative Unit
5.04     In order to attract and keep qualified national staff the project
would would recruit and equip the following specialists:
(i)   Two sector Planners would work in close connection with MOAL's
Agriculture and Livestock General Directorates. They would
coordinate preparation and updating of sectoral programs and
would be in charge of bi-annual updating and the Public
Investment Program (PIP) and Public Expenditure Program (PEP)
for the agriculture sector.
(ii)  A Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist would coordinate the
supervision of agricultural projects and services, monitor PEP,
execution, maintain the agriculture sector data bank and
supervise preparation of Project Completion Report.
(iii) The Management Advisor would train and counsel projects and
provincial accountants, develop management and accounting
procedures, and supervise the reorganization of Buyenzi and
Kirimiro RDCs.



- 39 -
(iv) The Project Accountant would assist the DOPA and would be
responsible for project accounting (para. 4.52). He would
finalize tender documents, prepare bid evaluation reports in
association with the managers involved, prepare disbursement
applications and handle all procurement-disbursement
correspondance with IDA. He would manage the two special
accounts.
(v)   The training coordinators would coordinate human resources
programming, prepare the training programs and supervise the
vocational schools.
(vi)  The Chief Accounting Officer would be responsible for MOAL's
annual budget preparation and control, and internal audit of
projects and services. He would participate in the preparation
the terms of reference of external financial and management
audits, and would be located in the Financial and
Administrative Unit.
5.05     These specialists would be recruited on fixed term contracts for the
duration of the project, under qualifications, term of reference, and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Appointment of staff under (i), (ii), and (iii)
would be a condition of disbursement for MOAL's Central Services and Buyenzi
and Kirimiro agricultural services components.
Agricultural Extension Services
5.06     Overall responsibility for agricultural extension activities would be
with the Director of the MOAL5s General Directorate for Extension. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that long-term manpower projections and training
programs would be prepared and submitted to IDA for review no later than March
1990.
5.07     During the first three years of the project, implementation of the
extension programs in Muramvya, Gitega and Karuzi Provinces would be the
responsibility of the respective Provincial Coordinators for Agriculture and
Livestock who would continue to report directly to the Kirimiro SRD Director.
In Kayanza and Ngozi provinces, the implementation of the extension programs
would fall under the responsibility of the respective Heads of the Provincial
Extension Services who would act as Provincial Coordinators and report
directly to the Buyenzi RDC Director.  In PY3, a joint Bank-Government review
would decide upon the modalities for transferring the authority on provincial
agricultural services from the RDCs' Director to MOAL's General Directorate
for Extension.
5.08     In each region, the basic field management unit would continue to be
at the "commune" level with a Communal Agronomist (CA) in charge
hierarchically of the Agricultural Assistant Officers (MAO) and the Extension
Agents (EA). The CA would be responsible to the Provincial Coordinator or to
the Provincial Extension Service head. The MAO would plan and supervise the
activities of 8 to 10 EAs. The EAs would relay a series of seasonably
appropriate technical messages to the farmers. Each EA would continue to be
assigned to a colline containing between 700 and 1200 farms, subdivided into



- 40 -
eight farmer groups each of which is visited regularly one day every two
weeks. The EA's remaining time would be devoted to training and debriefing.
The SMS would be posted in teams of three to five in each of the provinces,
and would spend a third of their time in field visits providing technical
support and guidance to EAs and AAOs, one third in building a stock of
knowledge through regular dialogue with research workers and by carrying out
farm trials, and the balance of their time organizing fortnightly sessions to
learn from farmers' needs and practices and to familiarize the EOs and AAOs
with the technical recommendations to be transmitted to the farmers during the
following two weeks period.
5.09     Regular training is considered a fundamental and important part of
the T and V extension system. One SMS in each of the five provinces of the
project area would be designated Training Coordinator and would be responsible
for the planning and organization of fortnightly training sessions in the
Province. The Training Coordinators world be responsible to the RDC head of
training during the first three years of the project and to the Provincial
Coordinators afterwards.  SMS capability to train and provide technical
support to EOs and MAOs would be regularly improved through workshops to be
organized by the Extension Department training specialists (para. 4.12).
Livestock Services
5.10     Livestock Services would operate under the direct responsibility of
the Director General for Livestock. Implementation of the Livestock program
would be done by MOAL's animal health provincial services under the MOAL
Provincial coordinators. RDC current livestock activities would be
transferred to MOAL's animal health and production provincial services by the
end of PY1.
Research/Extension linkages
5.11     The creation by ISABU of Regional Research Units in each of Burundi's
natural regions will create a stimulating environment for research/extension
linkages. The on-farm trials executed under resporisibility of the extension
services would be part of the adaptive research program executed by ISABU
Regional Interdisciplanry Workshops Units. The relations between ISABU and
the provincial extension services would work both ways. ISABU's applied and
adaptive on-farm research programs would take into account specific requests
expressed by the extension services and the farmers. On the other side, the
extension services would receive the scientific support of ISABU for the
preparation of research protocols and for the analysis of their results.
Extension Agents would also be involved in the execution of ISABU's programs.
The cooperation between ISABU and the RDCs would be secured through annual
agreements between ISABU and the General Directorate for Extension. The
signature of the first annual agreement would be a condition of disbursement
for MOAL's central services and RDC's agricultural services components.
Erosion Control
5.12     The maintenance of planting material multiplication fields would be
organized at communal level through community works. The definition of
priority erosion control areas and the design of adapted techniques would be
the responsibility of MLDTE's Rural Works Department.



- 41 -
The National Fertilizer Research Proaram
5.13     ISABU would carry the Program's overall responsibility and would
enter into an agreement with FACAGRO, defining their role and responsibilities
in a manner satisfactory to IDA. They will work in collaboration with the
Kirimiro and Buyenzi RDCs, the Muyinga and the Bututsi Projects which would be
responsible for conducting field trials and demonstrations. An agro-
pedologist expert would be employed by FACAGRO for the implementation of the
program. Support from the RDCs and the Muyinga and Bututsi Projects would be
secured through an agreement with ISABU. The signature of agreements between
ISABU and FACAGRO on the one hand and ISABU, and the General Directorate for
Extension, and FACAGRO on the other hand would be a condition of disbursement
of the NFRP.
5.14     A Fertilizer Policy Committee, would be established with the
following attributions: (i) design the national policy on fertilizer
research, production and imports; (ii) coordinate annual imports from grants
and commercial procurements. This committee would be chaired by the Director
General of Agriculture and include participants from MOAL, Ministry of Energy
and Mines, and ISABU. The Committee would meet twice a year and provide a
formal mechanism for review of the ongoing and future programs. The
establishment of the Committee would be a condition of first tranche release.
B. Proarammina. Budtetinft. Monitorina and Evaluation
Programming and Budgeting
5.15     Implementation of all project components would be carried out on the
basis of three-year Program-Budgets (PBs) prepared by the different
implementing units: Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs, DGPA's Departments,
Agricultural Services Provincial Coordinators, ISABU, FACAGRO, MRDH's
Cooperative Department, COOPEC Central Office.  These PBs would be updated by
mid-September each year and integrated in the Public Expenditures Programs of
MOAL and MRDH. Budget approval would follow the procedures detailed in GOB's
policy statement on public expenditures agreed under the Second Adjustment
Credit. Submission to IDA of the 1990-1993 PEP would be a condition of second
tranche release.
5.16     Each P-B would include:  (i) detailed objectives and targets for the
program, with a description of activities, expected output and timing of
execution; (ii) an investment and operating budget for each component; (iii)
staffing and training plans; (iv) a financing plan for investment items and
for operating costs of services components; (v) projected income statements
from commercial activities; (vi) projected cash-flow from commercial
activities; and (vii) a procurement plan. A list of PBs supported by the
Project is in Annex 9. The annual update of PBs would be based on an
evaluation of the previous year's performance.
5.17     Administrative and financial procedures of public services would have
to be modified to reconcile technical efficiency with sound financial
monitoring. Therefore, budget execution of agricultural services would follow



- 42 -
principles already successfully applied in certain Government financed
projects: (i) quarterly allocations based on "program budgets"; (i$)
budgetary control done, a posteriori, under procedures similar to those
applied for IDA special accounts; and (iii) renewal of motorcycles and
bicycles under leasing procedures (location-vente). Until the Ministry of
Finance designs another mechanism, budget allocations would be transferred
through provincial coordinations' accounts. These accounts would be managed,
under the supervision of MOAL, by the Provincial Coordinator assisted by two
accountants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the operating
costs of the provincial agricultural services would be included In the PEP and
entirely supported by GOB Budget by PYS.
5.18     The annual tranches of the P-Bs at the commune level would constitute
the core of the communal development plan. The commune is indeed the adequate
level for integrating rural development activities because its geographical
area is ecologically homogenous; it is usually situated in a single natural
region, and through the "colline' unit, it is the administrative and political
institution closest to the farm. The project would support the preparation of
pilot communal development plans in two provinces (para 4.31). The provincial
agricultural services would support communal involvement in erosion control,
tree nurseries for agroforestry, management of communal forests, swamp
protection, and land distribution.
Monitorint and Evaluation
5.19     Monitoring and evaluation would be integrated in the programming and
budgeting process. Each unit responsible for the implementation of project
components would have its own information system, which it would use to update
three-year Program-Budgets. Evaluation of project impact at farm level would
be done through specific surveys carried out every two years possibly by the
National Service of Statistics (SNES) under terms of reference prepared by the
General Directorate for Extension and by MOAL's DGPA and reviewed by IDA.
5.20     MOALa's Monitoring/Evaluation and Management Assistance Department
would: (i) develop the monitoring and evaluation methodology and provide
implemeptation support to Provincial Coordinators; (ii) prepare terms of
reference for evaluation surveys and supervise their implementation; (iii)
supervise PBs' yearly updating; and (iv) prepare a Project Completion Report,
with inputs from the DGHCRH, no later than six month after the Credit closing
date. Progress reports would be prepared by September 30 of each year.
Annual reports would cover the two previous agricultural seasons and would be
sent to IDA for review. Agreement on issuance of progress reports and
preparation of the Project Completion Report was reached at negotiations.
5.21     Agreement has been reached at nogotiations to organize a joint
GovernmentlIDA mid-term review during PY3 with the following objectivest (i)
assess the progress with transferring administrative management of RDC's
extension staff; (ii) prepare the transfer of technical management and
extension staff to MOAL by PY4; (III) review the achievements of the new
extension methodology, and more specifically the links between research and
extension; (iv) review the proposals on the new salary system for agricultural
services' personnel; and (v) assess the performance of MRDH's Cooperative
Department in providing efficient services to cooperatives, and review the
progress in establishing a National Federation of Cooperatives.



- 43 -
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. MOAL Stren thenInx and RDC Reorganization
6.01     The project's main goal is to achieve greater efficiency in the
organization and in day-to-day activities of agricultural services. This
would translate into both better farming practices and significant savings in
Government investment and operating expenditures. Specifically (a) MOAL's
strengthening at the central level and the transfer of extension to its
provincial services is expected to achieve much better coordination within the
extension service, more efficient linkages between extension and research,
better programming of activities and better budget control; (b) changes within
the extension services are expected to achieve an increased awareness of
farming system constraints, and a greater capacity for adjustment to solve
them; and (c) the divestiture of commercial activities and/or the necessity to
make them self financing if executed by GOB agencies is expected to eliminate
high cost operations and result in important savings.
6.02     Focusing on sectoral planning and public expenditure programming and
monitoring would improve the cost effectiveness of public expenditures in the
agricultural sector, and improve the quality of sectoral programs and the
management of existing projects. Focusing monitoring and evaluation more on
policy program implementation and on monitoring of public expenditure would
give GOB for the first time the information needed to monitor adjustment in
one of the key sectors of the economy. This would permit better
communications and coordination among the ministries of Agriculture, Planning,
and Finance and strengthen the link between macroeconomic and project work in
Burundi's planning system.
6.03     Management assistance would be extended to agricultural services.
The development of budgeting and accounting procedures and the permanent
training of the staff responsible for their implementation would reduce the
risk of failure of the program.
6.04     The impact of the new organization of agricultural services on public
expenditures in the five provinces has been estimated as follow (details in
Annex 8 Appendix 1). After the end of the project, the proposed organization
would induce a reduction of public expenditures of about FBu 241 million from
the level of public expenditures which would be incurred by the continuation
of the existing RDC organization (including technical assistance), a reduction
of about 35 percent.  This saving will come mainly from full cost recovery of
input production and marketing, and self financing of commercial activities
(FBu 102 million), and a saving of abovt FBu 171 million in the cost of
technical assistance despite an increase in the cost of services (Flu 32
million). The savings on commercial activities would compensate this modest
increase (8 percent) in services resulting from better salaries and adequate;
operating costs. Better working conditions would enable Government to attract
and retain Burundian experts, thus speeding up the phasing out of foreign TA.
Experience with on-going projects shows that it is unrealistic to expect such
phasing out under the present salary structure of local staff. Under the
assumption that recurrent expenditures would be financed entirely by the
Government (with phasing out of technical assistance), the project would



- 44 -
induce a saving of about FBu 70 million per year by PY6 or about 15 percent of
total expenditures. Successful implementation of agricultural services reform
would decrease Government dependency over external financing (para. 1.32),
with Government financing representing 84 percent of total expenditures at the
end of the project. This share would be only 53 percent if external technical
assistance was to be maintained. The overall impact of the project on
Government cash flow is given in Annex 8 Appendix 2.
B. Cooperative Development Component
6.05     The project is expected to significantly enhance the cooperative
movement. Given the early development stage of the Burundi cooperative
movement, the increased efficiency of MRDH's cooperative support services
would significantly advance existing cooperatives and farmers' groups, and
lead to the establishment of new cooperative units. With the establishment of
a National Federation of Cooperatives, the cooperative movement would obtain a
greater degree of independence from administrative influence. The enhanced
and expanded cooperative movement - together with the increased role played by
the private sector - would increase the volume of marketing transactions and
thus contribute to the monetization of the rural economy. By promoting the
development of saving and credit cooperatives, the capacity of the formal
financial sector in absorbing and intermediating the additional flow of money
would be increased. It is also expected that the development of rural credit
would indirectly induce a supply-driven growth of agriculture production. The
development of a network of sustainable rural organizations would reduce
Government subsidies to commercial activities and thus generate indirect
fiscal earnings. On a reduced scale, cooperatives would also be in'volved in
sinple food crop processing activities (grinding mills, flour blending) and
generate added value in the food crop sector.
C. Economic Analysis
6.07     The project direct impact on agricultural production would come from
promotion of fertilizer use on food crops in Kirimiro and Buyenzi areas where
this theme is already well adopted (30% of farmers in Kirimiro), and present
demand not satisfied, and form rice development in Buyenzi. Research on
fertilizer and plant protection, and the strengthening of the Extension
Department would have an indirect impact on the entire country. Through
promotion of fertilizer the project would address one of the key technical
constraint to foodcrop production increase, which is the decline of soil
fertility. In the Kirimiro area, use of chemical fertilizers on foodcrops is
highly popular among farmers as it produces a 50 percent increase in the
yields of beans.  Fertilizer use would increase yield from 840 kg/ha to 1,260
kg/ha for beans and from 800 kg/ha to 1,500 kg/ha for mai2e. It is expected
that in Kirimiro and Buyenzi area the percentage of farmer using 20kg per year
(30 % of the area cultivated under beans) would grow from the present 15 2 to
45X.  This is under the 60 % current adoption rate in Kirimiro initial project
area. In Buyenzi, it is expected that the area under rice cultivation would
increase from 2,500 ha to 3,500 ha. Current paddy yields of 2,300 kg/ha would
be maintained through improved seeds and fertilizer use. On a more general



- 45 -
scale it is expected that the development of plant protection through the
strenthening of a phytosanitary research would reduce crop losses by 10
percent by PY4. The strengthening of central extension services and the
launching of the fertilizer research program are expected to result in the
development and extension of fertilization packages which would be adopted by
15 X of farmers outside Kirimiro and Ngozi areas. The reorganized extension
services would also promote coffee production in Buyenzi and Kirimiro areas,
through technical packages and inputs to be provided by the CoffeelExport
crops Project under preparation.
6.08     An internal rate of return calculation has been made under these
assumptions. It shows a return of 19 percent on 70 percent of project costs.
This very conservative estimate does not take into account the impact of the
reorganization of extension services on coffee production and increase in food
crop production resulting for improved cultivation practices. The sensitivity
analysis shows that a 20 percent cost increase or a 15 percent reduction in
benefits would results in a IRR of about 10 percent. The switching value for
the economic price of fertilizers would be 114 Fbu (a 55 percent increase) for
an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent (Annex 7). Besides this
quantifiable impact, other significant benefits would derive from providing
better agricultural services with a lower and more sustainable level ot ,-blic
expenditure (para. 6.04), and from an accelerated development of private
sector initiatives and independent farmer as ociations.
D. Beneficiaries
6.09     There are about 430,000 farmers 'n the project area.  It is estimated
that the number of farmers using fertilizers on food crops would increase from
60,000 to 200,000 by PY5 with a corresponding improvement in their nutritional
balance. It is expected that the new emphasis on farmer's participation in
the extension system would improve the social relations between the farmers
and MOAL's services. Small marginal farms would benefit from the new
extension approach which would take into account area and farm-specific
situations.
6.10     Impact on women and rural youth.  Women would directly benefit from
the project through the following measuress (a) efforts would be made to
increase the number of women extension agents and women SMS; (a) EAs visits
would be made at a time that suits the convenience of women; (c) farm
implements which would reduce the drudgery of women farm labor would be
identified, developed and propagated; (d) special attention would be given to
women who have to assume farming responsibilities as husbands are working
outside the farm; and (e) women would have access to credit through the
COOPECs; (f) Rural youths would benefit from RDC employment promotion
activities through the pilot program on rural youth employment.



- 46 -
S. 'lgsks
6.11     The major risk for the institutional strengthening components of the
project would be the scarcity of qualified Burundian willing to fill high
level positions in DGPA, Provincial Services, ISABU, FACAGRO, and MRDH on a
permanent basis. To minimize this risk, the project would improve their
working conditions by providing vehicles, office equipment and professional
training. The project would also promote the appointment of local staff on
technical assistance positions (local specialists). When effective, this
would reduce technical assistance costs to about 20 percent of actual costs
for expatriate technical assistance.
6.12     Project success would depend on the political commitment towards the
agricultural sector. Sustainability of the reorganized agricultural services
would be dependent on the agricultural sector's share of the GOB's financial
resources. The new Government has demonstrated so far a high commitment to
the objectives of the project, but its financial resources will, in the end,
be dependent on fiscal revenue which in turn will depend on the evolution of
coffee prices in the world market.
6.13     Another unknown is the future demand for food crops.  Burundian
farmers have proven their capability to adjust their level of production to
meet consumption needs and expected marketing prospects. The growth of market
demnd for food crops will, however, depend on the development of urban
centers. This issue would be addressed by the second phase of the Urban
Project which has been recently approved. To minimize this risk, the project
would focus on high nutritional quality produce such as legumes and cereals
which are already seasonally in short supply.
6.14     The success of the privatization of input marketing will depend on
the willingness of the private sector to get involved In this new activity as
it would take time for them to be convinced of its profitability. This issue
would be addressed through the promotion services which would be provided by
the RDCs to private traders and cooperatives.
6.15     The analysis of both men and women farmer's practices and attitudes
would be a challenging innovation in the extension methodology. This would
imply a major change in the mentality of most extension staff who would have
to consider farmers more as partners than as subordinates to be supervised and
controlled. The project would address this issue through intensive on-the-job
training, study trips, training abroad, and support of consultants. This risk
would also be reduced by the new GOB's social policy.



- 47 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECONMENDATION
A. ARtreements Reached
7.01     The following agreements have been reached during negotiations:
(a)   Existing agriculture services staff in the seventeen communes
of Kirimiro extension zone would remain under their present
status (para. 3.20 and 4.41);
(b)   The Government will prepare a study on the salary and benefits
system of the agricultural MOAL's staff. The results of the
study would available for the GOB/IDA joint evaluation mission
scheduled for mid-1990 (para. 3.21);
(c)   The Government will submit a study on garage operations before
April 1991 (para. 3.16 b);
(d)   The transfer of road maintenance from Buyenui RDC to the
private sector would occur before December 1990 (para. 3.16 c);
(e)   Buyenzi RDC would implement the results of the study on the
management of the rice mills by December 1991. (para. 3.18);
(f)   Cost recovery procedures for livestock inputs (para. 4.25);
(g)  The following expert staff and consultants would be employed by
MOAL and maintained under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA;
(i)   a financial management expert with Kirimiro RDC (para.
4.29);
(ii)  a financial management expert with Buyenzi RDC (para.
4.29);
(iii) an agricultural economist with the Study and Program
Division of DGPA (para. 4.05);
(iv)  a financial management specialist and a monitoring and
evaluation specialist with the Monitoring/ Evaluation
and Management Accounting Assistance Department of DGPA
(para. 4.07);
(v)   an extension specialist with the Extension Department
(para. 4.12).
(vi)  a training specialist with the Extension Department
(para. 4.12);
(h)   a fertilizer expert would be employed by the Faculty of
Agronomy for the implementation of the National Fertilizer
Research Program (para. 5.13);



- 48 -
(i)   a phytopathologist expert would be employed by ISABU for the
implementation of the Phytopathology service program (para.
4.15) and selection, procurement, transportation, storage
application and disposal of pesticides will meet the provisions
of World Bank's guidelines (OPN 11.01) (para. 4.15);
(j)   long-tenm manpower pr. Jections and training programs would be
submitted to IDA for review no later than March 1990 (5.06);
(k)   the operating costs of the provincial agricultural services
would be included in the PEP and entirely supported by GOB
budget by January 1, 1995 (para. 5.17);
(1)   progress reports would be prepared by September 30 of each year
and MOAL's Planning Department would prepare the Project
Completion Report for submission to IDA within six months of
the Credit closing date (para. 5.20);
(m)   a joint Government/IDA mid-term review would be organized
during PY3 (para. 5.21).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02     The following would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   Submission to the Association of the terms of reference of a
study on the salary structure of agricultural service staff
(para. 3.21);
(b)   Creation of an Administrative and Financial Unit within MOAL
(para. 4.11);
(c)   Appointment of a Chief Accounting Officer for the
Administrative and Financial Unit (para. 4.11).
C. Conditions of First Tranche Release
7.03     Release of the first tranche of US$ 4.5 million equivalent of the
credit vould be contingent upon:
(a)   Submission to the Association of a satisfactory budget plan for
the Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs for the years 1989 and of the
draft budget for 1990; (para. 3.22).
(b)   Increase by Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs of the consumer price of
fertilizer they sell by not less than 25 percent over the
consumer price applied as of January 1989 (para. 3.11)g



- 49 -
(c)   Presentation to IDA of acceptable action plan for the
reorganization of the management by RDC of the Ngozi and
Kirundo rice mills (para. 3.18);
(d)   The establishment of a Fertilizer Policy Committee (para. 5.14)
with the attributions to design the national policy on
fertilizer research production and imports and to coordinate
the imports of fertilizers.
D. Conditions of Second Tranche Release
7.04     Release of the second tranche of US $ 4.9 million equivalent of the
credit would be contingent upon:
(a)   Formulation of national program on seed production and
marketing (para. 3.12);
(b)   Completing the transfer of administrative and financial
responsibility for all the extension staff working in at least
one province within Buyenzi RDC and one province within
Kirimiro RDC (para. 3.20).
(c)   Formulation of a national regulation on pesticide usage (para.
3.13);
(d)   Submission of the 1990-93 rolling program of Public
Expenditures for the agricultural sector to IDA (para. 5.15).
(e)   Implemention of the recommendations, agreed with the
Association, of the study on the salary and benefits policy for
agricultural service staff in relation to the extension staff
working in the five provinces within Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs
(3.21).
S. Conditions of Disbursement
7.05     (a)   The following would be conditions of disbursement for MOAL's
Central Services and RDCs' agricultural services components:
(i) recruitment of the two technical assistants for MOAL'
Extension Department and the appointment of the Chiefs of the
Extension Service and of the Training Service (para. 4.12);
(ii) signature of the first annual agreement between ISABU and
the MOAL's General Directorate for Extension, (para. 5.11) and
(iii) appointment of qualified staff for the following DGPA's
positions: one of the two sector planners, a monitoring and
evaluation officer and a management advisor (para. 5.05).
(b)   The signature of an agreement, acceptable to IDA, between ISABU
FACAGRO on one hand and ISABU, DGA and FACAGRO on the other



- 50 -
hand, for the Fertilizer Research Program and the Phytosanitary
Units components (para. 5.13).
(c)   The establishment of the Cooperative Promotion Committee to
carry on the new cooperative development policy and the
recruitment of the technical assistant for the MRDH's
Cooperative Department component (para. 4.35);
(d)   The signature of an agreement providing for the continuation of
assistance of CICN to the COOPEC Central Office for the COOPEC
component (para. 4.37).
7.06     Subject to the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 33.1 million to
the GoverCnent of Burundi.



- 51
BURUNDI                          Annex 1
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT           Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proiect Area
Density
Province              Commune Population 1/ Colline Area (km2)  Farms (pop/km2)
Kirimiro I Area
Gitega                      5       344530       131       1074   73200     321
Muramvya                    1         49827       28        142   10600     351
Karuzi                      1         44517       21        192    9500     232
Total                       7       438874       180       1408   93300     312
Kirimiro New Area
Gitega                      5       232160       124       914   49500      254
Muramvya                    6        231594      117        737   49300     314
Karuzi                      6        222122      108       1266   47200     175
17       685876      349       2917  146000      235
Kirimiro Proiect Area
Gitega                     10       576690       255      1988  122700      290
Muramvya                    7        281421      145        879   59900     320
Karuzi                      7       266639       129       1458   56700     183
Total Kirimiro Area        24      1124750       529      4325  239300      260
Buyenzi Project Area
Ngozi                       9       504000       295       1473   96946     342
Kayanza                     8       468000       189       851   65167      550
Total Buyenzi              17       972000       484      2324  162113      418
Total Project Area         41      2096750      1013      6649  401413      315
1/ Source RDCs estimation for 1988



- 52 -                              Annex 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Savinas and Credit Cooperatives
1.        Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC) are promoted through a
national project financed and Implemented by French Cooperation and the
Centre International du Credit Mutuel under an agreement with the Ministry
of Rural Development and Handicraft. Each COOPEC takes in savings from and
offers credits to its members. The minimum capital share per member is
7BU500 (about US$3). Primary COOPECs are supported and supervised by their
apex organization, the Central Office.
2.        Between March 1984 and October 1988, 56 primary COOPECs have
been established in 42 communes. Their more than 67,000 members (about 20Z
of total households) have collected some FBU 352 million (US$2.27 million)
- FBU37 million (US$0.24 million) as equity and FBU 315 million (US$2.03
million) as deposits. The average deposit is bout FBU 3,000 (US$20) for
farmer members and about FBU 20,000 (US$130) for civil servants. COOPECs
pay 3% interest on member deposits.
3.        COOPECs' credit activity started in 1986. An individual COOPEC
is permitted to lend up to 30Z of its total deposits and the COOPEC Central
Office up to 502 of total COOPECs' deposits. After 6 months of membership
and savings, each member may borrow up to 5 times the amount of his/her
deposits. The limit of total credit that would be extended to an
Individual member by a COOPEC Is FBU 50,000 (approximately US$300). The
Central Officer is permitted to make individual loans to maximum of FBU
500,000 (US$3,000).
4.        By October 1988, the COOPEC movement had granted loans of FBU
218 million (US$1.4 million) and had outstand4ng amounts of FBU 120 million
(US$0.8 million). Primary COOPECe had outstanding loans of FBU 60 million
from 3,350 members (average FBU 18,000 or US$116 per loan) and the Central
Office FBU60 million from 350 members (average 7B 170,000 or US$1,100).
Loan  duration is from short-term (1 month) to medium-term (maximum 36
months). Interest rates on loans vary from 11 to 142 depending upon the
type of loan.
5.        Of the outstanding COOPECs' loans 8.52 (FBU5.1 million or
US$33,000) and of the Central Offices loans 4.2% (FBU2.5 million or
US$16,000) were overdue. Of these overdue loans, more than 50% are overdue
for a period of less than 3 months. The COOPEC movement has programmed for
1989 special efforts to recover outstanding loans, and to deny permission
to primary COOPECs the authority to issue any new loan until the loan
overdues are brought below 32 of total outstanding loans. Similarly, any
member of a COOPEC which has a default rate of 3% or higher would not be
granted new loans from the Central Office.
6.        COOPECs are required to deposit excess funds with their Central
Office on which they are paid 3.52 interest. The Central Office deposits



- 53                            Annex 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
almost all of its funds with CAMOFI (Caisse Centrale de Mobililzation et de
Financement), a government-owned savings and tinancing institution serving
the public sector, and receives interest rates varying from 62 to 8X,
depending on the duration of the deposits.
7.        The COOPEC Central Office, based in Gitega, controls the
establishment and the management in the initial phase of operations of
primary COOPECs. It offers management assistance and advice, accounting,
training, regular inspection and annual audit services, and operates a
central liquidity facility. As primary COOPECs develop and become self-
financing, they become progressively more independent of the Central
Office. However, even COOPECs which are largely operationally and
financially independent have to adhere to the professional standards set by
the Central Office. In 1988, the operational budget of the Central Office
was FBU27 million (US$175,000) of which FBU 14 million (US$90,000) or more
than 501 was financed by self-generated funds, and the remainder by donor
and government grants. Primary COOPECs generally become fully self-
financing after a period of about 4 years.
8.        The development of the COOPEC movement has been impressive.  The
reasons for this success are thats
(a) COOPECs cater to the needs of zhe rural population not only
with their savings but also increasingly with their credit
activities, efficiently meeting priority needs;
(b) COOPEC Central Office assures the strict adherence of the
movement to basic professional standards; and
(c) Government and its Ministry of Rural Development and
Handicraft's Cooperative Department, play r& her a
facilitating and monitoring role without being directly
involved in the operations and control of the COOPECs or
the Central Office.
COOPECS
Basic Data
Year      No. of Members        Capital        Deposits     Loans Outstanding
FBu Millions   FBu millions
1986      23,500                  14               56              6
1987      45,000                  25              150             45
1988      67,000                  37             352             120



- 54 -                                               Annex 3
Appendix 1
_-
WIOLTUA SOtM S             DET CI
iegt C.W.ts b Too?
bnM low)
law CWs.                            _o_
M9Ve   1990/191  I"999  199211   M9UM                nu    fus s00)
A. Om  ams--m                                                                                              amas
Vi1116 373710        W) w7.267.?  10294223.9 1Ve7 .1 3040.0 U597.    U1.197.5    m233.5
rrIW6  A  AIenIMTIVE1T   21               l21.7.9    4.967   663.97  3.5613  6.47            3949".?      254.3
3ATWIE nDs)2 Woi                          "4302.0   67r030.  7e0.97.1  46.90   469.          MU4        2.27.3
Sdr-ToWl AK  0m        SE                   337.6  23".99         ^54 .8 1436547.1 179P3.4  1.3331.1    7,745.7
R. 3019  WtLatnM  115
t. nituzuu
9005I13, 01. #A 190                     t4.4l7.4   71594.1 4 -3s.5  490.1 34,567.1   27491-.   1.4.1
mISISR W                               17.1.M  1139069.4 4.96.9 4. *30.9 5430.3   n39 9.3   24541.
736131                                  13.4       1247.3 12M5U7.3  e83.3   30o3.0    560.0            364.6
AD9u1  KIWI                             12.W.9   12.Wf 37.   23W7.9  5s633.   5A3.        4.441.5    312.5
LIWSEIS                                  s.713.?                  -    s0n.                5433.7       36.3
ECW14N1 P91tCTI!S                        3029.7     .09.  12.123.?  93.2   609M.4    3 .6.7            234.4
t.h-ToWa 18319 RIC                       256.502.3  215.4)3.1 13N.33. 115.195. 109.95.6   323279.4   5.343.
2. MUIZI NC
9905112. NMIT. M  EVIL.                 3366.8   73,273.9 51*02.4 4 0.4  MUM54.4    2260.t 9           IV7.5
WMllI>eS  11                            13.4       12,3.5 12624.4  13.5.6 11.34.6    72s7M.6           469.5
TRAI31                                  1040.2   10.4.3  352  12039.7  3..                S0.32.       A27.3
6WlIVE 133E4                             7,7.3   7M6.3  7t67.           M.2       4.M23    31.. 5      203.
LIWEIU                                   4,3e0.7                        503.0   704.2    5503,0 s5.5
OWXROO  9981OTt10                       l3..9   35M1.7 40.1.3   3V76.5 )34346.7   1S4313.0   1.192.3
otaUI WMMZ  t                            163 .5  13955.7 12,63.6 119.7.t     9.9 029   6354.6   4.156.5
3. got TM  9904                           364.4.?   36.43. 36.436   1.72M     ? 12727.?   134764.1       39.4
*.  3M. K%R ~                             95,62.*4    3233.2  U3m* t23.z6    m3.36.    133.51ss6.3        34.4
.ub-otal  31s3 0104t.k *t 9am15             512.27.5  429.361.2  N390  261,41.5 23e aI.  1..14.4  l5.191.
C.  U
1. FIRTRr    2SN
ts5                                    3V395.3   4101.5 44.17V.  41.223.5 40*256.7   204.59.    1.3119.
FrnM                                    43.11.4   3.234.1 352431 3532U4.1 J54.1   204327.    1.7 19.2
s,hlotul FOIizII 3(105                    31s.5.    76*.294   r9.412.  76.513.3 75641.5   3IM.47.3  2NN3W
2. 917050ITT  13S13C311                   439.4   21..2 21*92.0 22064.3 23,60.9   14294.3                 921.
1. (ESE6  3tlUMIZ6TIP                     12.473.2   U473.2          -        -        -    24.95.3       141.0
%*-7oU: SESEN>                              141.961.3  110,612.1 201*324.4 96.597.6 104.20.4   S5669B.s   3.591.6
0. RatlW t
RIS CetWUTI  EP&ITCWI                     031713.7   73.057.8 54t7M3  37.754.7 20.982.3   263.216.8   1,730.4
(UX13                                                55-723.2 9V4.7.l 10966.1  .B831.6   260s39.2   1,679.9
1.rTtcW  C(PEIAtlWt  DEWLWWT                 3117.7  123750.9 149.. 108.7M.0  .7014.0   5369.61   3410.4
t.   t TO AtLCISIIOT
*WIC0LTUULl MIMt                          697,5004.  744e00.0                             1.442.500.0   9.300.0
*-to   l1        To 6asIET                  697.)00.0  744.00.0         -        -           1-441.500.0   9.33.0
ToW0 34111  eeTm                            1.77eM.2 1.6692.45.0 316421.3 632.294.1 573326.0 5.4203.0  35.23.7
oda Ca ti ow R                             79.331.1   629.4  )2'636.l 4121.6  44008.5   267435.6   142,95
Prie, Cwtsnewtn                             42,h266.3   74140.s 203,919.9 110.953.4 125.s.)   46.794.0   294"7.
Totel PIUCT COtST3                          291.574.7 1.906.324.2 MO.27.s 790,29.1 743,746.  62092.6   0.03B.3
---- ----- 23a22z2  aZZSZ   usasam   uSatz=*    R*saaS  sUSSin
tam                                         41u45.0   V354.3  35644.3 3.272.  34670.3   192,2M            176.1
forigIn ftgw                              1.533906.4 1.451.297.5 623,976.0 489S431.3 43.178.3  4MW.759.5  2926.1
Anil1. l2 98 2U:05



- 55 -                                       Annex 3
Appendix 2
ASRICtILTUAL SERVICES SECTOR PtOJECT
Sumri AcCots bY Year
(FlU '000)
Base Costs                              Foreign Exchanse
1M/1990   1990/1"9    1991/1992 192/1993 1993/194   Total           Z      boimt
::=:::=::Z ::Z=:;=:x :_=-z---  -:=,::_== _====:ZZ :====::==:: :_===  z=::=_::=:
I. TNVESTNENT COsTS
A. M NSTRUCTION AND VMOS                125,102.2   109,764.3  61036.3  479465.6  42s416.1   385.784.5  69.5  2684122.6
A. EQUIPMENT                             644064.8    269413.1  29,681.7  14.266.7  15.5S361  1489979.3   64.4   95,945.9
C. VVFNlES                              147,572*7   309424.3  15,765.6  75,885.3  42.518.4  312.166.3  100*0  312,166.3
D. TECHN4ICAL ASSISTANCE                248982.6  2550731.5 Mt526*7  75,534.3  55.287.5   858O62.6  109.0  858,062.6
E. TRAINING                              55.472.2   03.697.8  81,159.5  31,971.2  27.125.6  2804026.3  55.7  156,008.9
F. RESEARCH AND STUDIES                 172892.2  144,566.8 110,501.4  29,680.4  83t049.5   590,690.4  52.2  308.165.5
Total INWSTNENT COSTS                      814v086.8  650,597.8 5209271.1 324.803.5 265,950.2 2,575.709.3   77.6 1,99471.8
II. REW  T COSTS
A. INCRENENTAL EXPENSES
SA ARIES ADDITIONAL STAFF            92.482.5   95.011.9  97.552.4  99,266.9  99,642.9  483,976.6    0*0           0.0
VEHICLE MAINTENE                    125,842.1   134,227.3 140,235.7 140.711.1 1400711.1   6810727.2   64.4  4399047.0
OTHER OPERATIN6 EXPENSES             40,313.9   45,408.0  58.362.6  67,502.7  67.502.7   279.089.9  55.4  154,557.9
q b-Total IKNRENTAL ENSES              2589638.S  274.647.2 296.150.7 307.480.7 107,876.7 1,444,793.7   41.1   593,604*9
B. SUPPORT TO ADJUSTENT
---  -------
ASRICULTURAL INPUTS                 697v500.0   744000.0          -         -         - 1.41500.0  100.0 1,4416500.0
S.jb-Total SUPPORT TO ADASTMNT         697,500.0  744,000.0          -         -         - 1.441.500.0  100.0 1441500.0
Tof;.i RECURRENT COSTS                     9564138.5 140189647.2 296,150.7 307.480.7 307,876.7 29886.293.7  70.5 2035,104.9
Tot.11  SEIN   COSTS                      1#770.225.2 1t669,245.0 816t421.8 6324294.1 5734826.8 5.462,003.0   73.8 4.033576*.7
Physical Contirnencis                     79.381.1   629938.4  52,686.1  48.121.6  44,008.5   2874135.6  65.1   1864807.5
Price Contingencis                        42.268.3   749140.9 103,919.9 1109553.4 125,911.5  4569794.0   69.5  317,405.2
Total RJECT COSTS                         1.891.874.7 1,806,324.2 973,027.9 790,959.1 7439746.8 6M205.932.6  73.1 4.537,789.5
I--- 212- :=2==2 ===5:: :                =: ==== ::==:=::  ::=:: ======:=
Taxes                                     41,455.0   37,354*3  35644.3  33,172.9  344670.3  182v296.8    0*0            0.0
Foreigin Exchanie                      1.538.906.4 1.451.297.5 628.976.0 4859431.3 439178.3 4.537.789.5    0.0           0.0
-   5-------------
April 18. 1989 21:05



- 56                                       Annex  3
Appendix 3
Dt
;IQLTUtM  SERNICES SECTOR ROJECT
FinwKing Plan bx Pci.ct cowmts
(US, low)1
1NTERmTIoJmuss Soo 
OEWLIEJIt        FWI3        IEL61UhI               6lE3It  OF
ACIATION   ASSISTACE.EOF  ASSIStNU        COC          m1i            Totl                    Local
-- ----         (ExEl.  Dutiu I
Amt   I         ao,t  I    Emmt  2   kWt           I    A2 o t  I    AMst   3   For. Exeh. Taxes)   Taxes
A. NK  CElL SERVICES
PLANNIlS OEPARtiTU   ( WA                 4*942.t 81.4                     1--      -       -  129.0 18.6  6t071.1  15.2    3,769.8  2*168.5    132.8
FINUItALAND  AHDIIMISTRAtIU MIT             206.  74.7        -    -        -   -       -   -      69.8 25.3    276.6  0.7        97.0   181.2        8.4
NATIONAL EXUS1IT WUlt                     2,300.9 86.1        -    -       -   -        -   -    370.1 13.9  24*71.0  6.7    29146.0   424.0    101.0
%hb-TOtul MI CEITRA SEVINCES                 7449.8  82.6        ---                               1      156. 17.4  9.018.t 22.5   6*002.8 2773.6    242.2
q. mzulijL tsRIOLTIfM  SEINICES
I. 1RI81O RXK
FPUTIU * Mo. M  EVA                     1*940.6 90.0       -    -        -   -3-         -    21     0.0  2,156.8  5.4    1364.7   720.9          71.2
EXTENSIN SERVICES                      1t952.2 64.3        -    -        -   -       -   -  1*084.9 35.7  3,037.1  7.6    1,852.4  14010.0    174.6
'TAININ1                                 301.2 69.6        -    -        -   -       -   -    131.5 30.4    432.7  1.t        223.6   185.3       23.8
aGPTIPY  RESEARtN                        302.2 90.3        -    -        -   -       -   -      32.3  9.7    334.5  0.8        177.4   152.8       4.3
LMsTOC(                                   37.9  90.0       -    -        -   -         - -       4.2 10-0     42.1  0.1        27.1    10.9        4.2
fEWIROUt PROTECTION                      291.3  9.9        -    -        -   -       -          19.0 6.1    310.3  0.8        215.3    79.5       15.5
%*-totatil 113IlO R1C                     4.625.4  76.4       -    -        -   -       -   -  10488.2 23.6  69313.6  0.8    3,660.5 29139.4    293.7
2. amENZI RDC
PIWNUIIN * IT. AID ED .                 14990.2  90.7      -    -        -   -       -   -    204.1  9.3  2,184.3  5.5    19394.9   740.2         49.2
EXTESION SEIVICES                        385.1  65.9        -                -       -   -    199.6 34.2    555.0  1.5        421.4   117.8       45.8
X-4TRAWING                               345.8 8B.5        -    -       -   -       -   -       44.9 I.S    390.7  1.0       2.0-     t70.8     17.1
APTlM  RESEARCH                          195.0 89.0                      -   -       -   -      24.2 11.0    219.1  0.5       102.6   112.5        4.0
LItSIOCt                                  38.0 90.0        -    -        -   -       -   -       4.2 10.0     42.2  0.1        27.1    10.9       4.2
F7Wl_R   t PIOTECTIO                    1*468.2 93.9       -    -        -   -       -   -      95.8 6.1  1,S63.9  3.9    16085.2   400.6         78.2
9Total guyEIZI ex                         4*412.2 88.5        -    -       -   -       -   -    573.0 11.5  4*985.2  12.5    39233.9 I1S32.7    198.6
3. 1 R YOTM  FROI                           999.5  94.0       -              * _          -        63.7 6.0   t043.2  2.7        607.6   322.4      9.2
4. IWLf            lt KYE                   974.1 93.6        -    -       -   -                   66.1  6.4  1,040.2  2.6       672.0   315.4      52-0
Aj-Tetal RE6IOAL A0ICOLTW*L SERVICES        11v2t1.3 83.7        -    -       -   -       -   -  29190.9 16.3  13*402.2 33.5    8,454.8  4,349.9    597.5
C. RESEAR
1. FERTILtZER RESEARCH
ISMU                                     996.0  63.0       -    -       -   -       -   -    585.0 37.0  t581.0  3.9          805.0   695.8      80.2
fACAO4                                   363.5  26.8       -    - 16.7 60.2          -         177.4 13.1  16357.5  3.4    1.084.1   248.5       24.9
Chtutal FERTILIZER RSEARMO                1,359.5 46.3        -    -  861.7 27.8        -   -    762.4 25.9  24938.6  7.3    1*689.2   944.3    I05.1
?. NYTMANITARY I15PCTlOIS                   711.8 66.9        -                             -    351.5 33.1  1,063.3  2.7        516.2   499.3      47.8
T. REARIlI RESMTlZAI1t                      178.9 95.0        -         -       -      -   -        9.4  5.0    188.3  0.5       121.5    57.3       9.4
Cj-Total RESEARC                             2*250.1  53.7       -    -  816.7 19.5       -        19123.4 26.8  W*WNI 10.5    2426.9  1*501.0         U2.3
n. TtERATE KI~T
No CWERTIW IlPARTElt                      1*t55.3 00.3        -    _       -        -       -    406.1 19.7  2*061.5  5.1    11575.9   305.2        90.4
C                                              w1t256.3 60.8   446.3 2t.6  -   -  279.5 13.5       83.8 4.1  2*065.0  5.2    1*415.6   566.3        83.8
c-totu1 CWETIUE tEY          T               2911.6  70.5   446.3  10.0       -   -  279.5 6.8    489.9 11.9  44127.2  10.3    2991.5   961.6    174.1
F. clMT TO ADrJRSNENt
461tC0L11R3  IOUTS                        9*300.0 100.0       -    -                                          9.30.0 23.2    9*300.0          -        -
to.t.uI SURT tO  AJSTIEt                     9*300.0 100.0       -    -       -   -       -   -         -   -  9,300.0 23.2    9*300.0          -
'at-I li,tw.nt                                33*t22-8 82.7   446.3  1.1  816-7 2.0  279.5 0.7  5*3n.1 13.4  *0438.3 100.0   29*276.1  9596.1  1.176.t
S  1    2a--  S  =5    S; S-  -11--  *------
Apolto.0 1919 2t:05



- 57 -
BURUNDI                                  Annex 4
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT                 Appendix 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Civil Works. Vehicles and Equipment by Project Component a/
Office   Office    Pickup  Cars    Motorcycles    Computers
Rehab.   Construct (4 x 4)                   Bicycles
DGPA                            500 m2             8  (4)  12  (6)                     14 (7)
Financial Unit                                              2  (1)                      1
Extension Unit                                    12  (6)
Kirimiro HQ, M/E                                   4  (2)   6  (3)       3     12       2
Kirlmiro Extension                     3,300 m2   9  (3)                31     72
Buyenzi HQ, M/E                                    4  (2)   6  (3)       2      9      4
Buyenzi Extension, Training                        5  (2)                8
Fertilizer Research, ISABU                         3                    12
Fertiliser Research, FACAGRO                       1                     1
Phyto. Unit ISABU               300 m2             4  (2)               15
Cooperative Department                            10  (5)               30
COOPEC                                   300 m2   6                                    2
800 m2 3,600 m2  66 (26)  26 (13)    102       93     23
a/ Includes number (in parentheses) to be roneswed befor project completion



.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- 58 -
Annex 4
BURUNDI                   Appendix 2
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement Method                  Total
Project Element                 ICB     LCB     Other       N.A.       Cost (IDA)
------------ US$ million ---------------------
Construction                             1.2                           1.2
(1.1)                             (1.1)
Land protection works                                        1.9 la   1.9
(1.8)         (1.8)
Equipment                        .8       .3         .1 lb             1.2
(.8)     (.2)       (.1)                   (.1)
Vehicles                        2.4                  .1 Ic             2.5
(2.4)                (.1)                   (2.5)
Training                                            2.2 Id             2.2
(1.9)                   (1.9)
Research, Studies                                   5.0 Id             5.0
(4.5)                   (4.5)
Technical Assistance                                7.2 /d             7,
(5.9)                   (5.9)
Operating Costs                                              9.5       9.5
(5.0)         (5.0)
Quick Disbursingt Component
Inputs                         4.5                  4.8                9.3
(4.5)               (4.8)                   (9.3)
Total                           7.7      1.5       19.4     11.4      40.0 (33.1)
(7.7)    (1.3)    (17.3)    (6.8)   (33.1)
Notet figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA
/a force account
/b direct contracting
/c international or local shopping
Id in accordance to IDA's guidelines



-59-
Annex 4
Appendix 3
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance
(Manlmonth)
PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5  Total
Kirimiro RDC
Financial Management                     10      10      0      0      0      20
Promotion Activities                      5      5       5      0      0      15
Adaptive Research                         2       2      2
Audits                                    2       2      2      2      2      10
Buvenzi RDC
Financial Management                     10      10      0      0      0     20
Promotion Activities                      6      6       6      0      0      18
Adaptive Research                         1       1      1
Audit                                     2       2      2      2      2      10
DGPA
Agricultural Economist                   10      10     10      0      0      30
Financial Management Specialist          10     10      10      0      0     30
Consultants                               6      6       6      2      2     22
General Directorate for Extension
Training Specialist                      10      10      6      0      0     26
Extension Specialist                     10      10     10     10     10     50
Consultants                               4      2       4      2      2     14
Consultant Women in Development           2      2       2      2      2      10
FACAGRO
Soil Fertility Expert                    10     10      10     10     10     50
MRD Cooperative Department
Cooperative Management Expert            10      10     10      0      0     30
COOPECs
Credit Experts                            0      10     20     15      0     45
Total                                   110    118    106      45     30    400



- 60 -
Annex 4
Appendix 4
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Disbursement Table
Category                            Amount
(1000$)
1. Civil Works                               100 2 of foreign and 80 2 of
(a) MOAL and RDC Services            2,180   local expenditures
(b) ISABU, Facagro                      50
(c) COOPEC                             240
2. Eciuipment and Vehicles                   100 Z of foreign and 80 Z of
(a) MOAL and RDC Services            2,240   local expenditures
(b) ISABU, Facagro                     450
(c) MRD Cooperative Department         410
(d) COOPEC                             200
3. Consultant Services                       100 2 of total expenditures
(a) MOAL and RDC Services            5,060
(b) ISABU, Facagro                      50
(c) MRD Cooperative Department         455
4. Training, Research, Studies               100 S of foreign and 80 Z of
(a) MOAL and RDC Services            5,212   local expenditures
(b) ISABU, Facagro                     235
(e) MRD Cooperative Department         240
(d) COOPEC                             420
5. 22eratina Expenses                        90 Z in PY1; 802 in PY2; 60 Z
(a) MOAL and RDC Services            2,785   40 Z in PY4; and 20 X in PY5
(b) ISABU, Facagro                   1,225
(e) MRD Cooperative Department         410
(d) COOPEC                             250
(6) Goods                                  100 2 of total expenditures
(a) Fertilizers                      4,500
(b) Phytosanitary products           2,800
(c) Vet. products and agri. tools   2,000
(7) Unallocated                      1,711
Total                               33,123



- 61 -
Annex 4
Appendix 5
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
Investment    Quick disbursing     Total
component     component
IDA   Quarter           Quarterly  Cumulative Quarterly Cumulative Cumulative
Year                    Disburs.   Disburs.   Disburs.  Disburs.   Disburs.
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------_
$ '000   Z $ '000  X $ '000  Z$ '000    Z$ '000   %
PY90 December 31, 1989        0 0       0   0    465  5    465   5    465   1
June 30, 1990         953  4    953   4  1,395 15  1,860  20  2,813   8
PY91  December 31, 1990   1,668  7  2,621  11  1,860 20  3,720  40  6,341  19
June 30, 1991       1,906  8  4,526  19  1,860 20  5,580  60 10,106  31
PY92  December 31, 1991   2,382 10  6,909  29  1,860 20  7,440  80 14,349  43
June 30, 1992       2,621 11  9,529  40  1,860 20  9,300 100 18,829  57
PY93  December 31, 1992   3,097 13 12,626  53      0 0  9,300 100 21,926  66
June 30, 1993       2,382 10 15,008  63      0  0 9,300 100 24,308  73
PY94  December 31, 1993   2,382 10 17,391  73      0  0  9,300 100 26,691  81
June 30, 1994       2,144  9 19,535  82      0  0  9,300 100 28,835  87
PY95  December 31, 1994   1,906  8 21,441  90      0 0  9,300 100 30,741  93
June 30, 1995         715  3 22,155  93      0  0  9,300 100 31,455  95
PY96  December 31, 1995     953  4 23,108  97      0  0  9,300 100 32,408  98
June 30,1996          715  3 23,823 100      0  0 9,300 100 33,123 100



- 62 -
Annex 5
Appendix 1
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Imports of Aftricultural Inputs 11
1983           1984           1985          1986             Average
Qte (t)Million Qte (t)MillionQte (t)MillionQte (t)MillionMillion Million
FBu             Fnu           FBu            FBu   FBu    US$
Fertilizers   3937  156.90   6700 259.90   1990 109.30   8041 491.70  254.45  2.12
Pesticides     271  183.10    291 259.50      91      55    292 258.20  188.95  1.57
Tools          382  146.60    447 168.50    339 181.30    145 107.40  150.95  1.26
Total         4590  486.60   7438 687.90   2420 345.60   8478 857.30  594.35  4.95
Value 1000 U          4.06           5.73           2.88          7.14    4.95
Imports of Fertilizers 2!
Forecast 1989
Projects                      Casherops       Fooderops
(tons)          (tons)
OTB                             2350
D. Agronomie                                  1000
SRD Kirlairo                      21          2400
SRD Buyensi                      300           100
SRD Imbo                                       600
COGERBU                          283
CVHA                                           150
SRD Rumonge                       40
Bututsi                                         20
BTC                               35
Kinyina                           30
3059          4270
Unit price (Fbulkg                              80
Values (1000 FBU)                           341600
Gifts (30S)                                 102480
Net Imports (1000 FBU)                      '39120



- 63 -
BURUNDI                           Annex 5
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT             Appendix 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Salary Adiustment Kiriimiro
PY1     PY2     PY3     PY4       PY5
.03 a/
Adjusted salaries         99,463 102,447 105,521  108,686  111,947
Actual costs              87,390  90,012  92,712   95,493   98,358
Proposed structure
at civil service cost    67,935  69,973  72,072   74,234   76,461
Incremental cost          12,074  12,436  12,809   13,193   13,589
Salary Adjustment         19,455  20,039  20,640   21,259   21,897
at Average annual salary increase



- 64 -
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT                     Annex 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                      Appendix 3
Salary Adiustment Bu-ensi
PYl      PY2      PY3      PY4       PY5
.03 a/
With project Adjusted salaries  103,896  104,095  104,293  104,491  104,690
Without Project                  103,896  107,013  110,223  113,530  116,936
Target salaries                   93,016   95,806   98,680  101,641  104,690
Proposed structure
at civil service cost             63,662   65,572   67,539   69,565   71,652
Incremental costs                (10,880)  (8,288)  (5,613)  (2,851)        0
Salary Adjustment                 40,234   38,522   36,754   34,926   33,038
Net Adjustment                    29,353   30,234   31,141   32,075   33,038
a/ average annual salary increase



- 65 -
BURUNDI                      Annex 5
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT          Appendix 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT              Page 1
Operating Costs of Agricultural Services
Kirimiro                Buyenzi Total
Monthly   Annual           MonthlyAnnual  Annual
Nb   unit cost Cost (Th)   Nb   cost   Cost (Th)Cost (Th)
With prolect
Coordinator                3    59,313    2,135      2   51,870    1,245
Deputy/M and E             3    53,525    1,927      2   45,414    1,090
Communal Agronomist       24    34,483    9,931    17   35,040    7,148
Agricult. Assist. Off     45    21,569   11,647    35   27,038   11,356
Subject Matter Specia     14    42,100    7,073      6   39,190    2,822
Extension Agents         356      8,258   35,278   200   18,704   44,890
Forester                   6    34,483    2,483      3   46,870    1,687
Veterinarian               3    56,455    2,032      2   56,455    1,355
Vet Technician            24    34,483    9,931    17   35,040    7,148
Vet Assistant             72    11,000    9,504    34   19,481    7,948
Civil Engineer              1    53,525      642     1  49,645       596
Technician Civil Work      7    34,483    2,897    10   35,040    4,205
Assist. forester           8    28,556    2,741      2   28,556      685
Accountants                 3    34,483    1,241     2   35,040       841
Total Salaries                            99,463                  93,016  192,479
operating costs with proiect
Motorcycles               75      5,000    4,500    53    5,000    3,180
Bicycles                 481      1,250    7,215   271    1,250    4,065
operation motos           75    10,500    9,450    53   10,500    6,678
operation vehicles         7   100,000    8,400      5  100,000    6,000
Tocal Operating Costs                     29,565                  19,923   49,488
Total Costs With Project                 129,028                 112,939  241,967
Actual Cost RDC                         Kirimiro
Coordinator                1    59,313       712     2   51,870    1,245
Deputy/M and E              1   53,525       642     1   45,414      545
Communal Agronomist        7    34,483    2,897    17   35,040    7,148
Agricult. Assist. Off     34    21,569    8,800    37   27,038   12,005
Subject Matter Specia      0    34,483         0     0   35,040        0
Extension Agents         170      8,258   16,846   200   23,380   56,112
Forester                   0    34,483         0     3   46,870    1,687
Veterinarian               0    59,325         0     2   56,455    1,355
Vet Technician              1    34,483      414    29   33,901   11,798
Vet Assistant              0      8,258        0    37   19,481    8,650
Civil Engineer             0    53,525         0     1   49,645      596
Technician Civil Work      0    34,483         0     6   28,760    2,071
Assist. forester           6    28,556    2,056      2   28,556      685
Accountants
Total Salaries                            32,367                 103,896  136,263



- 66 -
BURUNDI                      Annex 5
Actual RDC Operating Costs
Motorcycles                 8     5,000      480    26    5,000    1,560
Bicycles                  210     1,250    3,150   239    1,250    3,585
operation motos             8    10,500    1,008    26   10,500    3,276
operation vehicles          1   100,000    1,200      2  100,000    2,400
Total Actual RDC Operating Costs           5,838                   10,821   16,659
Total Cost Actual RDC                     38,205                  114,717  152,922
Actual Cost Expansion Kir$miro Zone    Kirimiro
Coordinator                 3    42,993    1,548
Deputy/M and E              0    38,525        0
Communal Agronomist        17    25,889    5,281
Agricult. Assist. Off      38    18,709    8,531
Subject Matter Specia       0         0        0
Extension Agents          236     5,411   15,324
Forester                    6    25,889    1,864
Veterinarian                2    42,993    1,032
Vet Technician             18    25,889    5,592
Vet Assistant              89    11,000   11,748
Civil Engineer              0    49,654        0
Technician Civil Work      11    25,889    3,417
Assist. forester            2    28,556      685
Accountants
Total Salaries                            55,023                        0   55,023
Act. Oper. Cost Expan. Kiri. Zone              0                        0         0
Total Actual Costs Exp. Kiri. Zone        55,023                        0   55,023
Total Cost Without Project                93,228                  114,717  207,945
Total Salaries Without Project            87,390                  103,896
Incremental Salary costs                  12,074                  (10,880)   1,193
Incremental Operating Costs               23,727                    9,102   32,829
Total Incremental Costs                   35,801                   (1,778)  34,022



- 67 -
BURUNDI                       Annex 5
Kirimiro                 Buyenzl
Proposed Organization at Civil Service Costs
Coordinator                 3    42,993    1,548      2   37,598       902
Deputy/M and E              3    38,525    1,387      2   32,687       784
Communal Agronomist        24    25,889    7,456    17   26,307    5,367
Agricult. Assist. Off      45    18,709   10,103    35   23,453    9,850
Subject Matter Specia      14    25,889    4,349      6   24,099    1,735
Extension Agents          356     5,411   23,116   200   12,256   29,414
Forester                    6    25,889    1,864      3   35,189    1,267
Veterinarian                3    42,993    1,548      2   42,993    1,032
Vet Technician             24    25,889    7,456    17   26,307    5,367
Vet Assistant              72     5,411    4,675    34    9,583    3,910
Civil Engineer              1    38,525       462     1   35,732       429
Technician Civil Work       7    25,889    2,175    10   26,307    3,157
Assist. forester            8    18,709    1,796      2   18,709       449
Accountants
Sal. prop. organiz. at civ. serv. costs  67,935                     63,662
Salary Adjustement a/                      19,455                   40,234
Salary Incremental Costs b/                12,074                  (10,880)
a/ Actual costs - proposed organization at civil service costs
b/ with project salaries costs - actual costs



- 68 -
Annex 6
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Schedule
I. Input policy
A. Fertilizer Program            - Establishment of the              - September 1989
Fertilizer Policy Committee
- Recruitment of the agro-pedologist- September 1989
expert in FACAGRO
- Agreement between ISABU           - September 1989
FACAGRO and DGE
- Completion of the                 - December 1993
Fertilizer research program
B. Pest managtement program      - Appointment of the IPM            - September 1989
specialist
- Design of a national pesticide    - June 1990
regulatory scheme
C. Sed program                   - Design of the national            - January 1990
seed program
D. Input Marketina system        - Application of a unified          - September 1989
fiscal policy
- Transfer of retail marketing      - December 1993
to the private sector and coop.
E. Buyenzi RDC's manatement audit- Selection of consultant           - June 1989
- Consultant0s mission              - October 1989
- Consultant's report               - October 1989
- IDA review                        - December 1989
- Implementation of recommendations - January 1990
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--
II. Reortani:ation of Buyenzi and Kirimiro RDCs
...................................................................................
F. Reorganization of road        - Agreement on TOR                  - October 1989
maintenance activities        - Study                             - March 1990
- Implementation of study's         - Docember 1990
recommendations
G. Reorganization of             - Consultant's report               - December 1989
garage operation              - Bank's review                     - April 1991
III. Staff salary reform
I. Salary Study                  - Presentation of TOR of the study  - Effectiveness
- Selection of consultant           - April 1989
- Consultant's report               - December 1989
- IDA review                        - April 1990



- 69 -
Annex 6
page 2
- Starting implementation           - July 1990
of recommendations
IV. Strengthening of Central Services
J. Strengthening of DGPA         - Appointment of the program officer- September 1989
in charge of the PEP
- Appointment of a sectoral         - September 1989
planner
- Appointment of a management       - September 1989
advisor
- Recruitment of the sectoral       - November 1989
planning expert
- Recruitment of the M/E expert     - November 1989
- Recruitment of the financial      - November 1989
management expert
............................. ... .......... .. 0... .......................
K. Creation of HOML' Financial   - Creation of the Unit              - September 1989
and Administrative Unit        - Appointment of chief accountant   - September 1989
---*.---------------------------------------@@*-@v@@@----@**.-*-.*-------.@*--*@---------.
V. Reortanization of Anricultural Services
M. Strengthenint of MOAL's       - Appointment of Chief of           - September 1989
Extension General Directorate  Training Service
- Appointment of Chief of
Extension Service                 - September 1989
- Recruitment of the training       - September 1989
- Recruitment of the extension      - September 1989
expert
....................0...................................... ............. ...........
N. Reorganization of RDC's       - Submission of a training program  - March 1990
Extension Services            - Agreement between GDE and ISABU   - September 1989
- Farming system assessments        - January 1990
- Trassfer of technical             - December 1992
responsibility of extension
staff to GDE
...................................................
0. Reorganization of             - Agreement on TOR                  - September 1989
Azricultural Research         - Recruitment of consultant         - January 1990
- Completion of the study           - December 1990
VI. Strenathenint of the Cooperative Movement
P. Strengthenint MRDH's          - Creaticn of a promotion committee - Setember 1989
Cooperative Department
----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__--
R. COOPEC extension              - Recruitment of the credit experts - September 1990
- Construction of regional branches - November 1990



A(RICLLTtAL SERVICES SB:oR PROJ8cT
ECONOIC ANALYSIS
1        2        3         4        a         6        7         8         9       10        11       12       13        14       Is seae*e#*e      25
amef it. from fertI I see  a,n bean. in Kiri-lr and euyonzi
0,02 b%
A of frtam c\                  429,900  438,498  447,268  4518,213  465,38  485,338  485,338  485,338  465,338  488,338  488,338  465.338  485,338  4dO.338  488,38 *me*"*e 465,838
Adoption rate                       10       15        20       30       30        30        S0       30        30       30        30       30       30        30       30 oeoa.a.a       30
t6 of farm, adapting d\         42 990   aS 776   89,484   1i36 84   139 601  1S9 601  139 601  139 601  139 601  1S9 601  139 601  139 e01  19 601  159 t01  1n9 601 amaa.m. 1N9601
Arom (ha) \'                      fl6    B162    14O9   2Wal1    2ia267    2S267    2s267    2S267    2S267    d2267    212467 2i267    2i2670    2ku27              2kG20 *  _aa      2ak67
Increaantal Yiel                  S00       400       420      420       420      420       420      420       420      420       420      420      420       420      420 ow*o*"*.      42D
Incremental Production           2,180    4385    6,262    9,80    9,772    9.772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,772    9,m  *.-.a.    9,77m
iri!e52                                 62       82        82       82        52       62        32       52        52       52        52       52        82       6.aea.            8
Teol             5: 111,068  2266,57  323,524  494,99l  604,891  304,891 6804,91  504,891  804,891   04,891  804,6891  804,91  804,891  504.891  804b.91- easme..  ID4,891
m\ 20kg of f.rttliz  rforfnyar  2 kg/ho        b\ groth rate of farm       cs Kiri-ire total Nb of farm
d\ Incremental
COost                 price fbu/kg
Fortilizar (t)          74         860    1,815    1,789    2,737    2.7T2      2 2       22    2,7             92    2,792    2,792    2,792    2,72       2 M       2,7e2 m"..    2,792
Price a                  0          74       74        74       74        74       74        74       74        74       74        74       74        74       74        74  _.....       74
Vo1lv (1800 P)           0      6S,195   96,689   131,497  201,190  206,214  205.214  206,214  206,214  286,214  206,214  206,214  208,214  206,214  205.214  20t,214 e..a.e  208.214
Opratirngcaoital               96 689   54,808   89,698    4,024         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0    o0 OmO*m...                     0
=atmao   b          ~          1159.816  135,860   81,745   84,013   70,116   86.220   80,769   40,841   40,841   so,769   40,641   40,641   60,769   40,641   40,841 maome...    40,641
Eiatnmin fooderp      0.0       7968O   87,780   26,873   27,007   35,066   20,110   26,388   20,271   20,271   25,389   20,271   20 271   2 a89s   20,27    202   me 271        2o 20,1
locremnta       c                2,347    3,81    4,884    7,473    7              2      7,2      7622    7,62       762       7,622    7,622    7,6i2    7,622    7,622 7"*ae22    7?.7 
Toeel  _cou                    241,8819  202,6t8  261,947  2969,6    247,894  240,948  238,22   288,107  2m1, 07  238,221   28.107  268,107  238,221  23,107  268,107 mmasas.s  286,107
Nat flew                      (180182)  23,689   91,877  265,298  266,997  288,948  266.6    271,786  m2,7865  286,671  21,76   21,785  266i,671  2m,785   271,785 ma...  271,785
-841
e\ Frrtap   ecoomic PicU 
b\ Incremental projec c     kirlir. ,Skyenzi  *ttenion-   cA .day/far,  1 40 fbis/day, shadw pric. 0.78
Sanf to frm fortsIis zr resrch
Farm otside *prect area        84,345  865,432  576,741  586,275  888,278  688,2715  8,275  868,27;5  888278 5688,275  688,276  688,276  58 e251688,2751  M.275 .me...o. 888,275
Adoption rate   B0                   1        2         4        8        12        15       i         i5 15              is 15    13        1s 15              iSma oama         15
Nb o frm adap ing                   0      ,6864   11 es    25 381   47 062   70 9a3   88,241   80,241   88 241   88,241   88 241   68 241   e8 241   88 241   88,241   ee             8241
Are   w                              0      942       922      92        44      11768    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707)   1470        107    14707    1407 m.....    14707
LK  Nield                 SW~30    300       400      400       400      400       400      400       400       400      400       400      400      400       400 0.eae..e      400
Incremental Production              0       2083      769    1,389    3,137    4,706    5,883    38,88       5,86      8,888    6,m8    5s,88    8,863    5,888    68.83 maeo...        A 6,805
Pric     l2                                  62        52      52        S2        82        52      652        52       62        52      52          2      562       562 =.mae .        52
Totl anf- Its                       0 14,807   89.781   81,081   162,108  248,154  308,942  80t,942  808,942  o08,942t  806,942  080,942  808,942   806t,942  805,34* o _aees 806,942
a% 20 t                                                                                                                                                                                             0*is    wsDte
2k of ferti I Iaar/farm/yer 120 kg/ha
sl% lacremmatal
Cam                   priesc fbukg
Fart.l Iar C(t)         74          0       113       261      471       941    1,412    1,755    1,7u        1,   765 1        ,7      1766     1,768     1,766      .1r5a.1 t    1,765
PriceaI                  0          7        74        74       74        74       74        74       74        74        74       74       74        74       74        7deeaaeeaaeg      74
ValIug (108 Pb.)         0           0    8,312   18,986   54,891   69,181  108,77`2  129,718  129,718  129,715  129,715  129,715  129,715   129,718  129,715  129,716 ea.eamee  129,715
Operating capital                ,52    8e,644   17,654   34,691   84,891   26,945            0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0 aea"mee, (12,715)
Incremental work c\                 0       809       m      1,286    2,570    3,S6       4,81     4a,818    4,l81    4,813    4,118    4,81*,e  4,616    4,815    4,618 *e _mae   4,818
Totl coat                        8,132    17,265   35,220   70,466   106,441  a138,869  134,688  134,866   154,6   U134,838  U14,88  134,11  154,8u8    14,356  154,888i _eaaaeea    4,818
a\   rpt sa economic prc     _        b\ In-cremental project coat Kirimiro eg. *ervlce_,
Ric. production In W bnal
Area (ha) a\                       2     00 4     00           800    1,000    1,00       1,000       000    1,000       1,0      1e I,0  108 0    i   1,000 10       1000 .1eeeee       1,000
Yield                             2MG       460       690      920    1,130      1,8i8    1,610    1,640    2,070    2,0o0   2,800    2,8o0   2,800    2,800    2300 aoae               2 300
Prod*tion                           40      134       414      738    1180    1,380    1,610    1.840    2,070    2,800    2,800    2,30o    2,300    2,300    2,300 es"es"    2,300
Price b\                            so       so        80       30        80       so        30       80        80        80       30       30        30        30       30...e3a           0
Vala                             I,S60    5,s20   12,420   22,080   s4,80O   41,400   48,800   S5,200   62,100   69,000   6U,000    69,000   69,030   6s,000              69,000 - -   69,000
a\ lareantal               b\ Zaport parity prie
Coat.
Eateniain lbyeni m\              8,66     5,005    8,975    81,82      5, 368     .  5,368 6868    6,368    6,868    6,868    6,38        6,8      6868    5,30 530 5368    53886 maaeaea  53886
Inveatme.                       51,1139   81,139   31n,19    811,13         39 51,159
Labor b\                         1,829     05,06    4,508    6,115    7,844    7 ,44    7 ,44    7 644    7 644    7 ,44    7 644    7.644    7 644    7 S44    7.644 *....e             7 644     D
Ferti lier c\                   1,470    2,940    4,410    8,880    7,350    7,880    7,380    7,380    7,380    7,360    7,380    7,360    7,860    735s0    7.350 ma m                7,360
Total Cowt                      42,317   42,960   A. itO   S,662   51,501   20,362   20,362   20,562   20,862   20,362   20,362   20,362   20,382   20,362   20,862 "N.***   20,362  _
HNt flIo                       (41,437) (37,440)  (83,690)  (29,S82)  (17,001)  21,038   27,988   34,8ss   41,738   40,638   48,8t8   48,6381   48,638   40,688   48,mt ..e.ee.   4e,6s8
M*           15i 
a\ 806 of Ineramntal .xten-ion cost. in Buyanxi
bi 70 mn day/ha S 140 Fbu/day a.78     cs 1OkgA/hs
-       --_-_--_-_-__________ -_ -----------_-____- _------------ -- - - .____----__ _-----        -------    __ -- ___    __________________________-. -- ____________________ _   _



Concolidated economic mnelyei
1       2         a        4        6        B         7        a        9       10        11      12        13       14       la _...,...      25
Costs
Project Coat. I/            1,194,874 1,02,824  973,028  70 959  743,747  74, 747  214.694  219.7e   219,798  214.664  219.796  219.78  214,684  219.798  219.79e *e***s*"  219.798
Price contlenaci               424268   74,141  108,920  105584  125,912  126s437
Taus.                          41,485   87.354   3S8,44   83.173  2S4670   34,956
0PrA                          249.716  204,970  219S799  10S8,75  180 S t ,857   68.67 657   66,8S7   66.857   66,657   66O,657   66,657   66,857?  66,57   66,817 e1eS eOel, 66,657
Pilot pue9rels                 62,277   69 ,40   48,8 9    26,426  27,678
project net cmoet             76,658  676,409  565,269  518,076  894,635  518,497  147,827  152,941  162,941  147,6217  152,941  152,941  147.527  152,941  152.941 e*e-ee.  152,941
Cost. outside project area      8,3,12   17,265   35,220   70,466  106,841  18:3,59  184,115838  184,6853  1814,5183  154,533   1314,553  134,6331  184,335  184,63   18455  eeeeeaeee   4,683
PertilIizers 2/               161,14  134 437  206,600  211,094  212,564  212.864  212,564  212.364 M84 212,564      212.564 2,664  212,564  212,564  212.664  212.564 *eee"e*e  2122,86
Pesticides                     26,000   45,820   90,640  113,890  113,800  118,300  118,800  118,800  118,500  118,300  118,800  1138,300  113,300  115,300  115,800 eoeeeeeee  118,800
Addition.1 labor 8/             8,676    6649    9471   18,568   la 266   18,266   18,266   15,266   18,266   18,266   18,266   15,2166   15 266   15,266   15,266 eses**e"  18,266
Total Coat.                   974,200  6e0,079  906,200  92524  642,107  99o0190  623 490  626,604  626 ,04  62S,490   26,4  62,604  62S.490  62s6604  626.604 .__e.e  496,a9
enefit.
Benet. fore fortis IIr        111,056  22 6S,7  32 e824  494 991  504 ,69   504,691  504,    8     91 504,691  80691  804   804,691  504 891  804,691   04, Sl  504691 es , ee     04,691
Benefit. out.ide project area      0   14,607   39,731   61.061  162 108  243,134  805, 42   SO.94   808,42               808,942   806,942   508,942  8o3,942   303.942   3 a3Oe e S 4  303,942
BneOit. from rice cultivetio    1,360    5,520   12,420   226O,6    34,500   41,400   46.300   55,20    62,100   69,00    69.000   69,000   69,000   69,000   6s,000 eosesesse   69,000
Benefit. free poeticide.
Total loaaem free pests   8,800,000 3,399.060 3,899,000 38,59,00  8,399,000 8399,.000 ,399".000 8,899.000 8,899.000 8,399,000 6,399.000 8,899,000 5,599,000 8,399.000) 3,899.000 esea,e.e*3,899.00*
S lom reduction                   2         4        a8      10        10       10       10       10       1         10       10       10       10       10 S      0 soa*seeeoe    10
LA** Reduction (100 F          6S.000 1o5,60  27 1920  889,900  s9,90  39 ,900  339 9oo  389 900  w39,900  889 900  8S399 0o  s839,    839,90   59 ,900  539 ,90 0 e.sse 839,900
Total eneit.                  176,438  362,644  647,595  98a.028 1.041,594 1.129, 45 1.197,054 1,208,984 1,210,884 1.217,734 1.217.784 1,217,784 1,217,784 1,217,734 1,217,784 00aeeel,217,784
COa floe                     (95,7683) (497,435) (258,606)  14.499  199.267  18.149  57,6544  873,8S0  662,2S0  894,24,4 e89,180  589,160  564,244  889,15   6e9,180saesse     718,644
1\ Total cota of inweetment comonent net of t.x" end price contingencies
witsut DOA  nd pilot
2AfPrtilizer on  _e  end rice
8~Lebts for fertilizer
4t 103  reduction in lee                                                                                                                                                             1
AG1.CIALTURAL SERVICES S    PROJEI
El3@II ANALYSIS
1        2        a        4        a        6         7        6        9       10        11       12       13       14       Is  _             25
Sensitivity Analysis
Benei,ts                0    178,43s8  302644  647,595  986025 1,041 ,34 1 129,348 1,197,084 1,20.934 1,210,884 1,217,784  ,217,74 1,217.734 1,217,734 1,217,784 1,217,74 oesmeee  217.734
Coat.                  20  1 1690040 1,06,095 1 .07.440 1.106,229 1,010,628 1,166,258  748,168  7       7425 5  748,188  75432   75,15  748,168  734,325  784,82  ee.eeeee 54 G,66
Csalfloa                     (990,605) (67.451) (439,848) (170,206)  80,666  (58,890) 448,646  449,609  486,89  469,5461  468,409  40,409  469,546  468, 40946  40,09 ee.eeeee  6190607
iS    10 S
Cenefit.               (15)   151,672  35,246  8580486  797,319  6,185u   989,948 1,017 479 1,025,844 1,02,209 1,085,074 1,085,074 1,088,074 1,085,074 1,05,074 1,055,074 aeeeee el,035,074 
coats                   0    974,200  880079  906,200  928,524  642,107  990,196  628.490  628,04  628,604  628490  628,64  625604  628490  628,0   626,60W4 eeeseeso   49568 an
CesIf lie            ~~~~~(626,a2) (584,682) (855,11745) (126,206)  48,078  (30,253) 895,969  894,740  400,60   411,3134  406,470  406,470  411,5864  406.470  406,470 eeeasee*e  53,184
113
OQ 
X



8U"e1
AO3OLLWKAL S5RVICES SECrOt PROQJWT
il3NO30C MLYSIS
I        2         a        4         i        6         7         8        9        10        i1       12        1S       14        Is ........       25
_ _ _ _ ~    ~ -     -- - - -     -  __ -- - - -     -  -- - - - - - - - -     __ -- - - - -- - - -     -  -- - - - -- - - -     - _ _  --     - _- -   ---- - - - - - -- - - - - ---  - _ _  -  -     _ _
Benefits from t rtillier  ue on boons in Kirimiro and  q*onal
t of mr,mc                     429,900 \438,48  447,268  456.218  465,338  465,838   465,338  465,838  465.33 4 465,368 4                45, 5,33 465.338 49S.M19  465,338  485.838 *- ....  465.8216
A  ffr doption grate             2            is 1     20        s0       30        s0        30       30        30       30        50       8   30  so          31       30                so.... 8
Arnc 0-  *\                       fib9 I^12         1490s    26811    2a267    ^i62s       26267    26267    2S2 26 27    2S2s7    27 2    29267    2i267    2626i7 2.e..                2i2ev
incres*nL&I\Y;old300                400      420       420      420       420      420       420       420      420       420       420      420       420      420 ccc.o....     420
Incremental Production           2 150    4,885    6,262   9e560    9,772    9,772    972    9.772    9,772    0,772              .772     9 ,772    972    9.772    9,772 _-_..,..    9,772
P.ice (Fbv)                        52       52        82        82       82        32       82        52        52       52        82       52        52        52       52 .6*c-cce       52
TrS"l S"lefits                 111,055  226,557  323,524  494,991  804,891  504,691  504,691  804,691  504,891  80,6891  54,891.  504,891  604.891  804,891  604,691 ccc..  504,i891
Dr 23kg ot fertil izr/foro/ycar 120kIgh.a       b\ grwth rate of form        e\ Kiremiro totel ib of form
d\ incr_ntcl
coet.                  price fbu/hg
Fertii zer (t)          74         S6      1,315    1,7l8     2,71    2,77 2     2,72    2,79       2.        2,7      2792    2.792    2,792    2,792    2,792    2.792 2,7aie          2.7e2
Price a.                 0         114       114      114       114      114       114       114      114       114      114       114       114      114       114      114 e*e.c....      114
volvo (1000 i)           55     97,9e3   149,838   203,520  811,845  181,062  318,062  31J.082  318,0632  818.82  316.062  31s,062   310.082  818,082  818,052  316,052    c.           316s,062
Operating Cap itl              149, 68   8s 952   10o 025    6,237         0         0        0         0         0        0         a        0         0        0         0 cccc0 
Extenion  b\                   1659,16   135-560   51,745   654,018   70,116    56220    60,769   40,541   40,841   50,769   40,541   40,541   50,769   40.541   40 ,41cec               40.541
Exetnsion foodcrop.    0.50     79,8      67,780TS    256 75   27,007   3:5,05   25,110   25.385   20,271   20.271   25,385   20,271   20,271   25,385   20,271   20,271 cea *eco  20,271
irermantal waor cli              2,847    8,591    4,8614    7,473    7,622    7,622    7.622    7,62         7.6      7.6       7,622     7,22     7,622     7.=      7,M                762
Total costs                    629,826  275,191  312,601   352,361   360,762   85s,814  351,088  845,974  345,974  351,08  84,974  545,974  351,086  s45,974  34s5974 ce.-.   345,974
Not flow                      (218.766)  (48,64)  (19,077)  142,431  144,1SO   U1,073   158,808   188,917   186,917  158,808   138.917  168,917   133,803  15,917  138.917 ase.e....  18,917
m r          S32 1
O\ Farugpte oconomic price
b\ Incrcectal project coate KirW.iro ,Wy"zy; ccte.,c,-   e\ .Sdy/form 1 140 fb.s/day, .odo price 0.78
Seefits fae fortWier research
Form outeide proJ ct Oro       554,845  866,432  676,741  s86,275  866,275   568.275  568,275  S566276  568,275  s8,275  568,275  868,275   5188275  568,275  588,275 e.e.c.... ses,275
Adoption rt.  (3)                    0         1        2         4        8        12        Ls       15        15        15       is        is 1s              is        15 15...e..       15
Nb of form adopting                  0    5.6e4   11 s35   25 581   47 062   70 598   88,241   88.241   es 241   38,241   38,241   38,241   88,241  866241   d8,241 ..*eeO.C*   68,241
Area (he Ls                          0       942     i922      6922     7e44    11766    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707    14707 ...cecc..    14707
Intcr_nt l\Yi-ld                   300      300       400       400      400       400      400       400       400      400       400       400      400       400      400 ccc..00        40
Increeent.l Produetion               0      283       769    1,36s9    3,17    4.706    5,685    5,863        5.8e3    5,683     5,683    5,863    65,86      5,883    s. *83       --   5,83
Price                               52        52       52        52       52        52       52        22        52       52        52        52       52        52       S2    *            62
Total Bnf; to                        0   14,607   89.731   81,081  162.103  243,154  30S,9 42  305,942  303,942  305,92  803,942  303,942  305,942  303,942   303.942 *ieee.e.e  303,942
a\ 20 kg of f.rti lixr/fcrc/yeer 120 kg/h.
d\ i"crmentel
Cost.                  price fbc/kg
Ferti izer (t)           74          0       113      231       471      941    1,412    1,765    1,785       1,765    1,765    1,785      1,7       1,768    1.765    1,6es e=oeees   1,765
Price O\                 0         114       114      114       114      114       114       114      114       114      114       114       114      114       114       114 ccc.-iies     114
Volvo (1000 Ftu)         6s          0   12,68    26,282   58,618   107,2S1  160,848  201,038  201,05t  201,058  201,058  201,058   201.068  201,056  201.056  201,058 e.e....  201.058
Operating cep;tel               12,83    13,39S9   27,333   6S,61U   58,616   40,212          0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0 e.ee.e.ee (201,058)
IncremntW  work c\                   0       NO       630    1,285    2,570    3,864    4,616    4,818    4,618    4,818    4,618    4,816    4,618    4.618    4,618 *..ccesii  4,819
Totl  ret                       12,868   26,591   54,245  106,56t  163,416  204,912  205,876  205,876  205,876  205,676  205,876   205,876  205,676  206.876  205.876 cse.soec    4,818
cl Foragat  _cionomic price            b\ Increrntcl project cocte Kir;-iro mg. cervices
Rice production in 8uyenti
ArP" (he) c\                       200       400      600       8O0    1, 00O    1 000     1 000        1,000     1,000    1,000    1 000    1 000    1,600   1,000    1,000 e*- c-       1 000
Yield                              230       460      690       920    1,180    1,380      1,610    1,640    2,070    2,800    2,300    2,300    2,300    2,S00    2,300  _ ecc.ec    2,3i00
Prodactlon                          46       184      414       736    1,150    1,360    1,610    1,840    2,070    2,300    2,300    2,300    2.800    2,300    2,3S0  ox.cce.ee    2,300
Price b\                            30       3S        30        80       so        so        30       30        30 3S              30        30        30       3o0       30 ceeccec-e      so
Volvo                            1,3I3      ,520   12,420   22,0E0   84,500   41,400   48,300   556,20   62.100   69,000   69,000   69,000   69,000   6g,000   69,000 * eee-  69,0
O\ Increen_tt lb, lwport parity price
Coost.tt
Ecteneson 6uyrenzi  c           8,660    6,S2 82    ,975    8,28    56,S8    8,368    6,S36        5,868    5,868    5  ,368    5 S,366   5,368     5,38    5,368      5,368 ...c-**.   5,3t8         X
Invcetments                     31,139   31,139   31,139   31,189    31,189
Labor b\                         1 529    3,058    4,886    6 113       7 644    7 644    7 644    7 S64      7 644    7 644    7 644      7 6S4     7 644    7 644    7,644 I" c......   7,644        .
F rt Il .nr c\                   2,279    4 ,57    6.836    9,114   11,9        11,393   11,393    11,39S   11,393   11,593   11,395   11,393   11,393    11,393   11,393 ceccecee    11,595
Total Coot.                     43,626   44,5"    48,536   54,896   55,544   24,405   24,405   24,405   24,40S   24,405   24,405   24,405   24,405   24,405   24,405 o.o..ii-i    24,405
Not flew                       (42.246)  (39,057) (36,116)  (32,816)  (21,044)  16,96    23,896   30.79,      7,896   44,596    44,6U    44,596     44,596    44,59    44,59U e*iieviee    44,596
D .          ISt13
c\ 30S of intrIerntnl  et"n"i  coot" in Buyengi
bX 70 r-n doy/ha 8 140 Fbu/day *.78    c\ 1OkOg/b.
_   _ _ _ -  _-- ,-_-- _- ___--- __- ____ ___---- _----- _--- _-_------- _---- __-- _-___------ _--- _----------- _-_-- _------- _-_-- _-_-------- _-- _--- _ _-- __------ ___-_---_--------- _-_- ____-_-___-__-_-_-- _- __- __-- _- ___-_- __- ___- __- __-- __-_-_-_-- ___-_-_-_-_-- _-_-_- ___- __-_-_-



Coneolida6d economic *nslysis
1        2        S        4        a         a        7        8        9        tO       11       12        13       14       los***.."         25
Coate
Project Cost. 1/            1,194,574 1.062,24  973,028  790959  748,747  748,747  214,684  219,790  219.79d  214,684  219,78  219.798  214,654  219n79   219,796   e.    219,7M
Price contingencis             42,266   74,141  108,920  110,558  125,912  1261487
Taes.                          41,488   W7.384   35,644   85,178   34.670   34,4186
D A                           249,716  204. 97O  219799  105,675  1805607   66a857   86e6,7   66,e67   e6,857   668857   866,57   60,657   66857   6665?7  86e.57 s**a"*.   68,657
Pilta prorms                   82,277   69,450   4s6,86   26,482   27,678
CrJet utd proect re.s778 U68  676,409  s68,269  o5U078  894,656  515 497  147,527  152 941  152 941  147 62  U12941  132.941  147,827  162,941  12. 941 .eeee  162,941
=ert)lIs.d 2/jw  *e            126688   26,891   84,245  108,516  168,416  204.912  208,876  205,676  205,876  205,876  205.67   206.876  205.676  2056876  2058,78 e...    4.818
For;t Id.2P oS    2/  *       rZ250.099  206.877  181,660  8271'016  829 474  829,474  829,474  829 474  829.474  629 47  ,474  329,474  829474  829,474  829,474 se.s?.s 829,474
Pestcide.11                    20,000   46,820   90,640  123,800  113,100  118,800  118,800  113,800  113,800  118,80   113,80   115,800  118.80  113,0 18.300         see......113,800
Additional labor 8               867     649    9 471   13, 8 6        26    1s5 no    5266 12   s 266   l3 266   15 266   1566   1i5,26   15,25    15 266   1526  *se**e   is 266
Tote I Coat                  1,07o517  968,845 1,068st06 1,07,675 1,016,091 1.17.449  611 , 743  816:657  8616657  611,748  816,85   916,657  811,748  516,687  816s657  _se... 615.79
Benei to for ferti I itr ,    111,05   225 687  SS224  494. 991   804,891504,891  804,891  804891  S04,691  504691 8l S04 ,89    504 891  504,89    8. SW  *1 504,9 es *-          80,691
enefit. outsid project ra           0   14,607   89e ,76    8S 051  162t108  248,54  80S,942  808 942  803 942  803S942  8,942  808,942  s8,3942  a0os942  8038942 _s        ". 308,942
Benfits from pies cutllt;tio    1,880    5,820   12,420   22 000    4 ,600   41,400   48.80    88S200   62,100  6e.000   69,000   69,00    69,000   69.000   69.000 CeO O69,000
Benefit. from pesticides
Total IlIOs    from pet.   8,800,000 8.399,000 8.899,00 3,890000 8,899,000 8,899,000 8,899,000 8,8990  8,8990      000 3,89,000 3S89,00  8899000 S,s99.000 3sOSCOOO S,39OOO *r.ee003.8900o
S lomreduction                     2        4        8        10       10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10       10        IOsesse.ee       10
Looe.. Reduction (10O0 F       66,000  185,960  271,920  88,0   889,30900  889.900  839,900  839,900Sa 89,90   889,900   89,900  889.900  889,900  839.900  88990 O ee....   89,90
Totel Be      i               178.488  882,644  647595  988,0e8 1,041,394 1,129348 1.197,034 1,208,984 1,210,884 1,217,8  1,217,784 1,217,784 1.217,734 1?217,784 1.217,734 .eeeeeei.217,734
CO" flw                       (88C,079) 580,701) (90n710) (239,668)  25,S8   (49,104) 885,291  388,077  898.977  405,991  400,8s7  400,877  408.991  4c0077  400.877 eseees_ 601.954
-.    10 1
1\ Total costs of invseteet coepomet net of taes end price contingncim
eitheut OWA end pilot proareu
2\Ferti Iizr on been. end rico
a\ Labor for fertilizer
4\ 103  reduction in loe
AWCLWA SI   S1   O PRSIJ=:
S=M41c ANLYSIS
1        2        a        4 *                6        7        a         9       to       it        12       13       14        15.e *  s        25
Seltl)it.r Analrei;
Benfits                  0    178,438  382.644  647.852  988,025 1.041394 1.12.345 1.197.0S4 1,20S,ss4 1.210 684 1,217,784 1,217,784 1,217,734 1,217 784 1,217 734 1.217.4 *7 ses  217,7S4
Ca                      20  1 251 020 1,186,014 1,245.966 1,298,210 1,219,809 1,414,139  974,092  980.228  9O60226  974 092  980020   92, 228  974O092  960228  980,228 eseo2Zd T7  959
CeAhfle                    (1,102,862) (778,870) (9.371) (855,188) (177,916) (28794) 222,942  228,706  230,605  243,642  2S7505  237,06E  248 642  287, 85  25?7,80 os.e.ee   478,774
032
Benefit.               (15)   151,672  825,248  660,48   79 ,819  885,168  989s943 1,017 479 1,02S 344 1,029,206 1,085,074 1,088,074 1,085,074 1.085,074 1,0 8,074 1,088,074 $0000e.036.074  W
Cost.                    0  1,067,817  968,54S 1,08 305 1,7, 67s 1 015,091 1 178449  811,748  81X6,57  816857a811,748  816,5   615,e85  e611748  816,857  616, 887 .esSse  61, 799
Ceehf los                     (915,648) (688,098) (487,649) (0 a3566) (1U8906) (218,806) 206,788  206 460  212,851  228,880  218,216  218.216  22S3,80  218 216  218.216 _.e      419,27
fR t~s
x



- 74 -
BURUNDI                        Annex 8
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR PROJECT        Appendix 1
Project Impact on Public Expenditure
Agricultural Services
1989     1990       1991     1992      1993     1994
Public Expenditures with existing organization (Ngozi III and Kirimiro Prolects)
Buyenzi RDC
Salaries +Operating Costs           136,405   131,144  132,790  141,169  133,791  133,791
Technical Assistance 1/              79,418    82,908   86,552   90,356   94,327   94,327
RDC Headquaters                      17,749    18,814   19,942   21,139   22,407   22,407
Total                              233,571   232,866  239,285  252,664  250,525  250,525
Kirimiro RDC
Salaries + Operating Costs         262,392   236,326  1l:,494  163,021  182,199  182,199
Technical Assistance 21              79,418    82,908   86,552   90,356   94,327   94,327
RDC Headquaters                      21,995    23,315   24,714   26,196   27,768   27,768
Total                              363,804   342,549  268,760  279,573  304,295  304,295
Input Subsidies                     58,506    61,139   63,890   66,765   69,769   72,909
Deficit commercial activities        24,000    24,960   25,958   26,997   28,077   29,200
Total Before Reorganization        679,881   661,513  597,893  625,998  652,666  656,929
of which TA                        158,835   165,816  173,104  180,712  188,654  188,654
of which services                 438,540   409,598  334,941  351,525  366,166  366,166
of which commercial subsidies      82,506    86,099   89,848   93,762   97,846  102,109
Gvt Financing                      521,046   495,697  424,789  445,287  464,012  468,275
Public Expenditures under new structure
Kirimiro Services                   262,392   236,326  157,494  163,021  182,199  182,199
Kirimiro promotion                  80,959    70,752   74,128   66,762   52,663   19,657
Total Kirimiro                    343,351   307,078  231,622  229,783  234,862  201,856
Buyenzi Services                    136,405   131,343  133,187  141,764  134,585  134,585
Buyenzi Promotion                   82,435    69,357   72,664   65,222   51,020   18,044
Total Buyenzi                     218,840   200,700  205,851  206,986  185,605  152,629
Central Extension Unit              107,700    75.580   84.252   85.225   61.256   61.256
Total                              669,890   583,357  521,726  521,994  481,723  415,741
of which TA                        145,383   143,813   98,057   43,904   45,965   17,684
of which services                 524,507   439,544  423,669  478,090  435,758  398,057
of which commercial subsidies      66,005    51,659   17,970          0         0        0
Govt financing                    246,948   265,126  288,883  317,313  347,354  347,354
% of new costs                          37        45       55        61        72       84
X of old costs                          36        40        48       51       53        53
PE differential (with TA)            (9,991)  (78,156) (76,167)(104,005)(170,943)(241,188)
TA cost differential                (13,452)  (22,003) (75,047)(136,808)(142,689)(170,970)
Services cost differential          85,967    29,946   88,728  126,565   69,592   31,891
Commercial subsidies differential (16,501)  (34,440) (71,879) (93,762) (97,846)/102,109)
PE differential (without TA)        69,466    (4,494)  16,849   32,803  (28,254) (70,218)



- 75 -
Annex 8
Appendix 2
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SECTOR MROJET
GOYERIT CASH FLOM
(FlU INISANDS)
1      2       3       4       5       6   7-10   11-15
BI'RUSENTS
IDA                            1794163 1661093  7500   512017 416663        -       -       -
FA: EDF                              -   14546  30522  24102        -       -       -       -
RIaRIAN AID                      23099  24000  25180  26512  27791          -       -       -
UPPEC                                -    1661    7532  15157   18965       -       -       -
TOTAL DISeW      S             1817262 1701300  813332 577M7  46341         -       -       -
IORT RECORY
COllPECS                             -       -       -      -       -  25720  25720  25720
TOTAL COST RECOVERY                  -       -       -      -       -  25720  257    257
FISEALITy
IEfWITAL IKPORTED INVUTS           65    108    153    242    212    316    342    342
TAlES                            10346  17271  24458  3866   45079   50U14  54749  5474
TOTAL FICALITY                   10346  17271   24458  38666   45079  50614  54749  54749
PROiiT COSTS
CONSTRUCTION AHD OMS            14mo  136790   79665  64970  60652          -       -       -
ECOITPIT                         73353   31496  35816  18679  21269         -       -       -
UEHICLES                        168359  36065   19607  99367  58361         -       -       -
TErHNICAL ASSISTANCE            258229  27583  251589  89916  6898          -       -       -
TRAINING                         63642  100132  107328  41855  37016        -       -       -
RESEARCH AND STUDIES            198268  172894  138335 104309  113234       -       -       -
RENT COSTS                      28205  309364 345689  371864 384228 384228 384228 384228
Cr. REC. COSTS                       -       -       -       -      -  142418  142418  142418
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            1194375 1062324  973028 790959  743747 241809 241809  241809
BElT SERUICE
TV. (US$ 1000)                      43    127    195    215    238    248    248    1235
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE  (FlU 1000)    6716   19649  28674   33398  36874   38433  38433  191389
SVERPHIENT CASH FLOV
CA'34 FL-O                      626518  636598 -163912 -207904 -272123 -203909 -199774 -352729



-76-                         Annex 9
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROGRAM-BUDGETS
Ag. Serv.  Other
Project    Projects
MOAL                                                         (preparation)
A.   Foodcrop Extension and Adaptive Research            X
B.   Coffee Extension                                    X
C.   Swamp Protection and Development                    X
D.   Veterinary Services                                 X
E.   Erosion Control and Agroforestry                    X
F.   Training                                           X
G.   Promotion
H.   Coffee Planting and Regeneration                         (Coffee Project)
I.   Coffee Research                                          (Coffee Project)
J.   Construction of Coffee Washing Stations                  (Coffee Project)
K.   Afforestation                                            Forestry I
L.   Seed Production                                          (Research Project)
ISABU/FACAGRO
H.   National Pertiliser Research Program                X
N.   Phytosanitary Service                               X
Ministry of Public Works
0.  Rural Roads                                               (Road Project)
Ministry of Trnsportation
P.  Maintenance of Services Transportation
M.D.R.
Q.  Cooperative Promotion                                X
R.   COOPECS                                             X



Annex lb
- 77 -
BURUNDI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A- Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
PIP Secteur Agricole 87-89
Plan Quinquetnal ISABU
Burundi Study on Agricutural Sector Financial Issues
Evaluation of Regional Development Companies
B- Selected reports and studies related to the proiect
Rapport ler Semestre 1987 SRD Kirimiro
Rapport Annuel 1986 Kirimiro
!           Monographie de la Province de Gitega
*            Rapport Annuel 1985 SRD Kirimiro
Production semenciere au Burundi
Projet d'appui aux services agricoles (dossier de preparation)
Manuel de Suivi-Evaluation des Projets Agricoles
Plan Comptable Sectoriel
Enquete agricole dans la Province de Ngozi
Rapport Annuel 1986 SRD Buyenzi
SRD Buyenzi Plan Quinquennal 1988-92
Amanagement des Bas Fonds SRD Buyenzi
Les problemes de la commercialisation du riz dans le Buyenzi
Systemes de production et analyse sit. alimentaire et nutrit. Buy
C- Implementation Volume Working Papers
Volet Developpement Cooperatif
Projet de Service Phytosanitaire
Appul a la Recherche/Developpement paysanne (WP Nol)
Role des Communes (WP No2)
Participation des femes dans le developpement (WP No3)
Suivi Evaluation (VP No4)
Programme National de Recherche en fertilisation
Aide-Memoire de la Mission d'Evaluation
Reorganisation des SRD
Fertilizer Study



- 78 -                                   Chart 1
BURUNDI
Acriculturol Servle.e Prolect
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Mlnlstry of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL)
MIUnister    -      Flnancial *nd
!  ,            ~~~~Administrative
l          ~~~Unit
Director General                Director Oeneral        Director General            Director General
for Agriculture                 for Liveetock           for Agricultural             for Extension
Planning (DWPA)
Crop                          Anl                                                        tenion
Productictioroduction                                 Studies and
Programming
An-Al l                                                Budgat and
=-nt and                  I-alth                 Uonitering/                     Personnel
I    W,.Ililstlon                                      Evaluation and
Management
CropI Veterinary                                        Assietance                                                  I
Laboratory
L-4Protection
Agricultural
Education and                             roc
|Trainingll 
IRegional Dof lopment
Companihes



BURUNDI
AGRICULURE SERVICES PROJECT
Buyenzi ROC
Ormanlsation Chart
lDt recteur SRD |
; T       u     l    e~~~~Clll Progira_tTcn|
[f    IIIIIIIIIII          Service Agricol-        Service Agricole|
Service Vulgarisation          Pro    e nProvne                            Service       Tehnqu           Service         Service
at Formation                KAYANZA                  N IProdution                        e          Technologique   Administratit
Agronome Provincial    Agronome Provinclal
R eh rch    |                                                      Centro
d Accomanp  ment|                                                   llutTplientlon
Servie A;rl ricole         Service Agricole
Comunale                   Coamunale
Agronoee Comunala          Agronoie Communal
pFo r tion                                                          |roductl on     '
Encadreur
ide, bass



AGRIClLTURE SERVICE PROJECT
KIRIMIRO - R.D.C.
OROANIZATION CHART
DIRECTEUR SRD
Cons tlilr Prlnip al |
Aduministration                                                                                        D6elp.m,
0~~~~~
St                         OnerrlAgri cl
Fl noane"
Intrautructur..Technotogle                PrdcinVlgarluation &Formation et
lInfrosructur"du cat6                      AgioeEncadrment                                      Etudes
Personnel     ~Constructions          Centres d6pulpage    4P-dPni`re  Caf6l        Cadcu rFrmin
mnue
Approvislonnaaent   Plates at Ponts        Usines de               SemeneesCltrsEue
et Cestlon                   ,vag. S11ectionn6s                                        V
Comptabi ll         wmna.ent                                      Reoesaio                                           Programm Pilots
Sue nces                                      -orne  Iu                                       Nutrition& A. Hyg|
SeCr6tariat]A~a.n                                                     lvg                AgroforestereDoue
bantr tructur s| |Technologio|-fYulg risatlond  ^| |foraet CESt
4Charrol-Carage       LAMel cbro
L du enui sergbecolo                         L Encadromont  |              L EtudOs  
sP-r onn l| qConst~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ruction  uol  PineoC  |                              nfiutur | Xtion



Organlgra.e de M.R.D.H.
IOffice of
Cooperatves atudides                                              erg
Miniour  HRral Husin
.          ~~~Infortlon
and    ilt.                    te   plRul
Documend ttion
Fund 
Director Gbomr l                                                Dir ctor General|
H or Handicroft    e                                         Rural WRt r Supply
Cooperabtie  a nd                                                 and Energy
Rural Housing                                                                        Go
Handitcraft                   Rural Houaing                     l_ 
Cooporutlw |          0       _                *nd UbljXtles             *~~~~~~~~nd Sanitation  Energy
I_.  I  ,.     I         ,           zel                                    |~~~Appopiat  r  Rurlu
Production        Supply and      Tchnic al                         Technologies      Housing         Utilities
Cooperatives      Marketing       Support to
Cooperatives



f                   -       l~~~~~u
rAI 
8 04~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-g C                             LA3
I4_



BURUNDI                                                                                         i
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT                                                                 RWANDA   (
P PROJECT AREA
MEJYINGA PROJECT AREA                        -
.NGOZI PROJECT AREA
KIRLIRO PROJECT AREA  |       aJRwbJ _
OPROVINCE CAPITALS                          oa,f
6  NATIONAL CAPITAL                             B-4
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES     f                    aBn.
COMLUNE BOUNDARIES 
-.-INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES  *Nt".g    KUD                               TN A I
0~~~~~~~~~~/    /                                                                       TANIZANIA
i'   X  KARU                              Z     t  t ~~~~~~~~~K
ZAIRE                       W                     /                                                 zoo
BU MBU         *   'u'         ..'\  .
t  l t 7 j j z E ;> / | ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIIOMETERS
) a .z XCX   n   ) w  S ,r  O  10 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                    0
; *, t Sg4e f =-f }\ RUTJjNAX / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
4,.
mo.. BURURI
/, Tas                   a    ,,u              ,     '                        tk' o
I  r   9; \ fi &  X  l) tH                                    BU~~~~~ ~~RU7Dt   D0    ' 
ZAIRE                      KENYA 1 TANZANIA
29P          3jr



