Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2024 BU
(Agricultural Services Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2024 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated March 10,  1989, from 
the Borrower describing a program of policies, goals and actions  designed to achieve 
an adjustment of the Borrower's agricultural services  sector (the "Program") and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the  execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the Program 
and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to carry out the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project and of urgently  needed imports required during the execution of the 
Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other donors to assist 
Page  2
in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CICM" means Centre International du Credit Mutuel, a non-for profit 
organization established under the laws of France with the purpose of promoting 
cooperative credit, having principal offices in Paris;
(b)
"COOPECs" means Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit, the Savings and 
Credit Cooperatives established in the Borrower's territory and the expression "Bureau 
Central des COOPEC" means the entity in charge of their support and promotion;
(c)
"DGPA" means Direction Generale de la Planification Agricole, the General 
Directorate of Agricultural Planning of MOAL (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"DGV" means Direction Generale de la Vulgarisation, the General 
Directorate for extension within MOAL;
(e)
"FACAGRO" means the Faculty of Agronomy of the University of Burundi;
 
(f)
"ISABU" means Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi, the 
Borrower's National Agricultural Research Institute;
(g)
"MLDTE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Land Development, Tourism and 
Environment;
(h)
"MOAL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
 
(i)
"MRDH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development and Handicraft;
 
(j)
"RDC" means any of the Regional Development Companies established 
pursuant to the Borrower's law-decree No. 1/17 of June 15, 1979; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five  million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required:  (i) for the Project described in 
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars in a banking institution 
satisfactory to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) a special account (hereinafter referred to as "Special Account A") 
for the purposes of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  (ii) a special account (hereinafter referred to 
as "Special Account B") for the purposes of Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit  Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time  to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date 
in that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as 
of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988. 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 1999 and  ending May 15, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment  payable on May 15, 2009 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the  Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association  may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant  element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby entrusts the Director General of DGPA with 
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under Category (6) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for the 
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in 
support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOAL with due diligence  and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide 
promptly as needed, the  funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, and 
in any case not later than September 30 of each year, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions  specified in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its  review and 
comments: (i) a report on the progress achieved in carrying out  the Program, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request;  and (ii) the revised three-year 
rolling Programs of Investments and Public Expenditures for MOAL and MRDH with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
During the exchange of views to take place not later than September 30, 
1990, the Borrower and the Association shall also: (i) with respect to the extension 
staff working in the five provinces within Buyenzi and Kirimiro, assess the progress 
made in the transfer of their   administrative and financial responsibility and 
prepare the transfer to DGV of their technical oversight; (ii) review the achievements 
of the new extension methodology, and more specifically the links between research and 
extension; (iii) review the proposals on the new salary system for agricultural 
services personnel; (iv) assess the performance of MRDH's Cooperative Department in 
providing efficient services to cooperatives; and (v) review the progress in 
establishing a national federation of cooperatives.
(d)
Prior to the exchange of views specified in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall submit to the Association a study on salary and  benefit 
policy for agricultural services personnel satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
apply the principles on procurement, transportation, storage and disposal of 
pesticides set forth in the national regulation on  pesticide usage to be formulated 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part B  of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall include the costs of the provincial 
agricultural services under Part C of the Project in the rolling programs under 
Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and, without limitation upon the generality of 
Page  5
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement with regard to the  provision of funds, shall 
sustain such costs in their entirety starting not later than January 1, 1995.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1992, transfer to DGV the technical oversight 
of the extension staff working in the five provinces within Buyenzi and Kirimiro; and
(b)
maintain, or cause the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro to maintain, all 
extension staff working in the five provinces within Buyenzi and Kirimiro in their 
employment status as of the date of this Agreement, until the earlier of: (i) December 
31, 1992; or (ii) the date of the transfer of the administrative and financial 
responsibility over such extension staff;
(c)
not later than April 30, 1991 submit a study satisfactory to the 
Association on RDCs garage operations;
(d)
not later than December 31, 1991 cause the RDC of Buyenzi to: (i) have 
the Ngozi and Kirundo rice mills managed as separate commercial and financial 
entities; and (ii) implement the recommendations of the action plan under paragraph 2 
of Part A of Schedule 6 to this  Agreement for the  transfer of the Ngozi and Kirundo 
rice mills to the private sector or for their liquidation; and
(e)
starting not later than January 1, 1992, sustain, among others out of the 
profit margin on the sale of livestock drugs, the non-salary operating expenses of 
livestock agents in the five provinces of the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Page  6
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 5.Ol. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
(i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.O1 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.Ol of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.Ol 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established in due form an Administrative and Financial 
Service within MOAL;
(b)
the Borrower has retained for the Service referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section a Chief Accounting Officer qualified and experienced; and
(c)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association the terms of reference of 
the study specified in Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement.
Page  7
Section 6.O2. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
agriculture is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
B.P. 1850
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINAGRI
5147 MINAGRI BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Parts A,         1,650,000
          C and D of
          the Project
     (b)  under Part B              40,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part E (ii)        180,000
          of the Project
(2)  Equipment and                               100% of foreign
     vehicles:                                   expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Parts A,         1,700,000
          C and D of
          the Project
     (b)  under Part B             340,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part E (i)         310,000
          of the Project
     (d)  under Part E (ii)        150,000
          of the Project
(3)  Consultants'services:                       100%
     (a)  under Parts A,         3,830,000
          C and D of
          the Project
     (b)  under Part B              40,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part E (i)         350,000
          of the Project
(4)  Training, research                          100% of foreign
     and studies:                                expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Parts A,         3,950,000
          C and D of
          the Project
     (b)  under Part B             180,000
          of the Project
Page  9
     (c)  under Part E (i)         180,000
          of the Project
     (d)  under Part E (ii)        320,000
          of the Project
(5)  Operating costs:                            90% of expendi-
                                                 tures paid through
     (a)  under Parts A,         2,110,000       December 31, 1990;
          C and D of                             80% of expendi-
          the Project                            tures paid from
                                                 January 1, 1991 to
     (b)  under Part B             930,000       December 31, 1991;
          of the Project                         60% of expendi-
                                                 tures paid from
     (c)  under Part E (i)         310,000       January 1, 1992 to
          of the Project                         December 31, 1992;
                                                 40% of expendi-
     (d)  under Part E (ii)        190,000       tures paid from
          of the Project                         January 1, 1993 to
                                                 December 31, 1993;
                                                 20% of expendi-
                                                 tures paid from
                                                 January 1, 1994 to
                                                 December 31, 1994
(6)  Goods required                              100% of foreign
     during execution                            expenditures
     of the Program:
     (a)  fertilizer             3,400,000
     (b)  phytosanitary          2,120,000
          products
     (c)  veterinary             1,520,000
          products and
          equipment for
          agriculture
(7)  Unallocated                 1,300,000
                               ___________
     TOTAL                      25,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means salaries of incremental staff under the 
Project, adjustment indemnities for the extension staff of the  RDC of Kirimiro, 
office supplies and vehicle operating costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) (a) of 
paragraph 1 above until: (i) the Borrower has appointed in DGV: (A) one  technical 
Page  10
assistant recruited internationally; (B) one technical assistant recruited in the 
Borrower's territory; (C) a chief of the Extension  Service; and (D) a chief of the 
Training Service; (ii) a cooperation agreement satisfactory to the Association for the 
provision of scientific support to extension services has been entered into between 
DGV and ISABU; (iii) the Borrower has appointed in DGPA an officer in charge of 
monitoring and evaluating the Programs of Investments and Public Expenditures referred 
to in Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; (iv) the Borrower has appointed in DGPA 
a sector planner; and (v) the Borrower has appointed in  DGPA a management advisor 
with special mandate on the supervision of Part D of the Project;
(c)
under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5) (b) of 
paragraph 1 above until: (i) a cooperation agreement satisfactory to the Association 
for the carrying out of Part B (ii) of the Project has been  entered into between 
ISABU and FACAGRO; and (ii) a cooperation agreement  satisfactory to the Association 
for the conduct of field trials and demonstrations in connection with Part B (ii) of 
the Project has been  entered into between DGV, ISABU, and FACAGRO;
(d)
under Categories (1) (c), (2) (c), (3) (c), (4) (c) and (5) (c) of 
paragraph 1 above until: (i) a Cooperative Promotion Committee has been  established 
in due form to carry out the Borrower's cooperative development  policy and coordinate 
the activities of donors' agencies and Borrower's entities involved in such policy; 
and (ii) the Borrower has employed a  cooperative management advisor with MRDH's 
Directorate of Cooperatives; and
(e)
under Categories (2) (d), (4) (d) and (5) (d) of paragraph 1 above until 
a cooperation agreement providing for the continuation of assistance  by CICM to the 
Bureau Central des COOPEC has been made.
4.
(a)
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (6)  of paragraph 1 
above, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the  Program, and (ii) that the actions described in 
Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken. 
(b)
No further withdrawal or commitment shall be made, under Category (6) of 
paragraph 1 above, after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments  under said Category (6) 
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 3,400,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied after a further such exchange of views: (i) with the further progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions 
described in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph 4 above,  the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress  achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (6) of 
paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
(i)
to develop MOAL's analytical, programming and budgeting 
capabilities, as well 
as its sector management capacity;
 
(ii)
to design and establish a national extension system based on: (A) 
work 
programming, continuing training and linkage with research; 
(B) analysis of 
farmers needs and practices; and (C) development of 
technologies adapted to 
the various ecological and farming systems;
 
(iii)
to improve efficiency and reduce the costs of agricultural 
Page  11
services through 
reorganization of the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro; 
and
(iv)
to promote agricultural input delivery, food crop marketing and 
agricultural 
system management through support to the national 
agricultural input policy 
and through promotion of the private sector 
and of cooperatives.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of MOAL's Programming, Budgeting, and Monitoring 
Capabilities
(i)
Strengthening of MOAL's General Directorate for Planning;
 
(ii)
establishment within MOAL of a Financial and Administrative 
Service and;
(iii)
strengthening within MOAL of the General Directorate for 
extension;
Part B:
Strengthening of Agricultural Research
 
(i)
Strengthening within ISABU of a Phytosanitary Research Service and 
design and 
implementation of a Phytopathology Service Program;
 
(ii)
design and financing of a National Fertilizer Research Program; 
and
(iii)
preparation activities for the reorganization of agricultural 
research.
Part C:
Reorganization and Strengthening of Agricultural Services
 
(i)
Reorganization and strengthening of extension services in the five 
provinces 
comprised in the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro;
 
(ii)
carrying out of a staff training program;
 
(iii)
carrying out, with the support of ISABU, of a program of adaptive 
and on-farm 
research in the five provinces specified under (i) above;
 
(iv)
strengthening of livestock services in the five provinces 
specified under (i) 
above;
 
(v)
land protection and development;
 
(vi)
promotion of rural youth employment in the provinces of Ngozi and 
Muramvya; and
 
(vii)
preparation of pilot communal development plans in the provinces 
of Ngozi and 
Muramvya.
 
Part D:
Reorganization of RDCs' commercial activities
 
(i)
Development of private sector and cooperatives; and
 
(ii)
monitoring and evaluation.
 
Part E:
Strengthening of the Cooperative Movement
 
(i)
Equipment, technical assistance, training and studies for the 
MRDH's 
Cooperative Department; and
 
(ii)
financing of the credit and saving cooperatives's movement.
Page  12
*    *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works for Categories (1), (2), (4) and (5) of 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be  granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the  provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items which cannot be grouped, or groups of items estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $100,000 and not less than the equivalent of $20,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive   bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Civil works contracts for erosion and swamp control may be procured  under force 
accounts from the RDCs and MLDTE in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000 per  contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured directly 
with the supplier.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and to each other contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall  apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of Special Account A, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two  conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of Special Account A in 
Page  13
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of Special Account A, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ  consultants and experts whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants and experts shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
Without limitation on the generality of paragraph 1 of this Section: 
 
(a)
in order to carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i)
retain the following staff and consultants for MOAL:
 
                    (A)
an agricultural economist for the Studies and Programming 
Directorate of 
DGPA;
 
(B)
a monitoring and evaluation specialist for the Directorate 
of 
Monitoring-Evaluation and Management Assistance of 
DGPA;
(C)
a financial management specialist for the Directorate of 
Monitoring-Evaluation and Management Assistance of 
DGPA;
(D)
an extension specialist for DGV; and
 
(E)
a training specialist for DGV; and
 
(ii)
not later than March 31, 1990 submit to the Association long-term 
manpower 
projections and a training program for agricultural 
extension activities in 
the Borrower's territory;
 
(b)
in order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i)
retain a fertilizer expert for FACAGRO for the implementation of 
the National 
Fertilizer Research Program under Part B (ii) of the 
Project; and
(ii)
retain a phytopathologist for ISABU for the implementation of the 
Phytopathology Service Program under Part B (i) of the 
Project; and
(c)
in order to carry out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall retain a 
financial management expert for each of the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro.
Section III.
Procurement of goods for Category (6) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
Page  14
this Agreement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive  bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I and II of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines"), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in  
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines: 
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the 
bidder 
to state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $500,000 and of not less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations  solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 each 
shall be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of 
such goods.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed  copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably request 
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of Special Account B, the 
copies of such contract or the documentation and the  information to be furnished to 
the Association, pursuant to the provisions  of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this 
Page  15
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
7.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
     Measures                       Action            Deadline
A. Reorganization of the       - consultant's       - August 31, 1989
   RDC of Buyenzi's              mission
   management                  - consultant's       - October 31, 1989
                                 report
                               - review by          - December 31, 1989
                                 Association
                               - starting of        - January 31, 1990
                                 implementation of
                                 recommendations
B. Reorganization of RDCs'     - submission of a    - March 31, 1990
   extension services            training program
                               - agreement between  - September 30, 1989
                                 ISABU and DGV
                               - transfer of ex-    - December 31, 1992
                                 tension services
C. Reorganization of RDCs'     - consultant's       - February 28, 1991
   garage operations             report
                               - approval of study  - April 30, 1991
                                 by Association
D. Reorganization of RDCs'     - agreement on       - October 31, 1989
   road maintenance              terms of reference
   services                    - submission         - March 31, 1990
                                 of study
                               - starting of        - December 31, 1990
                                 implementation of
                                 recommendations
E. Strengthening of DGPA       - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 monitoring and
                                 evaluation officer
                               - appointment of a   - September 30, 1989
                                 sectoral planner
                               - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 management
                                 specialist
                               - international      - November 30, 1989
                                 recruitment of
                                 sectoral planning
                                 expert
                               - international      - November 30, 1989
                                 recruitment of
                                 monitoring and
                                 evaluation expert
                               - international      - November 30, 1989
                                 recruitment of
                                 financial
                                 management expert
F. Creation of MOAL's          - creation of unit   - September 30, 1989
   Administrative and          - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
Page  16
   Financial Service             chief accountant
G. Strengthening of the        - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
   General Directorate           Chief of Training
   of Extension in MOAL          Service
                               - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 Chief of Extension
                                 Service
                               - recruitment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 training expert
                               - recruitment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 extension expert
H. Formulation of agri-        - study presenta-    - December 31, 1989
   cultural services staff       tion
   salary structure            - consultation with  - April 30, 1990
                                 the Association
                               - starting of        - July 31, 1990
                                 implementation of
                                 recommendations
I. Preparation of three-       - identification of  - September 30, 1989
   year Programs of              monitoring
   Investments and Public        indicators
   Expenditures for the        - preparation of     - September 30, 1989
   Agricultural Sector           guidelines for
                                 monitoring of the
                                 Program of Invest-
                                 ments and Public
                                 Expenditures
J. Design of a national        - establishment of   - September 30, 1989
   fertilizer program            coordinating
                                 committee
                               - agreement among    - September 30, 1989
                                 ISABU, FACAGRO
                                 and DGV
                               - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
                                 an expert in
                                 fertilization
                               - implementation     - December 31, 1993
                                 of National
                                 Fertilizer
                                 Research Program
K. Strengthening               - creation of a      - September 30, 1989
   of the Cooperative            promotion
   Department                    committee
L. Implementation of           - application of     - September 30, 1989
   measures on agricul-          a unified fiscal
   tural inputs                  policy for the
                                 public and
                                 private sectors
                               - transfer of        - December 31, 1993
                                 retail marketing
                                 to cooperatives
                                 and private
                                 sector
M. Design of a pest            - appointment of     - September 30, 1989
   management program            pest management
                                 specialist
                               - design of a        - June 30, 1990
                                 national
                                 regulatory
                                 scheme on
Page  17
                                 pesticides
N. Design and implemen-        - design of a        - January 31, 1990
   tation of a seed              national seed
   program                       program
O. Reorganization              - agreement on       - September 30, 1989
   of Agricultural               terms of
   Research                      reference
                               - recruitment of     - January 31, 1990
                                 consultants
                               - approval           - December 31, 1990
                                 of the study
                                 by the Association
P. COOPEC development          - recruitment of     - September 30, 1990
                                 two experts
                               - construction of    - November 30, 1990
                                 regional branches
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of Special Account 
A, Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to  this 
Agreement; and (ii) in the case of Special Account B, Category (6) set forth in said 
table; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of: (i) goods and services required for the Project; and (ii) goods 
required during the execution of the Program; 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into each of the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to $2,000,000 and 
in the case of Special Account B, to $1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation concerned, the  Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of such Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into such Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  18
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the relevant Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have 
been made out of such Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the relevant 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the  General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall  specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied  
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account concerned as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such  additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account concerned shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or  made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for  subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant   provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Conditions for Release of Sector Import Financing
(Category (6) of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement)
The following actions shall be taken consistent with the principles outlined in 
the Program and in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
Page  19
Part A:
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(Conditions 
for Release of First Tranche)
 
1.
The Borrower has submitted the 1989 budget and the 1990 draft budget for the 
RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower has submitted an action plan for the reorganization of the 
management, by the RDC of Buyenzi, of the Ngozi and Kirundo rice mills satisfactory to 
the Association.
3.
The Borrower has increased or caused the RDCs of Buyenzi and Kirimiro to 
increase the consumer price of fertilizer sold by such RDCs by not less than 25% over 
the consumer price applied as of January 1, 1989.
4.
A Fertilizer Policy Committee has been established with the following 
attributions:
(a)
to design the national policy on fertilizer research, production and 
imports; and
(b)
to coordinate the import of fertilizers.
 
Part B:
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(Conditions 
for Release of Second Tranche)
 
1.
The Borrower has formulated a national regulation on pesticide usage.
 
2.
The Borrower has formulated a national policy on seed production and marketing.
 
3.
The Borrower has completed the transfer of administrative and financial 
responsibility for all the extension staff working in at least one province within 
Buyenzi and at least one province within Kirimiro.
4.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association the MOAL's and MRDH's rolling 
Programs of Investments and Public Expenditures for the years 1990 through 1993.
5.
The Borrower has started implementing the recommendations agreed with the 
Association of the study specified in Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement in relation 
to the extension staff working in the five provinces within Buyenzi and Kirimiro.
