                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank



                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                 Report No: ICR0000659




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-45770)




                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$280 MILLION

                                            TO

                                           INDIA

                                         FOR THE

                      GUJARAT STATE HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                       June 18, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/2008)

                              Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (INR)
                                 Indian Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.025
                                     US$ 1.00 = INR40.11

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                       April 1 - March 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOT   Build-Operate-Transfer                       NH       National Highway
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                  NPV      Net Present Value
EMP   Environmental Management Plan                ODR      Other District Road
EMU   Environmental Management Unit                PAD      Project Appraisal Document
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                      PAPs     Project Affected Peoples
FIDIC Fédération Internationale des Ingénieurs-    PCC      Project Coordinating Consultants
      Conseils                                     PDO      Project Development Objectives
GIDB  Gujarat Infrastructure Development Board     PFMS     Project Financial Management System
GOG   Government of Gujarat                        PI       Performance Indicator
GOI   Government of India                          P&P      Policy and Planning
GRDC  Gujarat Roads Development Corporation        PPU      Policy and Planning Unit
GRMS Gujarat Road Management System                PWD      Public Works Department
GSHP  Gujarat State Highway Project                QAG      Quality Assurance Group
HDU   Highway Design Unit                          QSA6     6th Quality of Supervision Assessment
ICR   Implementation Completion Report             R&BD     Roads and Buildings Department
INR   Indian Rupee                                 RMC      Road Maintenance Component
IRI   International Roughness Index (m/km)         R&R      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
ISAP  Institutional Strengthening Action Plan      RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
M&E   Monitoring & Evaluation                      SH       State Highway
MDR   Major District Roads                         TA       Technical Assistance
MTR   Mid-term Review                              VR       Village Road
NGO   Non Governmental Organization                W&S      Widening and Strengthening (Component)




                Vice President: Praful Patel
              Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
               Sector Manager: George Tharakan (Acting)
         Project Team Leader: Ke Fang
            ICR Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada

                                                  INDIA
                             Gujarat State Highway Project


                                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information                                                                                                     1
   B. Key Dates                                                                                                             1
   C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                       1
   D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                2
   E. Bank Staff                                                                                                            2
   F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                            2
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                                5
   H. Restructuring                                                                                                         5
   I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                    6

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 41
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 51
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                GUJARAT STATE HIGHWAY
Country:               India               Project Name:
                                                                PROJECT

Project ID:            P010566             L/C/TF Number(s):    IBRD-45770

ICR Date:              06/18/2008          ICR Type:            Intensive Learning ICR

                                                                INDIA (GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                 Borrower:
                                                                INDIA)

Original Total
                       USD381.0 Million    Disbursed Amount:    USD280.00 Million
Commitment:

Environmental Category: B

Implementing Agencies:
Government of Gujarat Roads and Buildings Department

Co-financiers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

      Process              Date              Process          Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                     Date(s)

Concept Review:         10/15/1997     Effectiveness:           11/28/2000          11/28/2000

Appraisal:              03/23/1998     Restructuring(s):

Approval:               09/05/2000     Mid-term Review:         06/30/2002          10/26/2002

                                       Closing:                 12/31/2005          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                        Highly Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible

Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                            Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory            Government:              Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                 Agency/Agencies:         Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory            Performance:             Highly Satisfactory




                                               - i -

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance         Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)           Rating

Potential Problem Project at any
                                    No            Quality at Entry (QEA):      None
time (Yes/No):

Problem Project at any time
                                    No            Quality of Supervision (QSA): Moderately Satisfactory
(Yes/No):

DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                    Satisfactory
status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original            Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Central government administration                                       2                   2

Roads and highways                                                     98                  98

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)

Other rural development                                               Primary            Primary

Pollution management and environmental health                       Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                           At Approval

Vice President:              Praful C. Patel                         Mieko Nishimizu

Country Director:            Isabel Guerrero                         Edwin R. Lim

Sector Manager:              George Tharakan (Acting)                Jonathan Kamkwalala

Project Team Leader:         Ke Fang                                 Fabio Galli

ICR Team Leader:             Mitsuyoshi Asada

ICR Primary Author:          Mitsuyoshi Asada/Natalya Stankevich


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main development objectives of the project are to enhance the capacity of the
Government of Gujarat (GOG) for the effective and efficient planning and management
of road infrastructure, while concurrently maximizing existing road infrastructure asset
utilization through priority investments and increased maintenance funding.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.




                                                  - ii -

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target       Formally        Actual Values

    Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                   approval       Revised Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduce travel time by 10% on about 1,900 km of roads
                improved/maintained/rehabilitated under the Project.

Value                                        Average                              Average car/truck/bus
quantitative or Average car/truck/bus        car/truck/bus speed                  speed on completed
Qualitative)    speed: 50 km/h               on completed roads:
                                             60 km/h.                             roads: 60 km/h.

Date achieved            09/05/2000               12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The travel time on the project roads was reduced as targeted.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Maintenance funding for road network to be increased by 10% in real terms per annum
                over the life of the Project.

Value                                        10% annual real                      10% annual increase
quantitative or 10% annual real increase     increase achieved                    achieved through the
Qualitative)    starting from IFY00/01       during the project
                                             years                                project years.

Date achieved            09/05/2000               12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   ERR as per appraisal estimates
Value
quantitative or              44%                      44%                                 57.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/05/2000               12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The overall ex-post ERR is higher than the appraisal estimate by 13 percentage points.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Maintenance backlog reduced by about 20% on State Highways by end of project

Value                                        Total backlog ­                      Total backlog ­ about

quantitative or Total backlog ­ about        about 4,000 km, of                   5,000 km, of which

Qualitative)    10,000 km                    which 1,900 km                       1,832 km reduction
                                             reduction by GSHP                    by GSHP
Date achieved            09/05/2000               12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The total maintenance backlog was reduced by 50%, substantially exceeding the target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                   approval       Revised Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   About 800-900 km of State Highways (SHs) improved by June 2005.
Value                                        800-900 km of SHs 800-900 km of 871 km of SHs
(quantitative   0 km of SHs improved         improved by          SHs improved improved by



                                                 - iii -

or Qualitative)                                December 2004         by June 2005    December 2007
Date achieved    09/05/2000                    12/31/2004            06/30/2005      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Achievement of the target value was confirmed by the last mission in December 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    About 1,000 km of SHs maintained to a 'good' standard (IRI<4.0) by June 2004
Value                                          857 km of SHs         969 km of SHs 969 km of SHs
(quantitative    0 km of SHs maintained        maintained by         maintained by   maintained by
or Qualitative)                                December 2002         December 2004 December 2007
Date achieved    09/05/2005                    12/31/2002            06/30/2004      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Achievement of the target value was confirmed by the last mission in December 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Implementation of the agreed ISAP focused on R&BD
Value                                          ISAP fully                            ISAP approx. 98%
(quantitative    ISAP finalized                                                      implemented as per
or Qualitative)                                implemented                           PAD.
Date achieved    09/05/2000                    12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          The planned institutional strengthening strategy under the project was substantially and

achievement)     soundly achieved by the end of the project.

Indicator 4 :    500 R&BD staff to have participated in relevant training schemes
Value
(quantitative    0 trained                     500 trained                           Over 1,500 staff

or Qualitative)                                                                      trained

Date achieved    09/05/2000                    12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          The final value was more than 3 times the target.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Reduce administrative costs in relation to capital/maintenance budget by 10% by EOP.
Value
(quantitative    Ratio of about 30%            Ratio of about 20%                    Ratio of 15.7%

or Qualitative)                                                                      approx.

Date achieved    09/05/2000                    12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          The final value was about 1.4 times more than targeted.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    Baseline and regular traffic counts and IRI measurements on improved SHs
Value                                          IRI<4.0 m/km                          IRI<4.0 m/km already
(quantitative    IRI>4.0 m/km                  achieved on                           achieved on
or Qualitative)                                completed roads                       completed roads
Date achieved    09/05/2000                    12/31/2005                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          The targeted IRI value was achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 No.       Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
           Archived                 DO                             IP                  (USD millions)
   1      09/12/2000            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                         0.00
   2      11/02/2000            Satisfactory              Highly Satisfactory                       0.00
   3      05/10/2001            Satisfactory              Highly Satisfactory                     40.89



                                                  - iv -

 No.     Date ISR                                           Actual Disbursements
         Archived           DO                   IP            (USD millions)
  4     12/20/2001       Satisfactory        Satisfactory               49.11
  5     06/24/2002       Satisfactory        Satisfactory               46.53
  6     12/02/2002       Satisfactory        Satisfactory               58.30
  7     06/23/2003       Satisfactory        Satisfactory               82.17
  8     12/09/2003       Satisfactory        Satisfactory               97.71
  9     05/20/2004       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              129.88
  10    09/20/2004       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              138.46
  11    02/01/2005       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              153.45
  12    07/08/2005       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              188.89
  13    01/03/2006       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              207.08
  14    07/11/2006       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              241.24
  15    01/01/2007       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              249.57
  16    06/25/2007       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              266.85
 17     12/20/2007       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              279.11


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                      - v -

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 The project was approved at a time when Gujarat's economy, and India's as a
whole, were growing at 6-8% per year and demand for road transport was projected to
double in a decade in response. To meet the growing demand for road transport
infrastructure, both the Government of India (GOI) and the State Government of Gujarat
(GOG) embarked on large road development programs via the National Highway
Development Plan (in the case of the GOI) and various state-level initiatives to improve
and upgrade the state-managed road network.

1.1.2 Capacity of the State Road Network: At the time of appraisal Gujarat, with an area
of 196,000 square km and a population of about 48 million (1999 estimate), had one of
the most developed but congested road networks in India. Gujarat's then current road
network consists of 1,570 km of National Highways (NH), 19,655 km of State Highways
(SH), 20,364 km of Major District Roads (MDR), 10,355 km of Other District Roads
(ODR), and 18,665 km of Village Roads (VR). The rapid growth of vehicle ownership in
Gujarat (14% per year during the last 15 years) coupled with the poor quality and
condition of the road network, led people to expect that congestion would increase and
the quality of road transport services would deteriorate.

1.1.3 Rationale for Bank Assistance: The World Bank was in a unique position to
respond to the opportunities and challenges faced by Gujarat by (a) providing the critical
long-term capital needed to support infrastructure development for accelerated economic
growth, (b) using its lending and advisory capabilities to leverage the institutional and
policy reform process, and (c) ensuring that social and environmental concerns would be
fully reflected in project design and implementation.

1.1.4 Higher-level Objectives: At the time of approval, the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) targeted the reduction of infrastructure constraints for economic growth
by:

    (a) promoting State-level reforms in the road infrastructure sector;
    (b) improving strategic planning and maintenance effectiveness;
    (c) mobilizing increased outlays for investment and maintenance of road
        infrastructure; and
    (d) facilitating private sector involvement in engineering, construction and
        maintenance.

1.1.5 The Gujarat State Highway Project (GSHP) was designed to address several key
sector issues by:

    (a) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Roads and Buildings Department
        (R&BD) to better manage the State road network, through the development and
        implementation of a comprehensive institutional strengthening action plan;
    (b) improving the capacity and structural quality of key segments of the core State
        road network, by widening and strengthening of about 800-900 km of SHs; and




                                             1

    (c) reducing the maintenance backlog, by funding the periodic maintenance of about
        1,000 km of high priority State roads.

1.1.6 The project, therefore, was expected to contribute to most of the CAS targets.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The PDO was to enhance the capacity of the Government of Gujarat for effective
and efficient planning and management of road infrastructure, while concurrently
maximizing existing road infrastructure asset utilization through priority investments and
increased maintenance funding.

1.2.2 The PDO was monitored using the following indicators (as described in PAD
Annex 1):

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

(a) Reduce travel time by 10% on about 1,900 km of roads improved and maintained
    under the project;
(b) Maintenance funding to be increased by 10% in real terms over the next five years;
(c) Economic rate of return as per appraisal estimates;
(d) Maintenance backlog reduced by 20% on state highways by December 2002.

Output Indicators:

(e) Baseline and regular traffic counts & International Roughness Index (IRI)
    measurements on improved state highways;
(f) About 800-900 km of high priority state highways improved by December 2004;
(g) About 1,000 km of state roads maintained to a "good" standard (IRI less than 4.0
    m/km) by December 2002;
(h) Reduce ratio of administrative cost to capital/maintenance expenditures by 10% by
    the end of the project;
(i) Implement agreed institutional strengthening and modernization action plans;
(j) About 500 R&BD and project-related staff to have taken part in training schemes.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

1.3.1 The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The primary beneficiaries of the project were the traveling public, agricultural
and industrial producers, consumers and local communities. As a result of reduction in
the transport bottlenecks and lower passenger and freight transport costs, they were
expected to benefit from improved access to social, health, education and economic
services, as well as from reduction in fares, marketing costs of products and the prices of
goods. In addition, the project was expected to lead to (i) greater employment
opportunities through increased economic activity and enhanced competitiveness of the
tradable sectors of the State economy; (ii) enhanced agricultural sector productivity and
incomes through improved access to urban industrial consumption centers; and (iii)
reduced negative social and environmental impacts of road infrastructure development by



                                             2

fully developing the traffic-carrying capacity of existing road right-of-way and
integrating environmental management measures into the design, construction and
operation of road improvements.

1.4.2 The secondary beneficiaries were the R&BD headquarters and field staff, and the
road construction industry. The project was expected to lead to: (i) better use of public
funds for the road sector through the improved efficiency and effectiveness of the
R&BD; and (ii) modernization of the Indian road construction industry through improved
international contract management practices, as well as through the opportunity to carry
out high quality civil works and maintenance contracts over a five year period.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The project consisted of the following components:

1.5.2 Component 1: Widening and Strengthening of State Highways (estimated total
cost: $415.0 million). The carrying capacity and structural strength of part of the core
State road network was to be increased through the widening and strengthening of about
800-900 km of high priority state highways.

1.5.3 Component 2: Land Acquisition and Relocation & Resettlement Expenditures
(estimated total cost: $2.0 million). The land acquisition costs and cash compensation
paid under the land acquisition act and assistance covered under State-sponsored
rehabilitation schemes were to be borne by the GOG. Other costs, such as any difference
between the compensation paid under the land acquisition act and the replacement value
of the assets acquired (which were to be paid in the form of assistance), infrastructure
facilities and resettlement sites, R&R entitlements including allowances, training, and
monitoring and evaluation expenditures, were to be funded by the Bank loan.

1.5.4 Component 3: Periodic Maintenance of State Highways (estimated total cost:
$68.0 million). This component was to help reduce the periodic maintenance backlog by
funding the overlaying, resealing and minor rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of state
highways. It aimed to support three annual periodic maintenance programs.

1.5.5 Component 4: Design and Supervision of Civil Works Contracts (estimated
total cost: $32.0 million). Internationally experienced supervision consultants were to be
procured to supervise the Widening and Strengthening component of the project and have
full responsibility as the "Engineer" on site as per Fédération Internationale des
Ingénieurs-Conseils (FIDIC) conditions. Experienced consultants were also to be used for
preparation of bid documents and oversight of periodic maintenance works.1

1.5.6 Component 5: Institutional Strengthening, TA, Training and Equipment
(estimated total cost: $12.0 million). This component was to fund consultant services and



1The preparation of the techno-economic feasibility studies and detailed engineering for Phases I and IIA roads (about
$4.0 million) was funded under the TA Loan (Ln. 4114-IN)




                                                          3

technical assistance required to implement the Institutional Development Study and
institutional strengthening action plans designed to strengthen the R&BD's role as the
"manager" of Gujarat's road network. The consultancy services included the Project
Preparation and Coordinating Consultants (PCC) for supporting the overall
implementation by the Employer. The training was to focus on the planning and
management of the State road network, with particular emphasis on the areas of
procurement, construction and maintenance management of the existing network.
Equipment was to be procured under this component for the R&BD office & laboratory
modernization and road management systems. Equipment was also to be procured to
monitor pollution and noise emissions along the main arterial routes.

1.5.7 Component 6: Pre-investment Studies (estimated total cost: $4.0 million).
Techno-economic feasibility and detailed engineering studies required for a possible
follow-up project would also be funded.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 None of the project components was revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 Scope of works. Six earthquake-damaged bridges were added to the Road
Widening and Strengthening component after a historic earthquake struck the state of
Gujarat on January 26, 2001. The fourth annual periodic maintenance program was added
to the Periodic Maintenance component, and 22 km of roads were added to contract
GSHP-12. All newly-added works were funded from the project savings as a result of
lower-than-expected civil works unit costs and slight depreciation of the Rupee against
the US dollar during the early part of project implementation.

1.7.2 Schedule. The loan closing date was extended twice, for twelve months each time,
and the loan finally closed on December 31, 2007. The first extension was required
because of the need to complete the 2001 earthquake-damaged bridges, while the second
extension was required because of the delays in civil works construction caused by the
unusually prolonged monsoon rains in the summers of 2005 and 2006.

1.7.3 Funding allocations. The initial loan amount was $381 million. At the request of
the Borrower, $31 million was cancelled from the loan amount in June 2004, followed by
a second cancellation of $30 million in August 2005, and a third cancellation of $40
million in June 2006, in part due to significant competitive cost reductions. The final loan
amount disbursed was $280.00 million. This large cost reduction is discussed in Section
3.4.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Background Analysis and Design: The GSHP was the second Bank-financed
transport project in the State. It was designed and developed applying lessons learned
from the first Bank-financed project ­ the Gujarat Rural Road project. Gujarat was also a
major participating state in the State Roads Project around 1991-1996, which also had


                                             4

significant influence on the GSHP design. The preparation of GSHP and several other
highway projects was assisted through a technical assistance project, the India Road
Infrastructure TA Project. The key lessons taken into account concerned:

    (a) comprehensive preparation of engineering, social, environmental, and institutional
        aspects to ensure quality at entry before the start of project appraisal;
    (b) early implementation of institutional strengthening measures to enhance
        institutional capacity for effective project management;
    (c) advanced procurement actions and strengthening of procurement capabilities to
        award civil works contracts as soon as the loan became effective;
    (d) improved inter-agency coordination and ownership through a participatory project
        preparation process;
    (e) full site preparation and availability before award of civil works contracts;
    (f) improved competitiveness of the contractor/consultant industry through efficient
        procurement, improved project management, and contract administration; and
    (g) integration of environmental management in project planning and design.

2.1.2 Participatory Process: The project was prepared in a participatory manner with
several stakeholder workshops and discussions to meet the needs and aspirations of
different stakeholders. These included various government departments, community
leaders, local government officials, potentially affected people, grass-root associations
established for vulnerable groups, NGOs, and special user groups indirectly affected by
the right-of-way location. Stakeholder consultations had an influence on the road design
and environmental and social impact mitigation measures. For example, they led the
designers to take into account the needs of non-motorized traffic, and to reflect local
opinion in the selection of alignments, better handling of the treatment of roadside shrines,
dust suppression, and reduction in noise levels in the vicinity of communities during
construction. The comprehensive Institutional Development Study, which aimed to
facilitate the formulation of the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) for the
transformation of the R&BD from "provider" to "manager" of road infrastructure, was
also undertaken in a fully participatory manner to maximize inputs from other relevant
departments within the GOG and from road transport infrastructure users.

2.1.3 Risks and Mitigation Measures: All risks were properly identified and mitigation
measures were developed. The main risk was that inadequate maintenance funding would
impede efforts to reduce the maintenance backlog and halt further deterioration of the
network. However, the GOG and the R&BD showed a high degree of commitment to
priority investments. They increased maintenance funding by 10% annually throughout
the project period (this was one of the key performance indicators), which contributed to
the success in reducing the maintenance backlog on SHs more than had been hoped (also
one of the key performance indicators).          This was a result of the GOG's strong
commitment to the project.

2.1.4 Quality at Entry: No quality-at-entry assessment of the project was carried out by
the Quality Assurance Group.




                                               5

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Implementation was satisfactory throughout the course of the project. The
following were the main factors that affected implementation of the project:

(a)  Force majeure events delayed start of project implementation and work execution.
     Due to the nuclear sanctions against India and Pakistan, the project was on hold for
     two years from appraisal in 1998 until its presentation to World Bank's Board in
     2000. In less than half a year after the loan became effective, Gujarat was hit by a
     devastating earthquake that killed 20,000 people and caused extensive damage to
     the state's infrastructure, including roads and bridges. In addition, the heavy
     monsoons in 2005 and 2006 caused delays in the civil works, as contractors were
     not able to work. The 2001 earthquake also delayed the institutional component, as
     the R&BD and the GOG had to concentrate on post-earthquake emergency
     reconstruction of roads and buildings. The loan's two-year extension enabled
     completion of all the planned civil works, and implementation of the capacity
     building and institutional development efforts envisaged at appraisal.

(b)  Highly competitive construction industry helped to reduce cost. Gujarat's relatively
     conducive business environment helped in the emergence of local and regional
     contractors, leading to the creation of a competitive construction market in the state.
     During the first phases of the project, there was a relative dearth of civil works
     contracts in Gujarat, and more generally in India. This highly competitive market
     contributed to the lower-than-expected bid prices.

(c)  The GOG's commitment to reduce project cost. During project preparation, much
     time was spent to ensure robust and realistic cost estimates for civil works. When
     the project was `re-activated", after being on hold from May 1998 to September
     2000, another detailed review of the project costs was carried out jointly by the
     Bank team and the R&BD to verify their robustness. The R&BD also showed its
     intolerance of bids above the engineers' estimate and, with the Bank's no objection,
     re-bid one of the contracts, which eventually was awarded at 20% below the
     engineer's estimate. In addition, the Finance Department always insisted that the
     R&BD provide justification for the prices paid. The GOG's commitment to cost
     reduction not only avoided any cost-overruns but also led to substantial project
     savings.

(d)  Highly professional conduct by the three contracting parties (client, contractors,
     and consultants) helped in the smooth implementation of the works and minimized
     contractual disputes. GSHP had very few cases of contract claims or disputes. Only
     seven disputes arose in the 15 upgrading works contracts, of which only two cases
     were referred to arbitration and none was referred to the court; only six out of the
     15 upgrading works contracts had an upward variation order, whereas the remaining
     nine were completed at lower than the contract prices. The three contracting parties
     (i.e. employer, engineer and contractor) fostered a spirit of professionalism which
     allowed the achievement of efficient and dispute-free progress of the civil works
     and avoided the large time and cost overruns typical for large-scale works contracts
     in other Indian states.




                                             6

(e)   Continuity of the project team. Most of the team from the implementing agency and
      the Bank remained the same from project inception and throughout the extended
      implementation period. This promoted close cooperation between the Bank and the
      client, while building stronger ownership and commitment to the project among the
      R&BD staff.

2.2.2 The Quality Assurance Group's QSA6 panel assessed the overall quality of
supervision in FY03-04 as moderately satisfactory, even though it judged that the focus
on development objectives and the supervision inputs and processes were adequate. The
overall rating reflected deficiencies in the supervision of the fiduciary and safeguards
aspects of the project, the realism of the project performance ratings, and incomplete
solution of issues with respect to resettlement implementation and financial management
at that time.

2.2.3 However, the QSA6 also recognized that following the Mid-term Review (MTR),
the Bank paid more attention to solving these problems by: (i) additionally financing the
4th year periodic maintenance program, taking advantage of a significant cost under-run;
(ii) expediting the implementation of the lagging parts of the institutional development
component; (iii) focusing on the Borrower's finding solutions to the remaining safeguard
issues with respect to land acquisition and resettlement of project-affected families; (v)
splitting the GSHP-9 Phase II package into two, whereby the invited bids were 20 %
below the budget estimate.

2.2.4 These proactive measures taken after the October 2002 MTR improved
implementation and allowed all subsequent implementation issues to be resolved by
project completion.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E Design: The PDO had two parts, (i) "to enhance the capacity of the GOG
for the effective planning and management of road infrastructure", and (ii) "concurrently
maximize existing road infrastructure asset utilization through priority investments and
increased maintenance funding". The first part addresses capacity development, for
which the applicable outcome indicators were "maintenance funding increased by 10%"
and "maintenance backlog reduced by 20%". These were outcome-based indicators, but
not necessarily sufficient to measure the "enhancement of capacity" of the agency. The
second part consisted of two indicators to monitor asset utilization. The "priority
investment" should refer to the physical components of this project, and the "reduced
travel time by 10%" is considered an approximate outcome indicator for this part of the
PDO. The "increased maintenance funding" indicator was directly measured by
"maintenance funding increase" and "maintenance backlog reduction".

2.3.2 M&E Implementation Aspect: The PAD Annex 1 mentioned that the performance
indicators (PI) would be evaluated by the MTR and the ICR. However, the MTR assessed
the quality of performance, making allowances for the delay in the physical works caused
by the earthquake. Three indicators set specific intermediate target dates for
achievements (maintenance backlog reduced by 20% by Dec 2002; 800-900 km of state
highways improved by the end of 2004; and 1,000 km of state roads maintained to 'good'


                                             7

condition by end 2002). But there is no record of these intermediate target dates having
been assessed. During the Bank's December 2003 mission, it was confirmed that the
physical PI targets would be achieved by the end of the project. One might have expected
the MTR, faced with the earthquake `act of God', to have used these intermediate targets
to measure how far the project had been pushed off schedule, and to have recommended
corrective actions to catch up the delays or adjust the final targets. But this was not done.

2.3.3 Making use of M&E findings: The data of the PI values were collected by the
R&BD, and discussed with the Bank team periodically after December 2004. The
monitoring and evaluation of project performance was also assessed by a series of
Performance Assessment and Beneficiary Surveys conducted by the R&BD in November
2005 and December 2007, which confirmed the good performance and road user
satisfaction. Details of these results are summarized in Annex 5.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance is rated satisfactory on account of the following achievements.

2.4.1 The Government was committed to applying the safeguards, and set up an
Environmental Management Unit (EMU) headed by a superintending engineer in the
implementing agency. The PWD leadership designated environmental and social
safeguard staff to work with the consultants and contractors. This helped in defining
organized measures in discussion with Bank missions, enforcement and follow-up on the
pending issues throughout the project period. This practice is highly commendable and
should be an exemplary model to be replicated in other state highway projects in India.

2.4.2 Environmental aspects: The environmental and forestry clearances of Phase I, IIA
and IIB were applied, discussed and followed up with the authorities, and obtained in time.
During the preparation stage, the issue of the project's potential impacts on the Wild Ass
Sanctuary was well managed, and the relevant authorities have shown satisfaction and
supported the level of consultation and proposed mitigation measures included in the
project design. This coordination and collaboration continued through the project period, a
highly commendable arrangement. Environmental enhancement measures were completed
to protect wild animals living near the project sites, and required forestation works were
completed. The borrow area restoration, site clearances including debris, vegetation,
dismantling of diversions, safe disposal of scarified bituminous surfaces, and restoration of
demobilized labor camps were all successfully implemented. Thus, implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was rated satisfactory through the project period.

2.4.3 Social Aspects: The land area finally acquired for the project (53 hectares) was
smaller than what had been identified at the time of appraisal (65 hectares). Similarly,
28% fewer households were affected than had been anticipated at appraisal (891
households against 1,253). The lower impacts are due to the efforts made by the
implementing agency to explore alternative options to minimize the impacts through
adjustments in the alignments and reducing the corridor of impact width wherever
possible. The total land acquisition and resettlement costs are only 2.0% of the project
cost ($8.43 million against the total project cost of about $408 million).




                                              8

2.4.4 Nevertheless, implementation of the land acquisition and resettlement action plan
(RAP) experienced some delays. The MTR and the subsequent Bank missions noted
repeated warnings, and the social safeguard aspect was rated unsatisfactory during a few
missions in 2003-04. These were mainly: (a) delay in the payment of 'top-up' money (the
difference between replacement cost and compensation paid under the land acquisition
act) for Phase I roads; (b) delay in providing permanent resettlement to the displaced
households in Phase IIA roads; and (c) delay in completion of the balance of private land
acquisition in Phase IIA and B roads. Particularly the delay in the top-up money payment
had taken more than two years since 2002, which was mainly due to difficulties in
coming up with a set of objective criteria to arrive at appropriate and agreed replacement
cost for lost assets. During this time these issues caused QSA6 in August 2004 to judge
the overall quality of supervision in FY03-04 as moderately satisfactory, and flagged this
as a significant safeguard problem in the project. These delays in top-up payments,
resettlement, the remaining land acquisition were due to the fact that the GOG was not
fully used to these safeguard policies of the Bank, and the practical standard for these
payments conforming with the Bank's guidelines had not yet been established. It was
however fully completed by December 2004, by which time more than 40 consultation
meetings had been held with all the stakeholders, led by the R&BD/EMU.

2.4.5 The R&BD, in consultation with the Bank, has made a resettlement impact
assessment study of the project. It confirmed that the project has not caused any
significant adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the project-affected people. Instead, the
study shows that the economic conditions of the PAPs have been improved. It also
showed that the training offered to the poor and vulnerable people had strong positive
impacts.

Fiduciary compliance is rated satisfactory on account of the following achievements:

2.4.6 Financial Management: Having successfully completed implementation of the
Rural Roads Project, the R&BD was familiar with the Bank's financial reporting,
accounting and auditing requirements when the GSHP was launched. To improve the
financial management system, the project aimed to implement a computerized Project
Financial Management System (PFMS) capable of providing timely and reliable
information to monitor progress in achieving the PDOs. The system was intended to
reflect component and category-wise expenditures, provide costing information, and
produce financial reports showing up-to-date actual versus budgeted expenditures for the
current period and to date. The PFMS was also intended to capture procurement-related
information, so that the procurement limits were properly followed, and up-to-date
contractual costing information was made available. The project financial management
statements compiled by the PFMS were audited annually by an independent auditor.

2.4.7 The PFMS was installed and operated at the early stage of the project, but it
experienced several months lag in data entry, and the planned format of the reports had a
different base than the reports used for annual and macro-level planning. It was highly
dependent on consultants for data inputs and system operations in the initial period.
These issues, however, were gradually resolved by implementing most of the required
software revisions, by having the PFMS installed at division offices and the central office,



                                             9

and by repeated training for accounts staff. The financial data entered into the system
were reconciled with the project expenditures by the end of 2004, and started to generate
the required financial information. The system-generated reports were internalized, and
the data inputs into the system were managed by the financial personnel, and the financial
management arrangements were continuously satisfactory from mid-2005 until the loan
was closed. This is seen as an important institutional strengthening achievement in the
fiduciary aspects.

2.4.8 Procurement: Procurement of works, goods and equipment, consulting services
and training components was carried out in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The
widening and strengthening civil works were procured through international competitive
bidding and implemented in three phases, with the majority of contracts in packages of
$10-40 million. The bidders for these civil works were pre-qualified in accordance with
the Bank guidelines. The periodic maintenance civil works were procured through
national competitive bidding in packages of $1-5 million. Throughout the project the
R&BD performed its procurement role efficiently and proved proficient in preparing
tenders, evaluating bids and awarding contracts.

2.4.9 Disbursement: The total estimated project cost was revised downwards from $533
million as estimated in the PAD to about $408 million. Accordingly the loan amount was
reduced from the initial $381 million to $280 million, and $101 million was cancelled.
The lower-than-expected total cost of the project is mostly attributable to: (a) lower than
expected civil works costs; and (b) depreciation of the Indian Rupee against the US dollar
during the early part of project implementation

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The completion of the 1,839 km of project roads has provided major
improvements not only in physical road assets, but also the institutional capacity of the
R&BD to manage the post-completion operation of the project investments. The annual
10% increase in road maintenance budget is providing adequate funding to ensure
effective operation after the project. The implemented Institutional Strengthening Action
Plan has given the R&BD managers the skills needed for (i) developing and
communicating long-term strategy, (ii) leading the organizational change management
process to become a modern road agency, (iii) facilitating public/private partnerships, (iv)
performing better road financing and maintenance, (v) managing sustainable modernized
human resource development, and (vi) delivering enhanced project and financial
management outputs. It also made the Gujarat Road Management System (GRMS) fully
operational, providing state-of-the-art outputs on road condition and maintenance matters
for the State's core road network, including the preparation of new project plans,
evaluating the status quo and setting out a clear rationale for change.

2.5.2 Thanks to these achievements, the Government of Gujarat is now planning a
number of projects with their own funds and PPP: (1) pilot comprehensive corridor-based
road safety improvement, for which the design is ready; (2) pilot performance-based
maintenance contracts, for which the design is under way; (3) a new Strategic Options
Study for future improvement and maintenance over the next 20 years, which was done
prior to the completion of this project; (4) PPP for about 3,000 km roads; and (5) further


                                             10

reorganization of the R&BD to focus more on state road planning, management and
maintenance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Relevance of PDOs. The PDO remains highly relevant to both the GOI's Tenth
Five- Year Plan (2002-2007) and to the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy for
India for 2005-2008, and was well designed to meet the relevant outcomes envisaged in
both documents. Improvements in infrastructure, including improving the quality and
productivity of the transport network, have been important to achieve the key
components of the Tenth Plan's and the CAS's goals for rapid economic growth and
poverty reduction.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The achievement of the PDO is rated highly satisfactory. All of the targets for
the physical components and the institutional strengthening program have been fully
achieved. The latter has considerably enhanced the State government's capacity for
effective and efficient road infrastructure planning and management. The `learning by
doing' of implementing a large externally-aided project and exposure to international
practices has also been beneficial. Utilization of the existing road infrastructure assets has
been maximized by the priority investments under the project's physical components and
by the increased maintenance funding designated as one of the key performance
indicators. Following are discussions on the results for each PDO indicator.

(A) To enhance the capacity of the Government of Gujarat for effective and efficient
planning and management of road infrastructure (fully achieved).

3.2.2 The capacity of the GOG was considerably enhanced by implementation of the
R&BD's organizational reform actions, facilitated by the Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan. The GOG's `road asset management' and `governance' capacities have been
substantially improved through the Policy and Planning initiative, with input from the
project design. The Policy & Planning Unit (PPU) set up in the R&BD has been able to
successfully prepare the 2007 and 2008 budget plans for the department by using the
computer-based GRMS, which is quite a noteworthy achievement for effective and
efficient road planning and management, compared to the past practice by which all the
budget plans were prepared manually, with lack of data support or thorough analysis. The
Social and Environment Management Policy and Guidance, a state-wide sector policy
prepared under the project, is now applied to all investment projects undertaken by the
R&BD.

3.2.3 As a result, the four key performance indicators show good achievements. The
expected increase in average car/truck/bus speed from 50 km/h to 60 km/h on the roads
supported by the project has been achieved, which means the reduction of travel time by
16 % (PDO Indicator 12). The maintenance funding for the road network has been


2The reference numbers of the performance indicators in this text are in accordance with the data sheet.



                                                                11

increased by 10 % in real terms per annum over the life of the project from FY2000/01
until the end of the project (PDO Indicator 2). The ERR for the whole works component,
estimated at appraisal at 44%, is estimated now, after the works are completed and the
traffic has responded, at 57% (PDO Indicator 3: see Annex 3 for details).             The
maintenance backlog has been reduced from 10,000 km at the baseline to 5,000 km, a
50% decrease, including 1,900 km reduction contributed by the project (PDO Indicator 4).
All these indicators have met their intended targets. The share of administrative cost in
the capital/maintenance budget was reduced from 30% (baseline value) to 15.7 % (end-
of-project value), which was more than the intended 10 percentage point reduction
(Intermediate Outcome Indicator 5). The transfer of technical knowledge and skills from
the PCC and Supervision Engineer consulting services, plus all of the ISAP achievements,
have clearly contributed to the enhancement of the GOG's capacity for planning and
management of road infrastructure (IO Indicator 3). The intended target for more than
500 R&BD staff to receive training has been surpassed three-fold, with over 1,500 staff
trained in the project's designated training scheme (IO Indicator 4). The establishment of
a functioning, sustainable Chief Engineer-led Human Resource Development/Training
College puts Gujarat well ahead of other states in India in this field. From these notable
accomplishments and indicator values, it is concluded that this PDO is fully achieved.

(B) To maximize existing road infrastructure asset utilization through priority
investments and increased funding for maintenance (fully achieved).

3.2.4 The priority investments for the road infrastructure asset base have been chosen
through the 'whole-of-network' approach of monitoring and planning, and progressive
integration of the budgeting and funding processes for different road categories with the
institutional strengthening. The increased maintenance funding is confirmed by the key
outcome/impact performance indicators. The achieved 10% annual increase in
maintenance funding (PDO Indicator 2) and the halving of the maintenance backlog
(PDO Indicator 4) directly endorse the achievement of this PDO. The other output
indicators also support this result. The IRI measurements on the improved state highways
show that their roughness has been kept good (less than 4.0 m/km), and the intended
improvement length of 800 - 900 km (target of 873 km) was achieved by the final
improved length of 871 km. The intended maintenance length of about 1,000 km (target
of 972 km) was fully achieved. All of these results endorse the much improved utilization
of road infrastructure assets in the state, and it is concluded that this PDO is fully
achieved.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 Efficiency in achieving the project objectives in terms of net present value/
economic rate of return is highly satisfactory.

3.3.2 The ICR economic analysis has followed the PAD methodology and used similar
assumptions. The ERRs and NPVs were estimated at appraisal and completion for the
first two components (Component 1: Widening and Strengthening, and Component 2:
Maintenance). Since the benefits of the institutional strengthening component are
difficult to quantify, they were not included in the economic evaluation of the project at
either appraisal or completion. However, both the environmental mitigation measures and


                                             12

relocation and resettlement costs were fully incorporated in the calculation of the ERRs at
appraisal and completion for the Widening and Strengthening component. Details of the
economic analyses are given in Annex 3 and a summary is given in Table 3.1.

3.3.3 The combined ERR for the two components was estimated at appraisal at 44%,
with a NPV of $838 million (equivalent to $1,066 at 2007 prices), while the revised ERR
at the completion of the project was 57%, with a NPV of $1,107 million. This was due to
the substantial increase in benefits and cost reduction in the Widening and Strengthening
component.

 Table 3.1: Comparison of Cost Benefits of GSHP - PAD vs. Implementation Comparison
                                                                              (All figures of cost-benefit in US$ million)
                                Project Appraisal Stage                      Implementation Completion Stage

 Components                         at 1997-98 prices                                  at 2007-08 prices

                      Benefits        Costs         Net                                              Net
                                                 Benefits       ERR        Benefits Costs          Benefits       ERR

Widening and                 691         245            446
Strengthening              (879)       (312)         (567)        33%           886        221           665       44%

Road                         417           25           392
Maintenance                (530)        (32)         (499)      100%            494          52          442      102%

Overall                    1,108         270            838
                        (1,409)        (343)      (1,066)        44%          1,380        273        1,107        57%

Note: 1. Exchange rate: $1 = INR40.0
      2. The values in ( ) for the project appraisal stage are adjusted to 2007 prices.

Cost Reduction

3.3.4 The project achieved a significant cost reduction. The overall reduction is
confirmed by comparing per-km project cost at appraisal with that at completion, as
shown in Table 3.2.

     Table 3.2: Unit Construction Cost Comparison between Appraisal and Completion

                                            Total Cost            Total Cost                             Unit Cost
              Item                          ($ million,           ($ million,          Length            ($000/km,
                                         1997-98 prices)       2007-08 prices)          (km)         2007-08 prices)
 Project Road Works Costs at Appraisal
   Widening and Strengthening                  $348.8                $443.7              886 km               $501
       Road Maintenance                         $55.2                 $70.2              857 km                $82
              Total                            $404.0                $513.9            1,743 km                 ---
 Road Works Costs at Implementation Completion
   Widening and Strengthening                   ---                  $330.0              871 km               $379
       Road Maintenance                         ---                   $66.6              969 km                $69
              Total                             ---                  $396.6            1,839 km                 ---


This cost reduction was effected by a combination of several factors; a highly
competitive market of contractors, favorable exchange rate fluctuations, the GOG's
commitment to reducing costs, and the R&BD's tight management of contracts, as well
as effective oversight by the Finance Department. (See Annex 3 for more details.)



                                                           13

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

3.4.1 The overall outcome is rated highly satisfactory, given the high relevance and
efficiency of the project and achievement of the project development objectives.

3.4.2 The PDO was successfully achieved. All targets in the key performance indicators
were either met or exceeded with proven efficiency. The institutional impact was
substantial measured by increase in efficiency and effectiveness in road network
management, including strengthened safeguards and fiduciary policies and practices. The
project was also financially efficient, as a result of combined factors including the GOG's
efforts to make efficient use of funds.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Implementation of the RAP has had a number of positive impacts on the project-
affected persons, summarized below. More details are provided in Annex 5: Beneficiary
Survey Results.

o Availability of cash for daily needs and business investment. Around 50% of PAPs
    used the paid compensation to meet their daily consumption needs and 38% invested
    in their business. The increased availability of cash has resulted in increases in
    ownership of such assets as vehicles, cooking gas, TVs, refrigerators, tape recorders
    and radios.

o Improved living conditions. 15 families who lost their houses to the project were
    provided with alternative, improved housing. Their new houses have better conditions,
    larger size and more facilities. The average size of their houses has increased from 8-
    15 sq.m to 20-35 sq.m. The houses also have electricity and separate rooms for bath
    and toilets.

o Increase in household income: By completion of the project, more people in the
    project areas started making more money. The percentage of project affected
    households with monthly income of less than INR2,000 has reduced from 52% as
    reported in the 1999 Baseline Survey to 30% as reported in the 2007 Final Impact
    Assessment Survey. Meanwhile, a sizable increase is noted in the other income
    groups, namely from 16% to 23% in the income group of INR3,001-5,000 and from
    13% to 26% in the income group of above INR 5,000.

o Growth of employment rate. The number of households with only one earning
    member has shrunk from 72.4% to 53.3% in the case of PAPs, against 61.5% in the
    control group; whereas the number of families with two or more earning members has
    increased from 17.5% to 29.4% in the case of the PAPs and 20.2% in the control
    group.

o Change in the occupational profile. The employment rate has increased from 26% in
    the base line survey to 33% for PAPs and 31% for the control group. But most of this
    increase has come from labor work. The percentage of earners depending upon
    agriculture and other labor has increased from 43% in the base line to 58%. This
    percentage among PAPs is even higher compared to the control group. The share of



                                              14

    the self-employed has reduced from 45% to 33% in the case of both PAPs and the
    control group.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The R&BD's organizational reform actions were facilitated by the Institutional
Strengthening Action Plan, which included reduction of staff to essential levels,
preparation of annual performance reports, and the setting up of the Policy & Planning
(P&P) Unit and the Highway Design Unit (HDU), as well as the Environmental
Management Unit for more effective compliance with safeguards, both environmental
and social. The project-supported ISAP also included progressive computerization of the
R&BD, appointment of a law officer to the R&BD, establishment of a functioning human
resource development system and a comprehensive staff training policy and program.
The R&BD has also established the Project Financial Management System to strengthen
its financial management capabilities. In parallel, as part of the Project the GOG took
early action to set up the Gujarat Infrastructure Development Board (GIDB) to streamline
clearance of infrastructure projects, as well as the Gujarat Roads Development
Corporation (GRDC) and various special-purpose toll road development and
management bodies separate from the previous R&BD-centered approach to roads
management.

3.5.3 The institutional strengthening was also supported by the Project Coordinating
Consultant (PCC). These highly qualified and experienced international consultants were
involved in all aspects of project preparation and implementation from the start to the end
of the project. Their function was to provide expert advice to the R&BD, particularly in
the field of procurement and initial management and administration of consultants and
civil works contracts. The PCC has transferred selected areas of knowledge and skills to
R&BD and to local consultants' staff through on-the-job and formal training. The PCC
supported the R&BD's training of 1,500 personnel, which was far more than the target
value in the performance indicator, and their results and feedback were quite positive.
The function of the PCC was in a way `behind the scenes' in the implementation, but its
role was quite substantive.

3.5.4 The implementation of ISAP in the Gujarat R&BD, including the launch of the
policy and planning function, was fully supported by the GOG, and it was a major
innovation in the PWD context in India. This has resulted in (among other things): (i)
significant organizational and responsibility adjustments in R&BD's structure; (ii)
embrace of a `whole-of-network' approach to monitoring and planning for roads
development and maintenance; (iii) progressive integration of the budgeting and funding
processes for different road categories in the state, previously managed separately; (iv)
initiation of systematic road condition data collection and IT-based tools for maintenance
planning and programming, as well as other agency-wide decision-support and MIS
tools; (v) successful environmental and social safeguard compliance, thanks to the well-
functioning Environmental Management Unit; (vi) enhancement of the R&BD's financial
management capabilities with the operational PFMS; and (vii) R&BD's governance
initiatives such as cyclical business planning, performance evaluation and annual
reporting, which is in place and on-going. The GIDB and GRDC have established a broad



                                             15

and increasingly successful state-level base for private sector participation in road
infrastructure. In effect, modern `road asset management' and `governance' capacities
have been created largely through the P&P initiative.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5 Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
3.6.1 The beneficiary survey3 revealed that the periodic maintenance component had
delivered the following benefits to the beneficiaries: comfortable driving conditions,
higher speed, reduction in travel time and costs, growth of vehicle ownership, and
increased availability of commercial vehicles to transport products to market. The
respondents reported a wide range of impacts, including (i) in the agriculture sector:
increased use of mechanized equipment for cultivation, easier transportation of fertilizer,
seeds and pesticides, increase in the profitability of agricultural produce, more trips and
more profitable production; (ii) in the industry and commerce: easier access to raw
materials, increase in the profitability of industrial and commercial establishments; (iii) in
the health sector: improved access to preventive and health care facilities, better
management of infectious diseases and attending emergencies, better health care of
people; (iv) in the education sectors: improved access to education facilities, increased
enrollment and attendance in school, and regular attendance of teachers. The stakeholder
workshop was not conducted for reasons on the Borrower's side.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

4.1     The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is low, as
providing adequate maintenance funding and proper maintenance of the improved roads
is well established and policy reversal in maintenance funding is unlikely. Credit for
these results goes to the GOG's strong ownership of the project and the management of
the implementing agency. As long as such leadership continues, the results will be
sustained. The technical capacity has increased by the large-scale implementation of this
project, and the R&BD intends to carry out performance-based road contracts on a pilot
basis in a future project, a widely recognized technical innovation in the sector. The
environmental and social management capacity has been created by the EMU's effective
project monitoring, and its benefit is recognized as an institutional memory as a legacy of
GSHP. Implementation of the earthquake emergency road rehabilitation has provided a
strong management capability against natural disaster exposure.

4.2     The positive element of the strengthened institutional reforms, however, needs to
be monitored for its longer-term impacts. It is often the case that such institutional
achievements become diluted over time after the closing of the project and the end of
external support. From that viewpoint, it is highly recommended that the Bank stay



3GSHP Performance Assessment and Beneficiary Survey; R&BD; November 2005 & December 2007




                                                   16

engaged in the follow-up operation with the GOG, in a more strategic and sector-wide
approach, to help the GOG achieve sustainability in the institutional change.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank's performance at the identification and preparation stages contributed to
the GOG's proactive project preparation activities at entry. Since this project was the
Bank's first major highway sector project in Gujarat (following the rural road project), the
task team conducted careful and thorough review of the preparations. The project design
applied the lessons from other states of India and other countries in the region, and made
a detailed review for the engineering aspects of the physical components, environmental
and social factors, and financial management aspects. This careful preparation
contributed to the successful implementation and avoided cost overruns.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank missions consisted of a multi-disciplinary implementation support team
with a good skill mix. This ensured identification of key project implementation issues
and timely discussion during supervision missions. The task team responded proactively
with good communication to the implementing agency in identifying problems that
hindered project implementation and in recommending solutions, ensuring that the
Subborrower remained alert to the obligations as the employer of the contracts. Many
Bank team members worked on the project throughout its implementation. This was one
of the success factors, as they were fully aware of the project history and the capacity of
the implementing agency, allowing them to provide quick and appropriate advice.

 5.1.3 The QSA6 conducted in August 2004 rated the quality of supervision as
 moderately satisfactory, reflecting deficiencies in the early stages of supervision of the
 fiduciary and safeguards aspects. The social aspects had been rated moderately
 unsatisfactory, with all other aspects (procurement, financial management, legal and
 environmental) being satisfactory. The "MU" rating of the social aspects reflected
 persistent problems of compliance with the RAP since May 2004. After the QSA6
 assessment, the team quickly enhanced its support to solve this problem, and the social
 safeguard compliance was achieved by December 2004, thanks to repeated consultation
 meetings with the stakeholders and support from the Bank team (see paragraph 2.4.3).
 The ICR rates safeguard aspects satisfactory, as these follow-up actions led to the final
 safeguard compliance. It is important to note that the project stayed on track and did not
 require restructuring despite the two-year suspension by the nuclear sanctions and the
 devastating earthquake in 2001.




                                            17

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory, considering the above
assessment with outcome ratings given in Section 3.4.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.2.1 The GOG showed a high degree of commitment and ownership toward the project
design, preparation and implementation through a number of actions. These included: (i)
full endorsement of the model Project Identification and Preparation Framework; (ii)
preparation and submission to the Central Government of a "Road Sector Policy Letter"
outlining the State's commitment to improve both management and funding of the road
sector, (iii) spending substantial resources ($7 million) under the Technical Assistance
loan on the project preparation without any assurance that the project would go ahead;
(iv) funding the pre-feasibility study focusing on the investment needs of the core SH
network in 1994 and the preparation of the Strategic Options Study to identify roads for
improvement; (v) maintaining an unusually high degree of continuity in its project
management team; (vi) ensuring ready high-level involvement of the R&BD executive
and senior GOG officials above the project management team throughout the project; and
(vii) sustaining a high degree of readiness and commitment and starting implementation
of certain project components prior to the project launch, regardless of the two-year delay
in loan negotiations and approval.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.2.2 The implementing agency - the Roads & Building Department (R&BD) - has
managed the project in a sound professional manner. The proactive arrangements during
project preparation, including the timely preparation of studies and designs, the
environmental and forest clearances, and consultation with relevant agencies for the Wild
Ass Sanctuary, were exemplary. Their commitment to the control of environmental and
social issues through successful establishment of the EMU was a well managed project-
level institutional arrangement, which could be replicated in other projects. The delays in
implementation of land acquisition and the resettlement action plan, raised by QSA6
during the mid-term review, had been satisfactorily resolved by December 2004, and in
the broader perspective the outcome has been fully complied with the Bank's guidelines.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.3 The overall performance of the Borrower is rated highly satisfactory, considering
the above assessment with the outcome rating given in Section 3.4.




                                            18

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 Contract Management Aspects

6.1.1 Careful design and cost review at the pre-bidding stage will lead to lower costs
of the works. The contract price is a result of competition in the bidding, but the
robustness of its design will attract more bidders. Contractors see risks in bidding on a
poorly designed project and will raise their prices to cover the risk, whereas a well
designed project avoids such risk premiums.

6.1.2 Agency's strong commitment will also lead to cost reductions. When the bids for
contract GSHP-9 Phase II came in above the engineer's estimate, R&BD made a big
effort to have the works re-bid. The Bank team was initially reluctant to agree, but
eventually provided no objection for re-bidding the contracts. This sent out a powerful
message to all interested bidders that R&BD would not tolerate bids above the engineer's
estimate. As a result, the re-bid contract was awarded at a price 20% below the estimate.
Also, R&BD was required to submit justification for planned expenses to the Finance
Department, which closely controls spending to ensure the efficient use of money.

6.1.3 Strong contract management by the Employer is indispensable to minimize
delay and keep implementation within the contractually stipulated time frame. The role
of the supervision consultant is important for schedule control, but it should be
remembered that supervision consultants are mostly paid by time-based contracts, and
generally do not have a strong incentive to minimize works delays.

6.1.4 A good management consultant supporting the overall function of the
Employer will help the Employer to enhance his contract management and capacity
building. The role of the Project Coordinating Consultant was pretty much shadowed in
the project, but its support to the Employer was one of the hidden factors behind the
successful implementation. Though its size and magnitude will depend on the capacity of
the implementing agency, this arrangement is quite useful for supporting the Employer.

6.2 Safeguard Management Aspects

6.2.1 The success of the Environmental Management Unit was due to strong
consultant's guidance in the preparation stage and repeated training programs during
implementation. The well-functioning EMU was one of the most positive outcomes of
the project. It can take credit for several notable successes: (i) the environmental and
social management of the construction site for mitigation of potential impacts to the Wild
Ass Sanctuary in collaboration with environmental NGOs, (ii) managing the disposal of
hazardous materials, (iii) well-consulted recovery of roadside community facilities,
including community plazas and water supply systems, and (iv) the final resolution of
compensation issues through repeated community consultations. The EMU owes its
success to the careful institutional support with initial guidance by the PCC and repeated
training programs. The strategic creation of new organizational units needs such careful
institutional support to manage the change process.

6.2.2 Repeated consultation is likely to bring about stakeholder satisfaction and
contribute to the project success. The repeated stakeholder consultation achieved a


                                             19

number of satisfactory roadside arrangements, as mentioned in the previous paragraph.
The final satisfactory implementation of the RAP and land acquisition was also a result of
repeated   stakeholder    consultations.   This   experience   reaffirms    that  repeated
communication is vital for better understanding among the stakeholders and the
implementing agency.

6.3 Project Management

6.3.1 A principal rule for success of a project is that strong continued leadership and
commitment of the implementing agency's top management is a key factor. The highly
motivated implementing agency and the Bank team who worked on this project show that
their performance was largely inspired by strong commitment and leadership of the
implementing agency's top management. The GSHP experience shows that this
leadership preserved the sense of ownership and commitment of the agency, staying in
focus on the objectives, and it avoided possible restructuring, even when factors beyond
the control of the implementing agency and the government interfered.

6.3.2 Continuity of the implementing agency and the Bank teams is a positive
contributing factor to successful implementation of the project. The GOG maintained a
quite high degree of continuity in its project management team, which ensured a high
degree of readiness at the start and stronger ownership. The Bank team also kept many of
the team members throughout preparation and implementation. These have enhanced the
long-term relationship for cooperation and enabled them to react quickly to unforeseen
events, leading to better management of the project.

6.3.3 Supervision of periodic maintenance by the implementing agency is a good
hands-on technical capacity building opportunity to enhance its role as the owner of
the network. When the project started, the implementing agency did not have high
technical capacity for construction supervision. The supervision of more complicated
works under the widening and strengthening component was contracted out to the
supervision consultant, while the R&BD gradually enhanced its capacity through
engagement in the periodic maintenance supervision. This practice also enabled R&BD
to gain confidence, and led to better control and stronger ownership of the road network.

6.3.4 Road safety measures need to get a stronger focus upfront with firmer
conditionality in order to achieve substantive results. Road safety was a relatively small
element in this project. It was treated as a sub-component of the institutional
strengthening program, and the project design did not explicitly require the GOG
interventions. Hence there was little momentum and ownership in higher GOG levels for
road safety policy, strategy, capacity-building and/or education/information measures
during the project. The Road Safety Council was established early in the project period
but thereafter was inactive, and it was beyond the R&BD's ability to influence. The
project-funded road safety audit and improvement study undertaken during 2005-2006
was comprehensive, and presented viable and realistic interventions, but only the
physical road safety improvement measures within the R&BD domain were taken up.




                                             20

6.4 Monitoring and Evaluation Aspects

6.4.1 Performance indicators for measuring the outcome of institutional capacity
enhancement need careful attention to capture the essence. Positive results were
observed in the institutional strengthening component, but its outcome indicator did not
capture them well. How best to measure such results needs to be considered holistically
at the design stage.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
2.4     Safeguard & Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.3 Nevertheless implementation of land acquisition and resettlement action plan
        (RAP) experienced some delays. The MTR and the subsequent Bank missions
        noted repeated warnings and the social safeguard aspect was rated unsatisfactory
        during a few missions in 2003-04. These were mainly (a) delay in payment of
        "top-up" money (the difference between replacement cost and compensation paid
        under the land acquisition act) for Phase I roads (b) delay in providing permanent
        resettlement of the displaced house hold in Phase II A roads and (c) delay in
        completion of the balance of private land acquisition in Phase IIA and B roads.
        Particularly the delay in the top up money payment had taken more than two years
        since 2002. Which was mainly due to difficulties in coming up with a set of
        objective criteria to arrive at appropriate and agreed replacement cost for lost
        assets. During this time these issues caused QSA in August 2004 to judge the over
        all quality of supervision in Financial Year 2003-04 as moderately satisfactory
        and flagged this as a significant safeguard problem in the project. These delays in
        top-up payment, resettlement and the remaining land acquisition were due to the
        fact that the GoG was not fully used to these safeguard policies of the Bank and
        the practical standard for theses payments conforming with Bank's guidelines was
        not yet established. It was however fully completed by December 2004, by which
        time more than 40 consultation meetings had been held with all the stakeholders
        led by the R&BD/EMU.

R&BD's Views on Section 2.4.4 ­ Delay in Land Acquisition
R&BD was not solely responsible for the delays in Land Acquisitions carried out during
the project stage. Some of the reasons for delays in payment of "top up" money,
providing permanent resettlement of displaced household and completion of balance of
private land acquisition in Phase II A and II B roads were as follows:
  (a)   Actually delay in payment of "top-up money" is not due to the implementing
        agency i.e. R&BD but was due to GoG's Revenue Department. The collectors' of
        all concerned districts were not willing to revise the "LAQ Award". Once they
        decided under LAQ act 1894. But after so many efforts by R&BD as well as
        intervention of Bank's mission and their meeting with Principal Secretary of
        Revenue Department and pushing the issue to decide "Top up money" in video
        conference with district collectors and principal secretary and Revenue
        Department and R&BD EMU Officials it became possible to revise the "LAQ




                                             21

        Award" which took 2 years of time. The difference between original award
        amount and revised award amount is then paid up as top up money.
 (b)    Delay in providing permanent resettlement of the displaced house holds in Phase
        IIA again due to other line department i.e. Gujarat Rural Housing Board" as they
        were unable to provide house in time under "Sardar Awas Yojana" due to their
        constraints, though R&BD had already deposited amount asked by them well in
        advance. It is also to note that the displaced house holds were residing in the
        rental house until the permanent house was provided to them and rental amount
        was given by R&BD as per R&R Guidelines and entitlement matrix in guidelines.

Delay in completion of balance of private land acquisition in Phase IIA and B roads was
mainly due to non-availability and insufficient staff of concerned district Revenue offices
and some documents to be collected from them who has to do joint measurement and
other following activities up to award stage. R&BD had provided them the other required
logistic facilities.

(b) Co-financiers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable.




                                            22

                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in $ million equivalent)

              Components                 Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                             ($ million)       Estimate ($ million)  Appraisal

  1  Widening & Strengthening of
     800-900 km of State hwys                    343.00               304.40         -11.3%

  2 Land Acquisition and R&R                       1.70                  8.43        395.9%

  3  Maintenance of about 1,000
     km of State highways                         56.20                59.21            5.4%

  4 Design and Supervision                        26.50                30.87           16.5%

  5  Institutional Strengthening,
     Training, TA and Equipment                   10.50                  5.05        -51.9%

  6 Pre-investment Studies                         3.30                  0.38        -88.5%
               Total Baseline Cost               441.20               408.34           -7.5%
 Physical Contingencies*                          33.10                - *              -
 Price Contingencies*                             58.70                - *              -
                Total Project Costs              533.00               408.34         -23.4%
 Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                  0.00           -
 Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                  0.00           -
       Total Financing Required                  533.00               408.34         -23.4%
*Physical and price contingencies are included in Components 1 & 3



(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal     Actual/Latest
       Source of Funds            Type of                                       Percentage of
                               Cofinancing         Estimate        Estimate
                                                  ($ million)     ($ million)     Appraisal

    Borrower                        29%             152.00          118.42         -22.1%
    IBRD                            71%             381.00          280.00         -26.5%




                                                   23

                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The project consisted of the following components:

Component 1: Widening and Strengthening of State Highways (actual cost of $304.4
million against estimated total cost of $348.8 million). This component aimed to
increase the carrying capacity and structural strength of part of the core State road
network, through the widening and strengthening of 870.8 km (against the planned 800-
900 km) of high priority state highways.

            Table A2-1. Breakdown of Contract Packages under Component 1

                                                 At Appraisal                             At Completion
Contract                             Planned         Estimated Base Cost      Completed              Actual
  No.              Section            Length                                    Length                      Rs.
                                       (km)         $ million     Rs. million    (km)        $ million    million*
GSHP-1     Sarkhej - Viramgam            47.6           21.4          850          47.5         19.9        897
GSHP-2     Mehsana-Palanpur              63.1           20.5          814          56.4          20.9       939
GSHP-3     Rajkot-Jamnagar               61.1           25.3       1,005           61.6         23.8      1,069
GSHP-4     Kadodara-Bajipura             36.5           14.1          560          36.3          12.5       561
GSHP-5     Halol - Godhra                38.0           16.7          663          38.0          14.0       632
GSHP-6     Mehsana-Palanpur              59.6           38.7       1,537           55.4         29.5      1,328
GSHP-7     Shamlaji-Godhra              121.5           44         1,747          121.5          38.0     1,709
           Ladvel-Dakor-
GSHP-8     Godhra                        63.5           27.7       1,100           63.7         18.7        842
           Vadodara-Jambusar
GSHP-9     Bharuch-Dahej                 94             37.5       1,489           92.8         25.5      1,149
           Jetpur-Junagadh
GSHP-10    Rajkot-Morvi                  93.1           33.8       1,342           68.44        22.0        992
           Jamnagar-Khambalia
GSHP-11    Jamnagar-Dhrol                65.7           19            754          64.6          22.5     1,012
           Virangam-
GSHP-12    Dhrangadhara-Halvad           70.8           23.4          929          92.95        29.2      1,316
           Bagodara-Dolka
GSHP-13    Wataman-Pimpri                47.4           18.3          727          47.4         18.7        843
           Surat-Olpad
GSHP-14    Madgella-Navasari             24.5             8.4         334          24.3          9.0        407
                  Total (1)             886.4          348.8      13,851          870.8         304.4    13,696
Note: (1) Total length includes double counting of four-laning of Mehsana-Palanpur Road section.
* (Exchange rate - Rs.45/$1)

Component 2: Land Acquisition and Relocation and Resettlement Expenditures
(actual cost of $8.43 million against estimated cost of $1.70 million). The land
acquisition costs and cash compensation paid under the land acquisition act and
assistance covered under State-sponsored rehabilitation schemes were expected to be
borne by the GOG. Other costs, such as the difference between the compensation paid
under land acquisition act and replacement value of assets acquired (which will be paid in
the form of assistance), infrastructure facilities and resettlement sites, R&R entitlements




4 Jetpur-Junagadh of GSHP-10 with length (24.25 km) is converted to NH-8D.
5 Viramgam-Dhrangdhra-Halvad an additional length of 22 Km was included in the year 2006



                                                          24

including allowances, training, and monitoring and evaluation expenditures, were
expected to be funded by the World Bank.

Component 3: Periodic Maintenance of State Highways (actual cost of $59.2 million
against estimated cost of $55.2 million). This component helped reduce the periodic
maintenance backlog of the State by funding the overlaying, resealing and minor
rehabilitation of 968.5 km (against the planned 1,000 km) of State highways.

               Table A2-2. Breakdown of the Phased Maintenance Program

                                    At Appraisal                                Actual

               Phase       Total length        Estimated         Total length               Cost
                               (km)             base cost
                                                 ($ 000)              (km)                ($ 000)

                   1           279.6              18,739             253.6                17,352
                   2           284.5              17,748             257.7                16,373
                   3           292.4              18,727             244.0                14,642
                   4              -                 -                213.26               10,843
               Total           856.5              55,214             968.5                59,210
                * (Exchange rate - Rs.45 = $1)

Component 4: Design and Supervision of Civil Works Contracts (actual cost of $30.9
million against estimated cost of $26.5 million). Internationally experienced supervision
consultants were procured to supervise the project's widening and strengthening
component and had full responsibility as the "Engineer" on site as per FIDIC conditions.
Experienced consultants were also used for preparation of bid documents and oversight
of periodic maintenance works.

Component 5: Institutional Strengthening, Technical Assistance, Training and
Equipment (actual cost of $5.1 million against estimated cost of S$10.5 million). This
component financed consultant services and TA required to implement the institutional
strengthening action plans designed to strengthen the R&BD's role as the "manager" of
Gujarat's road network. The training needs envisaged under the Project focused on the
planning and management of the State road network, with particular emphasis on
procurement, construction and maintenance management of the existing network.
Equipment was procured under this component for R&BD office & laboratory
modernization and road management systems. Equipment to monitor pollution and noise
emissions along main arterial routes was also procured.

Component 6: Pre-investment Studies (actual cost of $0.38 million against estimated
total cost of $3.3 million). This component funded the techno-economic feasibility and
detailed engineering studies required for a possible follow-on project.




6A fourth year of road maintenance, covering 213.2 km, was included as a result of savings from the Widening &
Strengthening and Road Maintenance works



                                                       25

                            Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Physical Components of the Project
The project has two civil works components: first, Widening and Strengthening, and
second Major Maintenance of identified road corridors. During the feasibility stage
corridors to be taken up for improvement were identified with the aid of the Project
Coordinating Consultants (PCC). The project as envisaged at the feasibility stage and the
actually improved corridors, is described briefly as follows:

Project at Appraisal
Widening and Strengthening Component: A total length of 886.4 km of corridors was
envisaged to be taken up for widening and strengthening. The civil works contracts were
planned to be carried out in three phases, with an estimated cost of INR13,851 million
($348.8 million) [at 1997-98 prices]. The implementation period was 48 months.
Road Maintenance Component: A total length of 856.5 km of State Highways was
envisaged for maintenance. These road works were to be phased over three years from
1999 to 2001, as RMC-1, 2 & 3 respectively. The then estimated cost was INR2,193
million ($55.2 million) [at 1997-98 prices].

Implemented Project
In the course of implementation some changes/additions/deletions were made, some of
which are described as follows:

Widening and Strengthening: By and large this component was implemented as
envisaged barring a few changes in packaging and link length. At the time of completion,
870.5 km of roads had received attention, for an investment of INR13,201 million
($330.0 million) [at 2007-08 prices].
Road Maintenance: Some of the links envisaged were not implemented under GSHP, but
were carried out under other schemes. Dhandhuka-Vallabhipur was to be carried out in
the first year and Dholera-Bhavnagar in the third year, but they were interchanged during
the implementation stage. However, cost savings in the two main components allowed an
additional road length of 213.4 km to be included in the fourth year of the maintenance
program, which was completed in 2007. In all 968.5 km were covered in the four years,
with a completion cost of INR2,664.5 million ($66.61 million) [at 2007-08 prices].

B. Economic Analysis at Project Appraisal
The economic analysis was carried out at appraisal using the dTIMS model. This used
life cycle cost-benefit analysis, comparing the "with-project" and "without-project"
scenarios. The benefits were derived from reduction in the total transport costs7 on the
project roads.
Assumptions for Economic Analysis at Project Appraisal:
   For the purpose of the economic analysis, all financial costs were converted to
   economic prices using a conversion factor of 0.9.




7Total transport costs include vehicle operating cost, time, social-environmental, and maintenance & construction costs.



                                                           26

  Passenger time was valued at 100% of the average wage for employed passengers for
  working trips and at 20% for non-working trips.
  The average crew cost for buses and trucks were INR11,000 and INR13,000 per
  month respectively. From a survey it was found that 30% of cars were driven by paid
  drivers, for whom an average crew cost of INR900 per month was adopted.
  The traffic growth rates used for the initial years were between 4% and 11% for
  different types of vehicles during the period 2000-01, with an average annual growth
  rate of about 8%. The growth rates were forecast to decrease slightly during the period
  2002-07, then stabilize for the remainder of the project life (2008-17). The traffic
  volumes on project roads included in the widening component in the initial year of the
  project's economic life range from 3,200 to 13,000 vehicles per day.
  The cost to society of goods in transit is the opportunity cost of their value, measured
  by the rate of return on capital, taken as 12%. The inventory costs adopted for the
  study were INR 5/hr for articulated trucks, INR 2.5/hr for heavy trucks, and INR
  1.25/hr for light commercial vehicles.
  Road deterioration and maintenance effects were calculated using the RUE Model.

Results: To arrive at the net present value of costs and benefits, they were discounted at
12%. The results are presented in Table A3.1.

              Table A3.1: Results of Economic Analysis at Project Appraisal
                                                                 (in $ million at 1997-98 prices)
  Components                      Benefits       Costs       Net Benefits           ERR

  Widening and Strengthening         691          245            446                 33%
  Road Maintenance                   417           25            392                100%

  Overall                          1,108          270            838                 44%


C. Economic Re-evaluation Scope and Data Input
Scope of Economic Re-evaluation: The same measures were calculated for the post
completion evaluation by comparing the with-project and without-project scenarios.

Inputs: The data required for the analysis is sourced from R&BD's post-completion
surveys and final costs from the field offices. For this purpose the following details have
been compiled:
  Contract packages including start and end dates.
  Traffic data for both Widening and Strengthening and Road Maintenance packages, as
  recorded in the year of project completion.
  Riding quality and speeds at completion.
  Construction cost for each package (corridor) separately.
  Phase-wise cost for Social, Environmental and Resettlement & Rehabilitation for the
  widening and strengthening works.
  Actual per kilometer cost of the Periodic and Routine Maintenance.

D. Economic Re-evaluation and Assumptions
The analysis framework is based on IRC: SP 30:1993, Manual on Economic Evaluation
of Highway Projects in India, along with Updated Road User Cost Data by the Central
Road Research Institute, both 1992 and 2001.


                                            27

Assumptions: To keep the base parameters similar to those used in the PAD, the same
basic assumptions for economic evaluation have been used, to the maximum extent
possible, as those used at appraisal. The key inputs and assumptions are as stated below:

  Construction costs have been phased over the actual construction period, using actual
  disbursement data.
  Environmental and R&R costs were made available only as totals for each annual
  tranche (or phase). Therefore, they have been allocated to the first year of construction,
  while undertaking the phase-level analysis only, i.e. INR34 millions for Phase I,
  INR290 millions for Phase IIA and INR188 million for Phase IIB respectively, for
  GSHP.
  All costs and benefits are converted to 2007-08 prices to maintain a common datum
  for analysis.
  Analysis period has been taken as 20 years from the start of construction.
  For pavement deterioration, the periodic maintenance interval observed in the past for
  state highways has been used. For the with-project scenario, the maintenance trigger
  has been taken as 4.5 m/km IRI, whereas in the 'do minimum scenario', a roughness of
  6.5 m/km IRI has been taken as the trigger for the first periodic maintenance, with the
  same increasing by 5% for successive periodic maintenance.
  The interval for periodic maintenance has been taken as 5 years for the `with project'
  scenario and 6 years for the `do minimum scenario'.
  In the `With Project' case, for the first year of operation after the widening or major
  maintenance, no routine maintenance has been assumed, considering that the
  contractors would take care of the same during their Defects Liability Period.
  All financial costs have been converted to economic prices using a factor of 0.9.
  A discount rate of 12% has been used for the analysis.
  Traffic level in the project completion year, for each corridor, has been taken after
  comparing the data made available by the R&BD with the ones available with LASA,
  as part of earlier studies. These included the Strategic Options Study (both 1995 and
  2006), PCC (1997), Revalidation Study (2006) and any other data available. The
  traffic volumes at completion ranged from 4,400 vpd to 20,900 vpd for W&S, and
  from 2,700 vpd to 12,700 vpd for RMC.
  Future traffic growth rates have been taken from the recently concluded "Updated
  Strategic Options Study under GSHP-II", which calculated trend growth rates at
  regional level. The rates during the period 2000-10 were between 2.8% and 7.8% for
  different types of vehicles in the different regions in the State.
  The same values as at appraisal were used for passenger time, escalated to 2007-08
  prices by using the wholesale price index.

Re-evaluation Findings: As before, the economic indicators of ERR and NPV have been
calculated considering savings in vehicle operating costs and the value of time saved.
The results are shown below in Tables A3.2 and A3.3. The values for the total of each
component are for 20 years starting from the first year of investment, i.e. 2000.

   Table A3.2: Economic Re-evaluation Results - Widening & Strengthening Component
                                                (ERR in % and NPV in million INR at 2007-08 prices)



                                             28

                                         With VOC and VOT Savings
             PHASE I                               PHASE IIA                                 PHASE IIB
Package        ERR         NPV          Package          ERR          NPV        Package          ERR            NPV
GSHP-1         41%          2,670       GSHP-6           36%          4,400     GSHP-9A           48%            2,400
GSHP-2         76%          8,710       GSHP-7           45%          6,750     GSHP-9B           31%            1,210
GSHP-3         30%          1,560       GSHP-8           47%          3,460     GSHP-10           35%            2,530
GSHP-4         41%          1,920                                               GSHP-11           550%           8,850
GSHP-5         41%          1,820                                               GSHP-12           30%            2,220
                                                                                GSHP-13           21%             560
                                                                                GSHP-14           35%            1,010
TOTAL          48%        16,650        TOTAL            40%         14,380      TOTAL            38%           17,640
     In $ million           416             In $ million              359               In $ million              441
              TOTAL W&S CORRIDORS                                     ERR           44%            NPV          35,450
                                                                                 In $ million                     886

        Table A3.3: Economic Re-evaluation Results - Road Maintenance Component
                                                                 (ERR in % and NPV in million INR at 2007-08 prices)
                                           With VOC and VOT Savings
         Year 1                         Year 2                          Year 3                        Year 4
Package      ERR   NPV       Package      ERR       NPV      Package     ERR       NPV      Package     ERR       NPV
 RMC1       191%   1,490     RMC11        145%        700    RMC21       150%        880     RMC32      147%       1,690
 RMC2       742%     710     RMC12         40%        130    RMC22        75%        550     RMC33      141%       1,460
 RMC3        69%     780     RMC13         73%        530    RMC23       107%        370     RMC34      137%       1,240
 RMC4        67%     370     RMC14         63%        210    RMC24       101%        310     RMC35       38%         180
 RMC6       255%   1,530     RMC15        120%        900    RMC25        32%        140     RMC36      100%         210
 RMC7        84%   1,740     RMC16        131%        760    RMC27        53%        130     RMC37      114%       1,110
 RMC8        47%     280     RMC17         63%        630    RMC28       131%      1,950
 RMC9        97%     450     RMC18        222%      1,120    RMC29       176%      1,000
RMC10       134%     690     RMC19        153%      1,590    RMC30       176%      1,400
                                                             RMC31       158%        940
TOTAL        99%   7,910     TOTAL        109%      6,590    TOTAL       122%      7,680    TOTAL       117%       5,900
   In $ million      198        In $ million          165       In $ million         190       In $ million          148
             TOTAL RMC CORRIDORS                                   ERR            101%            NPV             19,750
                                                                                               In $ million          494


E. Comparison and Conclusion
Comparison: The key economic indicators as estimated at appraisal (ex-ante) are
compared with those after implementation (ex-post) in Table A3.4.

Table A3.4: Comparison of Cost Benefits of GSHP - PAD vs. Implementation Comparison
                                                                                (All figures of cost-benefit in $ million)
                                 Project Appraisal Stage                     Implementation Completion Stage

   Components                       at 1997-98 prices                                   at 2007-08 prices

                      Benefits       Costs          Net                                 Costs        Net
                                                Benefits       ERR        Benefits                Benefits        ERR

Widening and                 691         245          446
Strengthening              (879)       (312)         (567)       33%           886         221          665         44%

Road Maintenance             417          25          392
                           (530)        (32)         (499)      100%           494          52          442       101%

Overall                   1,108          270          838
                        (1,409)        (343)      (1,066)        44%         1,380         273        1,107         57%

Note: 1. Exchange rate: $1 = INR40
      2. The numbers in ( ) for project appraisal stage are adjusted to 2007 prices for comparison.

Conclusion: The conclusions of this analysis are as follows:


                                                          29

       The returns on investment, in economic terms, are on the higher side than those
       envisaged at appraisal.
       Some corridors were changed during implementation. This had an effect on the
       difference in project ERR and NPV.
       Strategic investment decisions such as maximizing network effects coupled with
       good procurement practices and quality service delivery seem to have been the
       vital element in achieving higher project benefits. Also, decisions taken rightly
       from time to time to use project savings to cover more road network length may
       have resulted in accrual of high returns. This reflects on the strengthened
       institutional capacity/competence of R&BD.

F. Cost Reduction
The project had a prominent cost reduction against the cost expected at appraisal. The
total cost of road works went down from about $533 million to about $408 million at
completion, which is about a 23% reduction (see Annex 1). Table A3.5 clarifies the
actual difference in unit cost of construction.

   Table A3.5: Unit Construction Cost Comparison between Appraisal and Completion

                                   Total Cost      Total Cost                 Unit Cost
             Item                  ($ million,     ($ million,    Length     ($ 000/km,
                                1997-98 prices)  2007-08 prices)   (km)     2007-08 prices)
 Project Appraisal Stage Road Works Costs
  Widening and Strengthening          $348.8          $443.7        886 km       $501
       Road Maintenance                $55.2           $70.2        857 km        $82
             Total                    $404.0          $513.9      1,743 km          ---
 Implementation Completion Stage Road Works Costs
  Widening and Strengthening                          $330.0        871 km       $379
       Road Maintenance                                $66.6        969 km        $69
             Total                                    $396.6      1,839 km          ---


A combination of factors led to this substantial cost reduction, as follows:

1. During the project preparation period in 1997-1998, the World Bank and R&BD team
   spent a lot of time on cost estimates for the civil works to ensure robustness. Also,
   after the nuclear sanctions against Pakistan and India were lifted and the project was
   re-activated in 2000 after a two-year suspension, another detailed review of project
   costs was carried out to ensure that the prices properly reflected the lapsed time.
   Thus, the engineer's estimate for the civil works had become quite robust, and more
   importantly quite realistic.

2. When the project was prepared, the exchange rate was US$1 to INR39.7. By June
   2002 the rupee had sunk to INR48 = $1, but then resumed strengthening again. Thus,
   the initial favorable exchange rate fluctuations also made a significant contribution to
   the final large cost savings.

3. The relatively conducive business environment in Gujarat promoted the emergence of
   many local contractors leading to the creation of a rather competitive market in the
   state. At the same time, there was a relative dearth of works in Gujarat and India



                                               30

   during the first and second years of project implementation. Thus, the demand which
   exceeded the supply at that time affected bid prices of the first contract phases, which
   eventually came much lower than expected. Very few contracts went to large Indian
   contractors or foreign contractors, while most of works contracts were awarded to
   local and regional contractors.

4. When bids for contract GSHP-9 Phase II came in above the engineer's estimate,
   R&BD made a big effort to have the works re-bid. The Bank team was initially
   reluctant to accept that approach, but eventually provided no objection for re-bidding
   the contracts. This sent out quite a powerful message to all interested bidders that
   R&BD would not really tolerate bids above the engineer's estimate. As a result, the
   re-bid contract was awarded at a price 20% below the estimate.

5. R&BD was also required to submit justification for planned expenses to the Finance
   Department, which closely controlled spending.

6. Despite some delays in the execution of the works, most contracts were implemented
   within the contractually stipulated time frame. Furthermore, there were very few
   major variation orders to the civil works contracts. This also contributed to the lower
   than expected final costs of the civil works.

Thus, the prominent cost reduction was achieved as a result of a combination of several
factors, including robust cost estimates, a highly competitive market among contractors,
favorable exchange rate fluctuations, the GOG's focus on money, and R&BD's tight
management of contracts.




                                            31

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Fabio Galli                Financial Analyst                  SA2EI   Team Leader
Douglas Gray               Program Assistant                  SA2EI   Program Assistant
Guang Z. Chen              Transport Economist                SA2EI   Economic Analysis
Sujit Das                  Highway Engineer                   SA2RS   Engineering
Ernst Huning               Consultant                         SA2EI   Institutional Devt.
Noncef Chaabouni           Consultant                         SA2EI   Engineer
Hiroko Imamura             Legal Counsel                       Legal  Lawyer
Reidar Kvan                Social Development Officer         ASTHR   Social Safeguards
I.U.B. Reddy               Social Development Officer         ASTHR   Social Safeguards

Anil Somani                Environmental Specialist           SA2RS   Team Leader/
                                                                      Environment
Rajat Narula               Finance and Accounting Specialist    --    Financial Management
Sanjay Vani                Finance and Accounting Specialist    --    Financial Management
Cecil Perera               Disbursement Officer                 --    Disbursement
N. Raman                   Procurement Specialist             SA2RS   Procurement
Irene Christy              Program Assistant                  SA2EI   Program Assistant
Antonio Cittati            Highway Engineer                     --    Engineering
Peter Long                 --                                   --    Peer Reviewer
Dieter Havlicek            --                                   --    Peer Reviewer
Manuel Rosini              Consultant                           --
Sonia Kapoor               Environment Specialist             SASEN   Environment
Syed Ahmed                 Legal Counsel                        --    Lawyer
Blanchard Marke            Disbursement Officer                 --    Disbursement

Supervision/ICR
Sita Ramakrishna Addepalli Environmental Specialist           SASDN   Environment
Debabrata Chakraborti      Sr. Procurement Specialist         SARPS   Procurement
Jaswant S. Channe          Consultant                         SASDT   Procurement
Sujit Das                  Sr. Transport Engineer             SASDT   Engineering
Atul Bhalchandra Deshpande Financial Management Specialist    SARFM   Financial Managemt
Rajesh B. S. Dongol        Program Assistant                  SASDO   Program Assistant
Ke Fang                    Sr. Urban Transport Specialist     SASDT   Task Team Leader
Fabio Galli                Sr. Financial Analyst              AFTTR   Task Team Leader
Ernst Huning               Consultant                         SASDT   Institutional Dev.
Manoj Jain                 Sr. Financial Managemt Specialist  SARFM   Financial Mgmt.
I. U. B. Reddy             Senior Social Developt Specialist  SASDS   Social Safeguard
Ritu Sharma                Program Assistant                  SASDO   Program Assistant
Anil H. Somani             Consultant                         EASTE   Environment
Mitsuyoshi Asada           Sr. Transport Specialist           SASDT   ICR Team Leader
Natalya Stankevich         Operations Analyst                 SASDT   ICR Team Member
Reefat Sultana             Project Analyst                    SASDT   ICR Team Member




                                               32

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks    $ 000 (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
             Lending
               FY94                (Data Not Available)                1.57
               FY95                (Data Not Available)                6.95
               FY96                (Data Not Available)               39.42
               FY97                (Data Not Available)              186.81
               FY98                (Data Not Available)              228.63
               FY99                (Data Not Available)               41.68
               FY00                (Data Not Available)               12.78
               FY01                (Data Not Available)                0.00
               FY02                (Data Not Available)                0.42
                            Total: (Data Not Available)              518.26
         Supervision/ICR
               FY97                (Data Not Available)                2.61
               FY98                (Data Not Available)                2.59
               FY99                (Data Not Available)                3.44
               FY00                (Data Not Available)               71.75
               FY01                        18                         96.70
               FY02                        20                         82.83
               FY03                        23                        105.32
               FY04                        23                         90.18
               FY05                        19                        108.43
               FY06                        26                        140.03
               FY07                        26                        107.26
               FY08                        52                         73.12
                            Total:        207                        884.26




                                        33

                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project carried out impact assessments of (a) the Periodic Maintenance and Widening
and Strengthening Components, and (b) the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
implemented in the Gujarat State Highway Project. The main findings of these
assessments are presented below.

(a) Periodic Maintenance and Widening and Strengthening Component

Periodic maintenance was executed on 972 km of State Highways and improvement
works (widening and strengthening) on 849 km of State Highways. The main benefits
and impacts the improved roads have brought to the beneficiaries include:

o Improved condition of the roads. Prior to the implementation of the project, a survey
    conducted on the roads subject to periodic maintenance showed that the roughness of
    the pavement was in the range of 6 to 20 m/km and on roads subject to widening and
    strengthening it was IRI 6.5 m/km. After the completion of the project the roughness
    was recorded at about IRI 4 m/km on roads which received periodic maintenance, and
    IRI 1.5-2.2 m/km on roads which were widened and strengthened.
o Reduction in travel time. After the completion of periodic maintenance on the roads,
    the following average speed of travel was recorded: 50 km/h (against 35 km/h on the
    roads in their pre-project condition) on the 1st­ and 2nd-year roads, and 60 km/h
    (against 40 km/h on the roads in their pre-project condition) on the 3rd­ and 4th-year
    roads. This implies that travel time of the road users has been reduced by 30% on the
    1st and 2nd-year roads and 33% on 3rd and 4th-year roads. The average speed of light
    motor vehicles on roads improved under the Widening and Strengthening Component
    was recorded in the range of 60-65 km/h and on some clear straight stretches cars can
    achieve a speed of 80-100 km/h. This contrasts with 35-40 km/h prior to the project,
    and sometimes 20 km/h on several severely deteriorated road stretches. Though no
    speed measurements have been made of heavy vehicles on the roads under either
    project component, the observations of the R&BD's engineers indicate that heavy
    vehicles are also able to cruise at higher speeds than before, staying in the left-hand
    lane and allowing more overtaking opportunities for faster light vehicles.
o Traffic growth. The traffic count surveys conducted on the roads have recorded the
    average annual growth rate of 6% on the roads that received periodic maintenance
    (Table A5.1). The survey conducted on the roads improved under the Widening and
    Strengthening Component also showed traffic growth, which was significant on some
    roads and moderate on others (Table A5.2).

Table A5.1: Annual Traffic Growth Rate on the Roads that received Periodic Maintenance

                           Year of PMC roads                 %
                                  Year ­ 1                   7.4
                                  Year ­ 2                   4.9
                                   Year -3                   6.7
                                  Year ­ 4                   6.3
                                  Average                    6.3
   Source: Impact Assessments of Periodic Maintenance RMC-1, RMC-2, RMC-3 and RMC-4; R&BD




                                                34

         Table A5.2: Traffic Growth under Widening and Strengthening Component

                                  PCU growth %                 Heavy Commercial Vehicles Growth

         Road                                                                  %
                         2001 ­        2002 -      2003 ­        2001 -      2002 -     2003 -
                          2002         2003        2004           2002       2003        2004
 Sarkhej - Viramgam        8             -6         11.8            0         -1.2        15
 Mehsana - Palanpur        11           20           -              3          3          -
 Rajkot - Falla            7            27           -              0         24          -
 Kadodara - Bajipura       0             5          0.7             5          6          -4
 Halol - Godhra            9             3           -              5          1          -

o Improved safety on the roads that received periodic maintenance. The study has
    evaluated road safety on the road corridors of 1st, 3rd and 4th year roads. Despite the
    fact that the traffic has continued growing at 6% p.a. on these roads, road safety has
    not deteriorated but improved. The number of accidents that occurred on the roads
    after the completion of periodic maintenance works has declined by 23% on the 1st-
    year roads, 22% on 4th-year roads and 8% on 3rd-year roads. On average, the number
    of traffic accidents has decreased by 16% (Table A5.3).

    Table A5.3: The Number of Accidents on the Roads receiving Periodic Maintenance

 Year of PMC      No of                  Average number of accidents per year            Decrease
     roads       corridors            Pre project                Post project               %
                           Fatal    Major   Minor   Total   Fatal   Major  Minor   Total
   Year ­ 1            8      188      68      231   487     141      84     150   375      23%
   Year ­ 2                                       data not available
    Year -3           10       58      172      89   319      62     124     109   295       8%
   Year - 4            6       53      132      23   208      26      99      37   162      22%
Weighted avg          24                                                                    16%
Source: Impact Assessments of Periodic Maintenance RMC-1, RMC-2, RMC-3 and RMC-4; R&BD

o Road users' satisfaction with the improved road conditions. R&BD engineers
    conducted a sample interview of different categories of road users to assess their
    perception of the benefits of the improved road conditions. The interviewees included
    representatives of the following sectors: transportation, health, industries and
    commerce, and agriculture sectors. 100% of the survey respondents expressed their
    satisfaction with the impacts the improved road conditions made. In particular, they
    highlighted comfortable drive, increase in travel speed, reduced travel time, improved
    safety, growth of ownership of cars, bicycles, scooters and motorcycles, faster
    transportation of products to the market, easier access to markets, health and
    education facilities, and improvement in attendance of students and teachers in school.
    Unfortunately, no additional data collection was carried out to provide statistics in
    support of the above road users' perceptions.

(b) Resettlement and Rehabilitation

The project affected around 891 families and 416 community assets. The Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) was prepared to avoid displacement wherever feasible by exploring
all viable alternative project designs and to provide assistance to those who were
displaced by the project, in order to allow them to regain their former standard of living



                                                 35

without additional cost. The RAP adopted under this project was community-oriented and
in many ways tried to meet the community needs. In addition to the construction of 56
religious establishments, 494 bus stands and 25 hand pumps and similar assets in the
affected areas, the project followed the communities' request and built new bus stands
and 11 underpasses to facilities used by local people. All the assets created under the
RAP are in use and in working condition.

The final land acquisition (53 hectares) in the project is lower than what was identified at
the time of appraisal (65 hectares). Similarly, the final number of affected households is
28% lower than what was anticipated at the time of appraisal (891 households against
1,253 at the time of appraisal). The lower impacts are due to efforts made by the
implementing agency to explore alternative options to minimize the impacts through
adjustments in the alignments and reducing the corridor of impact width wherever
possible. The total land acquisition and resettlement costs in the project are only 0.14% of
the project cost (Rs. 28.4 million against the total project cost of about Rs. 20,000
million).

An impact study of the relocation and resettlement carried out in the GSHP was made to
identify impacts on the project affected persons (PAPs). The impact analysis is based on
data collected from the sample PAPs, control groups and a baseline data survey. The
sample was selected on the basis of the stratified random sample technique in order to
provide an adequate coverage to all GSHP corridors and all categories of entitlement
(Table A5.4). The sample size was based on the number of persons/households affected by
the project in different categories. The sample covers various types of entitlements. The
categories are not mutually exclusive and one person could receive a benefit of more than
one category. This in particular applied to business losers who received shifting and
subsistence allowances as well as training. The sample was geographically dispersed,
resulting in a non-concentrated field situation. There were 14 roads spread over 12
districts of the state and overall 495 responses only.

     Table A5.4: Sample Size of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Impact Assessment

         Category             Total Nos.    Nos. Included                      Percentage
                                             in the Sample   Nos. Contacted     Covered
1. Shifting allowances            226                56            57             25%
2. Subsistence allowances          98                30            30             31%
3. Land losers                    665               121           121             18%
4. Alternative housing             15                15            15             100%
5. Relocation of
community assets                  589                96           133             23%

6. Training                        59                35            35             59%
TOTAL                              -                353           391
Non affected households            -                100           104
       Grand Total                                  453           495

The impact assessment has shown the following impacts made on the people affected by
the project:

o Availability of cash for daily needs and business investment. The RAP supported the
    payment of compensation, provision of alternative housing, and training to those who
    lost their land to the project. Around 50% of PAPs used the paid compensation to


                                             36

  meet their daily consumption needs and 38% invested in their business (Table A5.5).
 None of PAPs used the money to purchase new land or business.

               Table A5.5: Use of Compensation Received by Land Losers

                          Activity                  Number         Percentage
          Repayment of debt                              4              2.4
          Invested in business                          63            37.7
          Retained as bank saving                       13              7.8
          Used for consumption requirement              84            50.3
          Release the mortgage of land                   3              1.8
                           Total                       167           100.0

o Improved living conditions. 15 families who lost their houses to the project were
  provided with alternative housing. Their new houses have better conditions, bigger
  size and more facilities. The average size of their houses has increased from 8-15
  sq.m. to 20-35 sq.m. The water and sanitation facilities are in better condition. The
  houses also have electricity, separate rooms for bath and toilets. The increased
  availability of cash has resulted in an increase in ownership of such assets as vehicles,
  cooking gas, TV, refrigerators, tape recorders, and radios (Table A5.6). However,
  assets ownership has not increased to the extent to which it has increased among the
  control group in the case of two-wheelers and cooking gas and tape-recorders. While
  in the case of TVs and refrigerators the PAPs are ahead of the control group. Thus
  even the change in asset ownership does not indicate change in living standards.
o Training opportunity. 59 families were entitled for training but only 39 accepted this
  option and the other 20 families preferred gaining new assets such as buffaloes, goats,
  a hand cart or small kiosk, goods for trading, etc. 40% of the sample 13 PAPs who
  acquired assets instead of training used them for business. Training was provided on
  driving to 16 persons, tailoring to 12, repairing to seven, computers to two, and other
  subjects to two. Nearly 70% of the sample of 22 PAPs who received training found it
  useful. Out of 15 who have started business, eight are earning an additional Rs.500-
  1,000 per month and two are earning more than Rs.1000 per month additional. This
  income is very vital, as 55% reported that their income has declined if real income
  (after adjusting for inflation) is compared, and 20% said that the training or
  acquisition of household assets (buffaloes, hand cart, etc.) had enabled them to
  generate income equal to the loss of their income only and so there is no net addition
  to their income.
o Increase in household income: The monthly family income in financial terms has
  increased compared to the baseline data and there is an upward move in the income
  division of PAPs. The post-project average family income of PAPs is found to be
  Rs.5,380 against Rs.3,661 in the baseline and Rs.4,744 of the control group. However
  the inflation adjusted income shows a decline in purchasing power of PAPs compared
  to the baseline data. But they are definitely better than the control group. The
  percentage of households having less than Rs.2,000 of income has shrunk from
  51.6% in the baseline data to 29.8% in the case of the control group (Table A5.6).
  Similarly, the share of households in the category of Rs.2,000 to 3,000 increased from
  20% to 21% among PAPs and 25% in the case of the control group. A sizable




                                            37

    increase is noted in the income group earning above Rs.5,000 ($125) per month
    namely 26% in PAPs from 12.5% in the base data and 19.2% in the control group.
o Growth of employment rate. The number of households with only one earning
    member has shrunk from 72.4% to 53.3% in the case of PAPs and to 61.5% in the
    control group, whereas the number of families with two or more earning members has
    increased from 17.5% to 29.4% in the case of PAPs and 20.2% in the control group
    (Table A5.6). This has resulted in a higher employment rate and higher monetary
    income compared to the baseline data.

             Table A5.6: Comparison of the Pre-project and Post-project Situations

                                                                    Impact Assessment Control Group
              Indicators                     Base Line Survey
                                                   (1999)            Study Survey     Household Survey
                                                                       (2006-07)      (2006-07)
                                             Social Characteristics
Household Size (No of members)                       6.1                   5                 5
Literacy Rate (in %)                                69.5                 77                 76.3
Gender Ratio (per thousand males)                  834                  882                863
                                           No. of Earning members
Dependency ratio                                       3.2                 3.1               2.9
One Member (% of households)                         72.4                53.3               61.5
Two Member (% of households)                         17.5                29.4               20.2
More than two members (% HHs)                        10.3                17.3               18.3
                                                   Occupation
Employment Rate (in %)                               25.8                33.1               30.8
Self Employed (in %)                                 44.8                33                 33
Laborers & Daily Wage Earners                        25.6                32                 23.1
(in %)
Cultivators & Agricultural                           19.5                26                 30
Laborers (in %)
Salaried Employees (in %)                              8.9                 9                13.4
                                    Monthly Family Income & Debt (in Rs)
<Rs. 2,000 (% of HH)                                 51.6                29.8               25
Rs.2,001-3,000 (% of HH)                             19.7                20.9               25
Rs.3,001 ­ 5,000 (% of HH)                           15.6                22.9               30.8
>Rs.5,001 (% of HH)                                  12.5                26.0               19.2
Average Income (in Rs.)                           3,661               5,380              4,744
Average Debt. (in Rs.)                               NA              66,485             42,738
                                               Asset Ownership
Two Wheeler (% of HHs)                               11.2                33.7               36.5
Cooking Gas (% of HHs)                               10.0                31.4               36.5
Television (% of HHs)                                20.9                57.8               49.0
Refrigerator (% of HHs)                                3.4               15.5               13.5
Tape recorder (% of HHs)                             14.0                13.6               21.2
Radio (% of HHs)                                       8.0                 4.7               3.9
Note: Out of 258 respondents, income was not reported for 73.
Dependency ratio is total family/earning members.
Source: Based on baseline survey of the department and field survey.


o Change in the occupational profile. The employment rate has increased from 26% in
    the baseline survey to 33% for PAPs and 31% for the control group. But most of this
    increase has come from labor work. The percentage of earners depending upon
    agriculture and other labor together has increased from 43% in the baseline to 58%.


                                                        38

    This percentage among PAPs is higher even compared to the control group. The share
    of the self-employed has reduced from 45% to 33% in the case of both PAPs and the
    control group. It has been observed that many micro businesses have closed down due
    to disruption in the business. Those who closed their business joined agriculture and
    so the number of persons dependent on agriculture has increased. In this context
    increase in employment rate cannot be considered as an indicator of development ­
    rather it is an indicator of distressed employment. This has also been the reason for
    the observed increase in the number of earning members per household.

Socio-Economic Impact Survey

The project conducted a socio-economic survey to interview beneficiaries about the
benefits of the Periodic Maintenance Component. The survey covered representatives of
agricultural, industry and commerce, health and education sectors. However, this survey
did not collect any data on variables to support the feedback of the respondents with
quantifiable data. The findings of the survey are summarized below.

All respondents regardless of their occupational profile indicated the following benefits
of the roads that received periodic maintenance: comfortable drive, faster speed, reduced
travel time, growth of vehicle ownership, and increased availability of commercial
vehicles to transport bulk products to market.

The main impacts the roads made on each of the sectors include:

Agricultural sector:
 · Reduction in travel time and cost for transportation of agricultural produce
 · Positive impact on agricultural infrastructure, as most farmers use mechanized
    equipment for cultivation
 · Easier transportation of fertilizer, seeds and pesticides
 · Increase in profitability of agricultural produce
 · More efficient time saving and profitable process of cultivation
 · More trips and enhancement in profitability in produce
 · General prosperity of farmers

Industry and Commerce Sector:
 · Easier access to raw materials
 · Reduction in travel times and vehicle operating costs
 · Increase in profitability of industrial and commercial establishments
 · Enhancement of general prosperity of people

Health Sector:
 · Increase in accessibility to preventive and curative health care facilities
 · Better management of infectious diseases and attending emergencies
 · Better health care of people

Education Sector:
 · Improvement in access to education facilities
 · Improvement in enrolment and attendance in school
 · Regular attendance of teachers



                                              39

              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                     (if any)

Stakeholder workshop was not conducted.




                                        40

                                   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.         INTRODUCTION

1.1        Background
Gujarat State Highway Project (GSHP) is one of the important and successful endeavours of Government of
Gujarat (GoG) and Roads and Buildings Department (R&BD) implemented with assistance of the World
Bank (WB).
This major initiative towards improvement of State Highway network has achieved substantial project
completion by December 2007.
The reference to conceiving of this project goes back to
1995; by then GoG-R&BD appreciated the lower efficiency                                 Chronology of Events
of major road network due to rapid growth in traffic levels            Strategic Options Study (SOS)                 1995
coupled with existing inadequate and deteriorating road                Policy Letter from Chief Secretary        Jan-1997
infrastructure. To this respect the `Strategic Options                 Commenced Project Co-ordinating
Study' (SOS), was carried out in 1995 covering nearly                  Consultancy (PCC) Services                    1997

3100 Km of roads for prioritisation.                                   Techno-Economic Feasibility Study          1997/98
                                                                       Appraisal of the Project                  Jan-1998
This important study based on strategic parameters                     Negotiations                              May-1998
recommended a priority list of road corridors for further              Detailed Design and Contract Preparation 1997-2000
techno economic feasibility study and then Detailed                    Board Approval                            Sep-2000
Engineering.                                                           Signing of Agreement                      Oct-2000
                                                                       Project Implementation                   2000-2007
The PCC services under GSHP commenced in the year                      Use of TA Loan (4114 IN) for Studies      7 M US$
1997 wherein 1500 Km of roads recommended through
SOS study were selected for Techno-Economic feasibility in the year 1997-1998. Road Maintenance
Component prioritisation and Institutional Development Strategy Studies as well initiated in 1997-98. The
                                                       studies were funded by the bank in the form of TA Loan

                Key Funding Loan Details               (4114 IN) of US$ 7M.

Project Cost                              US$ 533 M    Detailed Design and Contract preparation of the project
World Bank Loan(4577 IN)                  US$ 381 M    was carried out from 1997-2000. The project was
Revised Loan (end of the project)         US$ 280 M    appraised by the bank in Jan, 1998 with the project cost to
Loan Effectiveness                         15-Nov-00   the tune of US $ 533 M followed by negotiations in May,
Closing Date                               31-Dec-07   1998 which resulted in with loan (IBRD Loan No 4577 IN)
Project Implementation Period           5+(2yr Extn'd) assistance from the bank to the tune of US $ 381 M
Loan Repayment Period                       20 Years   initially, with a Loan Repayment Period of 20 years and a
Moratorium Period                            5 Years   Moratorium Period of 5 years. The Board approval only
Start of Civil works                          Dec-99   took place in Sept, 2000 followed by Signing of the
Work Done Prior to Board Approval           US$ 8 M    Agreement in Oct, 2000 due to Pokhran Nuclear Blast in
Note: US$ 1 = INR 39.71                                1998. The loan was later revised to US $ 280 M on
account of project savings. Project Implementation was initially from 2000-2005, but was extended by one
year and subsequently by further one year to 31st December 2007.
After successful implementation of the GSHP; WB desires, as part of its mandatory requirements, to prepare
project implementation completion report (ICR), which would state the success and/or failure of the project
implementation. One of the components of ICR is Borrower's Own evaluation of the project. This is to
present borrower's (R&BD's) own assessment of performance of key players, out come of the project,
lessons learnt and suggestions for WB and/or for future project of such magnitude.

1.2        Project Formulation
The intent of having such project like GSHP took shape from very high growth in vehicle population along
with increase in road network length during 1980-1995. From 1980-1995 the length of state road network
had grown from about 45108 Km to 70609 Km, while it's paved portion had increased from 66% to 92%.
During the same period most of the expansion in the state road network had occurred on the low capacity
village road (VR) network while state motor vehicle registration had increased by about 14% per year and
traffic also by the same rate.
The " Gujarat Road Development Plan 1981-2001" recognised needs due to rapid growing traffic levels and
the existing inadequate and deteriorating road infrastructure conditions. As a result the GoG had sought WB
assistance in improving both the capacity and quality of its core state road network. As a first step the state
had Gujarat Rural Road Project (GRRP) through WB funding to deal with expansion and improvement of
village road network. Hence focus on capacity and structural improvement to the State Highway network
was more than essential then (1995-98).


                                                           41

To address the Road Development Plan objectives, GoG had
framed State Road Policy, which was consistent with WB's                                  State Road Policy
strategy as defined in "India Transport Sector - Long Term                   Primary Objectives
Issues Report (1995)".                                                       (a) provide connectivity to all villages by all

With this background broad focus areas identified to be the                       weather roads
                                                                             (b) provide an adequate and efficient road system
part of the project were:                                                         encompassing all transportation needs to
1. Strengthening institutional capacity of R&BD                                   ensure smooth and un-interrupted flow for intra
                                                                                  and inter state goods and passenger traffic
2. Reduction of Periodic Maintenance backlog                                 (c)  upgrade technology by including superior and

3. Increase in Maintenance Funds in real terms                                    quicker construction and maintenance methods
                                                                             (d) induct more scientific principles in resource
4. Improving capacity and quality of state road network                           allocation for maintenance and new
                                                                                  construction programmes
Based on above focus areas, mutually R&BD and WB had                         (e) set high standards of road safety and travel
framed objectives for GSHP at Project Appraisal Stage.                            comfort
Accordingly key performance indicators were also finalised as reported in PAD.

1.3      Key Performance Indicators
The achievement of the project objectives in line with pre-fixed indicators is summarised through following
tabulation.
                 Performance Indicator                                                Achievement
About 800-900 km of high priority SHs improved               Widening and Strengthening of 870.5 km completed.
(Widening & Strengthening)
About 1,000 km of state roads maintained to a `good'         Maintenance of 968.5 km successfully completed (with
standard (IRI<4.0)                                           IRI<4) through Road Maintenance Component (RMC).
Reduce travel time by 10% on about 1900 km of roads          Reduction in travel time close to 35% in WS and 30% in
improved & maintained under Project.                         RMC
Maintenance funding to be increased by 10% in real           Increased and still continued, Ongoing
terms by 2005.
Maintenance backlog reduced by 20% on State                  Accomplished. RMC 1, 2, 3 and 4 completed.
Highways.                                                    EERP, CRF, NABARD completed / on going. Additional
                                                             funds provided for M&R
At least 500 R&BD and project-related staff to have          About 1500 staff trained to date. Training continued, ongoing
participated in training schemes.
Implementation of agreed institutional strengthening         Accepted, action plan and initiation of implementation on
and modernization action plans.                              going. Gujarat Road Management System (GRMS) being
                                                             further implemented state wide and expanding its spheres to
                                                             rural road net work.
State Plan allocations for capital improvements of road      GoG continues to maintain its commitment
sector & sustained real increases in maintenance
funding as committed by GoG in State Road

1.4      Project Components
Major six components of this project; implemented successfully are listed here under in brief:

Component 1         Widening & strengthening (WS) of about 800-900 km of SHs
Component 2         Land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) costs for Category 1 project expenditures
Component 3         Periodic maintenance of about 1,000 km of SHs
Component 4         Design & supervision of civil works contracts
Component 5         Institutional strengthening services including TA, Training, and Equipment
Component 6         Pre-investment studies

A matrix representing the objectives, monitoring indicators and status of all components has been
elaborately presented in Annexure 1.

1.5      Project Agencies/Partners
The project agencies and partners involved in the project are as follows:
· Employer: Roads and Buildings Department, Governemnt of Gujarat (R&BD-GoG)
· Funding Agency: The World Bank.
· Consultants & Contractors: List of consultants and contractors for WS and RMC are provided at
     Annexure 2.




                                                              42

2.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RE-EVALUATION
2.1      Component wise details
The objectives and benefits have been substantially achieved through the following six components of the
project:
Component 1 - Widening and Strengthening (WS) of SHs: Total length of 870.5 km of core network has
been completed in three phases (Phase I, IIA & IIB). In all 15 ICB contract packages covered this WS length
of 870.5 Km, which was supervised by international consultants. Some additional works, under two contract
packages, were included in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake of 26th January 2001 which
comprised reconstruction of six bridges on two of the Phase I corridors. Regular meetings by PIU/R&BD with
all concerned agencies and rating of construction changes during implementation has yielded good results.
Also EMU and consultants imparted training to implementing agencies and their staff on job. The roads are
constructed to a high standard and attain close to 35% travel time reduction and also achieved good riding
quality which is comparable to standard International Roughness Index (IRI) of less than 4 m/km.
Consequently travel speeds have increased by up to 50%. The new roads are inherently safer than before.
Higher speeds may have an affect on accident cause and severity but not due to geometric deficiency. In
the case of four-lane sections, safety is further enhanced. Surveys of road users and stakeholders,
especially those located adjacent to the new roads, have revealed only satisfaction of the obvious
advantages that the improved roads have provided in terms of riding comfort, speed and aesthetics. Clearly
the commercial, social and environmental benefits are significant and reflect Gujarat's development goals.
Component 2 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement & Rehabilitation: In association with Component 1
Land Acquisition and R&R was carried out successfully and in line with the WB's safeguard policies.
Implementation of the R& R was carried out under separate Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) for each of the
Phases. The R&BD, as part of its institutional arrangements, established the Environmental Management
Unit (EMU), which was responsible for implementing the RAPs with the assistance of NGOs; procured
specifically for the purpose. The Project-Affected-Persons and families (PAPs) were for the most part
satisfied with the RAP implementation and associated compensation and training provided. During the RAP
process a grievance redressal committee was established to hear and adjudicate grievances. The land
acquisition process took a long time, longer than expected, but was completely successful, with only a very
few locations where the engineering design had to be adjusted due to problems of acquisition. R&BD did
exceptional efforts to this respect all through but due to in-commensurate actions from other departments of
GoG, in certain sections there were delays in land acquisition. Despite the time taken to complete the land
acquisition, the civil works were not delayed for this reason.
Component 3 - Periodic Maintenance of SHs: Length of 968.5 km of core network was successfully
completed under four successive road maintenance programs (RMC-1 to 4). The initial intention was for three
years maintenance program for about 755 Km road length but the fourth year maintenance component of
about 213 Km was added to achieve project objective for periodic maintenance. The works were implemented
by local contractors supervised by the R&BD with technical assistance from consultants including the project
coordinating consultants (PCC) who also carried out the project preparation for RMC-1 and RMC-2. The roads
are constructed to a high standard and attain 25-30% travel time reduction. The typical roughness before the
project of 6,000 to 20,000 mm/km has been reduced to 1000 to 3,940 mm/km for the newly maintained roads.
Consequently travel speeds have increased by over 25%. Surveys of road users and stakeholders, especially
those located adjacent to the new roads, have revealed satisfaction of the obvious advantages that the
smoother roads have provided in terms of riding comfort, speed and aesthetics.
Component 4 - Design and Supervision of Civil Works Contracts: Although the design of the project
roads was carried out earlier under a separate TA loan (Ln 4114-IN) by the PCC, their services were
continued through the construction phase. The PCC services primarily included; setting-up of computerized
financial management system, contract document preparation, procurement issues (from PQ to bid
evaluation), and construction monitoring, training, quality assurance appraisal, design changes and contract
management advice to the R&BD project director and Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PCC also
supported the EMU for the implementation of the RAP. Three international consultants were employed to
supervise the widening & strengthening works for each of the three phases.
Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening, TA, Training and Equipment: This component was to fund
consultant services and TA required to implement the IDS developed institutional strengthening action plans
designed to strengthen the R&BD's role as the "manager" of Gujarat's road network. The training needs
envisaged under the Project were to focus on the planning and management of the State road network with
particular emphasis in the areas of procurement, construction and maintenance management of the existing
network. Along with procurement of modern equipments for R&BD office & laboratory modernization and
road management systems, this component also included the installation of equipment to monitor pollution
and noise emissions along main arterial routes.
The achievement of this objective is satisfactory. An international consultant was employed to support the
R&BD in its continuing endeavours to advance progress in achieving the objectives of the Institutional
Strengthening Action Plan. Specifically the consultant's role was threefold; (i) to provide technical assistance

                                                        43

to the Policy and Planning unit, (ii) to strengthen quality management in design and construction and (iii) to
develop a Gujarat Road Management System (GRMS). These three activities have been successfully
completed with tangible outputs, mainly; a fully functioning Policy & Planning Unit, preparation of effective
business plans, corporate plan and annual reports; also the establishment of a fully computerized Gujarat
Road Management System (GRMS) incorporating an extensive data base of the core road network.
Documented Quality Management System has also got developed for further implementation. Training was
integral part of all the three components and which was imparted rightly.
The additional consultancy services which provided for road safety assessment & implementation strategy
and a second generation road fund have `set the ball rolling' for these two vital aspects of road usage and
maintenance to be taken on board by the R&BD in its role as "manager" of the state highway network.
Component 6 - Pre-investment studies: This component was a part of the project to workout techno-
economic feasibility and detailed engineering studies required for a possible follow-up project. Consultant
has successfully completed an Updated Strategic Options Study for prioritizing SHs for
upgrading/maintenance. WB had offered significant inputs in refinements of these studies. This paves the
way for a subsequent programme of investment for widening and strengthening and maintenance works for
up to a further 2200 km of the core road network.

2.2       Delay and other concurrent problems faced
2.2.1     Reasons for Delays
Even though the project could be successfully completed but it was delayed for about two years: The main
reasons for the delays were:
  i. Apart from the late start of project implementation because of Pokhran blast in 1998, major devastating
     earthquake in 2001 and floods and unprecedented heavy rains in the year 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006
     have been the major natural causes for delay in completion of the project.
 ii. Some non-critical path delays at parts of the contract occurred due to numerous underground services
     in the urban areas. This was compounded by lack of cooperation by services owners and local residents.
     Transporters strike and assembly election are some of the social causes for delay. Government public
     undertakings working as contractors took inordinately long time to arrange sub-contractors.

2.2.2     Problems Faced
  i. Due to big time gap between the project preparation (1997) and project implementation (2000-07) the
     ground conditions changed causing deterioration of pavement resulting into increase in quantities,
     change in design parameters and early initiation of pavement distress. Initiation of pavement distress
     has been observed earlier than design in some of the contract packages due to regionalised VDF
     adoption, where heavy industrial traffic was growing and plying. [Refer suggestion 4.2.1(i)]
 ii. Devastating Earthquake in January 2001 caused damages to CD structures at some locations.
iii. Unprecedented heavy monsoon in the year 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 resulted in:
       (a)     Short working period
       (b)     Wash out of some of the diversions to the structures affecting traffic management
       (c)     Over toping of water during floods increased the pavement deterioration rate.
       (d)     Higher moisture content in soil
       (e)     Borrow area and quarries filled with water for longer duration
       (f)     Introduction of many additional CD works
iv. Traffic management though dealt satisfactorily was a hurdle in overall progress of the work, especially
     for the sections where traffic was heavy and/or urban/town sections. [Refer suggestion 4.2.1 (vi)]
 v. Strengthening and widening of existing 7 m wide pavement was envisaged under this project, therefore
     construction activities in specified sections had to be restricted on half the width of Carriageway and the
     remaining half CW was left open for movement of the regular traffic. On High volume traffic corridors
     Management of traffic on half width of carriageway had posed a big problem especially on sections
     where overlay of wet mix macadam was provided. The WMM surface is prone to disintegration if the
     traffic moves on freshly laid surface without bituminous paving layer. Despite having all traffic
     management measures in place it was awfully difficult to control the movement of traffic on WMM
     surface during night hours, which caused disintegration and damages to WMM surfaces. [Refer
     suggestion 4.2.1 (vi)]
vi. Contractor's susceptibility to slide down to inferior quality and sluggishness as soon as employer's vigil
     goes down. [Refer suggestion 4.2.4 (iii)]
vii. Lack of accountability and ownership sense from CSC. [Refer suggestion 4.2.4(vi)]




                                                        44

viii. In town areas, problems were encountered due to presence of unknown underground utilities.
      Identification and relocation of unknown underground utilities during the construction have been one of
      the problems. [Refer suggestion 4.2.1(iii),(iv)]
ix. Problem in construction did arise because of lack of effective inter departmental coordination, such as
      Revenue, Forest, GED, Water Supply and Sewerage Board and other agencies. [Refer suggestion
      4.2.1(iv),(v)]
 x. Heavy vehicular traffic on urban and rural link of the corridors. [Refer suggestion 4.2.1 (xii))]
xi. Discharge of industrial affluent in the roadside drains causing unhygienic conditions in the area and
      reduction in capacity of drains. Moreover industrial affluent damages the concrete lining of drains. [Refer
      suggestion 4.2.1 (iv), (xiii)]
xii. Steep rise in prices of bitumen and fuel during project implementation period had upset the contractor's
      financial planning.

 2.3      Economic Re-evaluation upon completion
 Table 1 shows Results of Cost Benefit Analysis of the Gujarat State Highway Project at completion.
                            Table 1: Cost Benefits Analysis of GSHP at Completion
                                                                                   (All figures of Cost-Benefit in US$ Millions)
                                         Project Appraisal Stage              Implementation Completion Stage
          Components                       (at 1997-98 prices)                         (at 2007-08 prices)
                                Benefits  Costs   Net Benefits  EIRR (%) Benefits     Costs Net Benefits EIRR (%)
 Widening and Strengthening          691      245           446      33%        886        221             665         43.64%
 Road Maintenance                    417       25           392    100%         494          52            442       101.48%
 Overall                             1108     270           838      44%       1380        273            1107         57.06%

 3.       ASSESSMENT OF IMPLEMENTED PROJECT
 3.1      By Borrower (R&BD)
   i. R&BD provides internal rating to the project as more than satisfactory, overall successful. This
      statement gets support of user satisfaction surveys, economic re-evaluation after implementation
      completion and grown up confidence and enhanced skills-capabilities of R&BD staff along with
      contractors.
  ii. The R&BD officers were actively involved in the corridor readiness activities, local liaison, monitoring of
      the works, environmental/social issues and gained indirect experience of the duties of the Engineer and
      contract administration under FIDIC conditions. This will be of great utility for other projects of such
      magnitude.
 iii. R&BD strictly followed the procurement rules of WB. As a result, competitive rates could be achieved
      and a significant saving to the tune of @ 17% could be achieved against engineer's estimates. R&BD
      took initiative on its own for negotiation of contract package and splitting it into two as package 9A and
      9B, which eventually turned out as good intervention. At the same time R&BD has got special technical
      support from bank towards award of contract package GSHP-10. For this package, the matter of
      procurement went upto highest body i.e. Hon. Supreme Court of India, where decision delivered was in
      employer's favour.
iv. During project execution the Divisional Offices were actively involved, somewhere directly (especially in
      RMC works and implementation of EMP & RAP) somewhere indirectly.
 v. Overall contribution from EMU is noteworthy. Regular site visits, interactions with contractors and
      consultants, imparting training to their staff on job as well as in PIU and taking contractual actions of
      retaining payment, not releasing dues to contractors have greatly helped in successful implementation
      of EMAP. Other states of India visited GSHP to have understanding of the environmental mitigation
      practices adopted by R&BD.
vi. The department has done exceedingly well on human resources front by having HR manager in place
      and related development objectives. During the project tenure dedicated Chief Engineer took charge of
      Staff Training College to carry forward the training agenda. The autonomy proposal mooted to GoG to
      empower STC in further HR development and training.
vii. R&BD's staff got trained and enhanced technical skills through GSHP, has demonstrated skill transfer in
      many ways. To quote (1) full fledge involvement of R&BD-GSHP staff in other WB funded project
      namely Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project (GEERP); and, (2) the design for RMC-III
      & IV was carried out in-house.
viii. Afforestation had major hurdle of non availability of funds from CAMPA (GoI) and hence from Forest
      Department, GoG.
ix. Auditors are normally not aware of FIDIC contract conditions, roles and responsibilities etc. and are
      increasing work load for department by raising number of not required queries.

                                                           45

 x. The Banks support missions were of a generally high standard and beneficial to the project. The Bank's
      rigorous mission touching the minute details had helped in successful completion of civil works, financial
      monitoring, quality control, implementation of EMAP and R&R, though it sometimes felt harsh to the
      implementing agency. The comments and suggestions in Aide Memoire had helped in solving the
      problems with other line departments of GoG.
 xi. A frequent staff change amongst the consultants was an issue which constantly arose during the project
      duration. Replacements were not found same calibre of the original staff and on many occasion the
      replacements it has been observed that the personnel employed by the consultant are project specific
      and not belonging to the regular establishment of the consultant. Such project specific personnel lacks
      allegiance towards work, therefore the quality of work suffers.
xii. EMAP got implemented satisfactorily with EMU/PIU's efforts, faced some critical situations where water
      was not available for drinking in near by places but execution continued un-affected by contractor's
      purchasing required quantity of water and even in such areas haul roads to borrow areas, quarries
      and/or plant sites were watered regularly for dust suppression. Also the Environmental Guidelines and
      R&R framework prepared by EMU has received open appreciation from Bank and other government
      agencies.
xiii. No serious Audit objections were raised on over all GSHP by Auditor General's office. Except for a few
      cases, Audit Certificates were received within time. Out of Rs. 2132 Crores of expenditure, about Rs. 8
      crores is not certified which is under process of recertification.
xiv. In all, the project has received good appreciation from all spheres. The able assistance from WB,
      contribution from PIU-R&BD [with lean staffing structure (presented in Annexure 4)] and particularly
      GoG along with consultants and contractors made it possible to provide quality infrastructure. The
      targeted benefits to the community are getting realised and will continue to accrue in years to come.
xv. This project has set number of standards on various aspects; to be particular about very few claims and
      disputes. WB in its report named "Indian Road Construction Industry - Capacity Issues, Constraints &
      Recommendations - October 2007", with case study on GSHP, has noteworthy mention. The facts and
      figures in respect of claims are:

                                                                DRB            Arbitration         Court of Law
 Total Number of Cases Referred                                  25                 4                    3
 Number of Cases in Favour of GoG                                15                 3                    1
 Number of Cases in Favour of Contractor                          0                 1                    1
 Number of cases in progress                                     10                 0                    1

xvi. Such good experience and exposure have made department more confident to take on with similar
      project in near future.

 4.        LESSONS LEARNED AND SUGGESTIONS
 4.1       Lessons Learned
   i. Do avoid major delays between Project Preparation and Implementation: Huge time gap between
      the completion of project preparation and commencement of implementation created lot of problems.
  ii. Verification of Contractor's Pre-qualification Statements is must: It is often found that the
      information submitted by the prospective bidder for pre-qualification on `paper' bears little resemblance
      to his actual capabilities.
 iii. Requirement of adequate diversion width and temporary acquisition: Temporary land acquisition
      for traffic diversions where insufficient space exists within the ROW was one of the major problems.
 iv. Environmental Management to be part of project BoQ: Environment Management is an aspect of the
      contract which is very difficult to control with widespread abuses by the contractor ruled simply by cost
      versus profit. The majority of bidders will not make sufficient allowance in their price and do their best to
      avoid or minimize their expenditure on EMAP compliance after contract award.
 v. Need for Safety Audits: Proper Safety audits were not in place.
 vi. Two Envelope System and Check/Verification of Bid Security before opening of Financial Bid: If
      the 1st lowest bid happens to have an improper bid security it is very difficult for the Employer to reject
      the bid because of difficulties justifying such action to the auditors. The Employer would rather ask the
      bidder to resubmit a corrected bid security, which could be seen as unfairly affecting the position of the
      L2 bidder who submitted a proper bid security. The Employer should not be placed in such a position.
vii. Need for Change of Bank Guarantee Format: Most of the commercial banks avoid in giving the Bank
      Guarantee in the format prescribed by the WB, as the Bank's format do not tally with that of Reserve
      Bank of India's standard format.
viii. Define Substantial Completion of the project: The basic requirements to satisfy substantial
      completion are not clearly defined in the documents.
                                                         46

ix. Actual Deployment of Contractor's Key Staff: Contractor's key personnel named in the schedule or
      approved replacement candidates are sometimes not available at works site during normal working
      hours. Some times contractor's foreman or junior technical personnel manage the day to day
      construction activities at site. This has adverse impact on the quality of work.
 x. Define Role of Project Consultants appropriately: Neither in contract for civil works nor in
      construction supervision contracts the role and mandate of Project Coordinating Consultant has been
      clearly defined. Sometimes the CSC was sensitive to any criticism as a result PCC's Observations on
      Quality of works.
xi. CSC time lines beyond project completion: Normally reference for arbitration is made after
      completion of work and by that time the CSC has already demobilized his establishment from project
      office, therefore the entire onus of defending the matter before the arbitrator lies on the Employer.
      Though such decision was taken independently by the CSC without making any reference to the
      Employer, but still the Employer who is ignorant about the matter is required to defend the same before
      the arbitrator.

 4.2       Suggestions
 From the lessons learned and experiences from the project some of the suggestions brought out into the
 notice are given below in this section. An elaborated list of suggestion has been attached in Annexure 3.

 4.2.1     Suggestions for Improving Project Preparation:
   i. Time gap between the completion of project preparation and commencement of implementation
      preferably should not be more than 6 to 9 months.
 ii. Effective and vigorous Public Consultation should be conducted on Proposals regarding realignment,
      and bypasses to incorporate their views and local requirements.
iii. Proposals for shifting of utilities coming in the right of way should be made based on proper surveys and
      consultations with the concerned departments.
iv. The work of land acquisition and shifting of utilities should be well planned and coordinated. All pre-
      construction activities should be completed before award of work.
 v. There should be independent and dedicated cell comprising of R&BD officials (headed by Chief
      Engineer) to have a control for smooth flow of onsite works with a system of daily appraisal of activities
      from the field, coupled with weekly or fortnight meeting of the coordination committee for Land
      Acquisition.
vi. Temporary land acquisition for traffic diversions should be identified as far as possible and resolved at
      the design stage in such cases where insufficient space exists within the ROW.
vii. Sites for Disposal of waste/surplus material satisfying environmental criteria should be identified and
      indicated at the DPR stage to allow proper pricing by the bidders and the contractor to locate proper
      sites during execution of work disposal.
viii. It is proposed to ensure that BoQ items are put into the bidding documents that properly reflect the value
      of the EMAP compliance.

 Design and DPR Stage

ix. Whilst international standards were extensively used, it is ultimately preferable that wherever available
      Indian standards and codes of practice are given priority particularly as they continue to improve and
      reflect the actualities of local conditions.
 x. In the absence of legal axle weight enforcement, stronger pavement designs will be required for
      corridors carrying high or even moderate volumes of industrial traffic.
xi. The ToR for project design should allow for detailed inspection rather than visual inspection only of
      existing structures. This would include NDT testing, taking of core samples, proper bearing inspection,
      etc, so that the full scope of works required can be detailed and properly priced by the bidders.
xii. Where traffic diversions are required, the practicability of constructing diversions should be determined
      at the design stage not during construction.
xiii. Introduction of formal safety audits at the design stage is commensurate with international practice for
      subsequent projects.

 4.2.2     Suggestions for Improving the Bidding & Contract Document:
 4.2.2.1 Instructions to Bidders (ITB)
   i. A Condition may be incorporated in prequalification document and ITB stating that the unofficial sub
      contracting of work either in part or whole is prohibited. Further a condition to this effect should also be
      included in COPA or GCC whereby if during execution it is discovered that a contractor had indulged
      in practice of unofficial sub contracting, he would be summarily disqualified for future tendering in the

                                                          47

      WB financed projects. Maximum limit for subcontracting a work should be stated in the contract
      condition, Instruction to Bidder (ITB).
 ii. A condition should be included in COPA /GCC (NCB) which should mean as under: The contractor will
      deploy at site only those key personnel who are approved by the `Engineer'.
iii. In order to encourage Joint Ventures of local firms with foreign firms the price preference for domestic
      bidders should not be included in the ITB clause 32.
iv. Joint Venture partners who abscond from their responsibilities should be subject to punitive action. A
      condition in ITB and COPA/GCC should be incorporated stating that the JV partners would be
      considered as one entity and would respond to the needs of the contract as and when required.
      Responsibilities of JV partners should be clearly defined.
 v. About checking and verification of Financial Statements of Joint Ventures, the contractual power should
      be given to Employer to perform this task, when even contract is in force; the details like existence of JV,
      its Financial Statement and JV as one entity's project related documents.
vi. Bidders could include all taxes and duties in their bid price and at the end of work the employer claims
      the due rebate from the Customs and excise Authority in a single operation.
vii. The bid security documents should be checked prior to opening of financial bids. If on checking the bid
      security documents are found defective then the bidders bid documents should be returned unopened to
      the bidder. Those bidders who are found not qualified as per Bid Qualification requirement should be
      declared non responsive.
viii. The format of Bank Guarantee should be in accordance with RBI Directives.
ix. It is suggested that submission of a bid modification through separate letter should be strictly prohibited.
 x. The responsibility of arithmetic check should not fall to the Employer, but remain with the bidder. There
      is no disadvantage to either party by removing the arithmetic check clauses from the ITB because; by
      removing them, it will almost guarantee that the bidder submits an error-free bid and simplified method.
xi. A specific time limit for clarification process should be incorporated in the ITB within which a bidder fails
      to provide the required information, his bid should be considered non responsive.
xii. Position of Planning Engineer and Chief Quantity Surveyor should be included in the list of Contractor's
      key personnel. All key personnel should be employee of the main contractor.
xiii. For better co-ordination between work force and the contractor's engineering staff; position of senior
      foreman highway/structures should also be included in the list of contractor's key personnel.

 4.2.2.2 Conditions of Contract
   i. Since there are many commercial banks easily accessible for lending money to the contractor, it is
      recommendable to delete the clause for payment of mobilization advances. If the clause for mobilization
      advance cannot be deleted, alternatives are suggested in Annexure 3.
 ii. It is suggested that instead of full release of the BG that it is extended for an agreed "full completion"
      period for a reduced amount to cover the value of the outstanding works.
iii. The basic requirements to satisfy substantial completion should be defined in the documents.
iv. The submission of as-built drawings (COPA clause 6.6) should not be linked to the issue of the Taking-
      over certificate. It would be better to revise the wording of the clause to give a specific time limit, (e.g. 14
      days after issue of the Taking-over certificate) and specify remedies available to the Employer in case of
      non-compliance.
 v. It is suggested that the performance Bank Guarantee should be released on submission of approved as-
      built drawing.
vi. `As built drawings' should be submitted in the format/template as standardized by the Employer. The
      standard format/template should be uniformly applicable for the entire project duration. Such
      format/template should be part of bidding documents.
vii. New and improved codes and specifications developed in the Indian construction industry from time to
      time should reflect and incorporate the best practises. However if need be, the use of foreign codes
      should be permitted as a source of guidance in cases where Indian codes or specifications are found
      inadequate.
viii. Insurance agencies should be provided by contractors with well defined costing of Works to be insured,
      especially temporary works. Such mandatory provision shall be effected through COPA for the
      contractor to avoid any ambiguity with respect to temporary works damage valuation etc.

 International Competitive Bidding

ix. Where sectional completion is not stipulated, the liquidated damages are to be levied if the contractor
      fails to comply with the time for completion for the entire work, whereas, Clause 47.2 speaks for
      reduction of Liquidated damages. Its interpretation may be done in different manner. In order to avoid

                                                          48

       ambiguity and dispute this clause should be suitably modified so as convey the true intention of the
       clause or interpreted in right earnest manner in COPA.
  x. Under FIDIC conditions of contract and COPA, time limit is not prescribed for rectification of defects
       noted or identified during defect liability period. According to the Clause 49.4 in case of default at the
       part of the contractor in carrying out such instructions within a reasonable time the employer will rectify
       the defect at the risk and cost of the contractor. The reasonable time is very vague term. Because of this
       deficiency in contract conditions, the contractors often avoid timely rectification of defects causing
       inconvenience to the public. To avert such situation it is suggested to include the following provision in
       COPA.
       Every time notice of a defect is given, the contractor shall correct the notified defect within the length of
       time specified by the Engineer's notice
 xi. A definite time limit should be prescribed from the date of serving of notice to adjudicate the disputed
       matter to DRB/Adjudicator by any party to the actual date of making reference for adjudication.

  National Competitive Bidding

 xii. A condition should be included in GCC (NCB) which should mean as under: "The contractor will deploy
       at site only those key personnel who are approved by the `Engineer'. Non deployment of approved key
       personnel at work site would attract penalty as stated in contract data.
xiii. The Employer should be empowered to make recovery of a specified amount per person per month if
       the approved key personnel remains absent from the works site without valid reasons exceeding a
       period of 7 days in a month
xiv. According to Clause 38 the Engineer will adjust the rate of an item if its final quantity differs from the
       quantity stated in BOQ by more than 25% provided the change exceeds 1% of initial contract price. In
       order to adjust the rate the Engineer may ask the contractor for detailed cost break down of any item in
       the BOQ. Clear cut mechanism for adjusting the rate should be incorporated in the contract. Moreover
       the limit of change exceeds 1% is on lower end especially for maintenance nature of contract. It should
       be 10% for Road maintenance contracts.
 xv. If the contractor's quotation is unreasonable for variation item, the Engineer will make his own forecast
       of the effects of the variation on contractor's costs. Mechanism to forecast the effects on contractor's
       cost should be included in the contract.
xvi. According to Clause 47 Price Adjustment in 18 months contract time escalation is not allowed.
       Escalation should be applicable for government controlled items even for small contract.
xvii. According to Retention clause (Clause 48) during defect liability period only 50% of retention money in
       the form of bank guarantee remains with the Employer. Since the amount retained with the employer is
       not substantial therefore the contractor avoids timely correction of defects. Total amount of retention
       money (5% of the Actual cost of the project) should be retained with the employer during defect liability
       period. The refund should be made in phased manner according to the performance of contractor and
       response time taken by him in correcting the defects during defect liability period.
xviii. The GoG has already implemented e-procurement system for all kinds of works. This system should be
       applicable for Bank funded projects also. E- Procurement would also eliminate the practice of pooling by
       bidders before closing of bids.

  4.2.3    Suggestions for Improving Project Coordinating Consultant's Services
    i. Performance of design consultants/PCC should be monitored. The TOR/Agreement should incorporate
       suitable clauses for: (i) Quality assurance on Detailed Engineering designs included in DPR; (ii)
       Quality audit and safety audit on detailed engineering design carried out by the design consultant (ii)
       Responsibility for accuracy of design with economy/aesthetics; (iii) Disincentives and deterrent action for
       deficiency in designs and consultancy services; (iv) Performance appraisal report.
   ii. In contract for civil works and in construction supervision contracts the role and mandate of Project
       Coordinating Consultant needs to be defined clearly.
 iii. It may be desirable that the PCC is retained as the Supervision Consultant also. This will enable quick
       decision, early processing of design changes and ensure reduction in variations.
 iv. More than one design consultant should be engaged for Preparation of feasibility report and detailed
       engineering designs including DPR.

  4.2.4    Suggestions for Improving Supervision Consultant's services
    i. The make-up of staff with strong international experience and local staff should be more balanced if
       international consultants are to be employed otherwise the benefit of employing an international
       consultant is diminished.



                                                          49

 ii. Replacement staff must be equal in calibre to the outgoing incumbent and in place in a timely fashion.
     Such replaced person should be inducted only after approval by the client. The remuneration should be
     reduced to 90% for such replacement each time.
iii. Procedure for monitoring the performance of CSC should be evolved and incorporated in the TOR of
     CSC.
iv. It is suggested that consultant's personnel posted on site supervision works should belong to the regular
     establishment of the consulting firm.
 v. The entire onus of defending the matter before the arbitrator lies on the Employer. It is suggested that
     the CSC should be made responsible to provide his input till the arbitration process is over. A condition
     to this effect should be included in the terms reference of CSC services. The contract empowers CSC to
     take decision in respect of many aspects of exclusions without employer's concurrence. If any dispute
     arises, act of such decisions taken by engineer, onus of defending such disputes should entirely be on
     the CSC. If any extra payment results from disputes, CSC should be made to pay the same.
vi. Accountability and liabilities of CSC and PCC have not been clearly laid out in the TOR of services. The
     TOR should include this aspect also.
vii. In the event of emergencies such as floods, earthquake etc the CSC should play an active role in getting
     the project cleared from blockages etc and making the corridor traffic worthy through contractor. Such
     condition should be incorporated in the TOR of CSC.

4.2.5    Suggestions for Borrower's Effectiveness
  i. It would help in future works contracts to specify the role of the Divisional Offices and the limits of
     authority as delegated by the Chief Engineer. In other words the Employer's representatives and their
     respective authority should be clearly defined.
 ii. At the time of negotiations itself with Bank, the structure for Implementation Unit should be finalised
     along with importantly the line departments of GoG and their roles and responsibilities at different stages.
iii. Engineer's powers stated in the contract document should prevail the delegated powers.
iv. Government Auditors are not exposed with FIDIC contract conditions, before start of the project
     implementation; training shall be imparted to group of Auditors.
 v. During construction phase the Construction Supervision consultant is designated as Engineer and he &
     his team is actively involved in works execution. During this period the R&BD engineers have no active
     role to play. In order to transfer of technology it is suggested that the R&BD engineers should also be
     actively involved during construction supervision of work along with CSC. The Bank should evolve a
     system whereby the R&BD engineers are actively involved in construction supervision. This shall be
     agreed during the loan negotiation.

4.2.6    Suggestions to Bank
  i. Functions of Bank's mission should be clearly made known to the borrower.
 ii. For future projects Bank may consider the Annuity based mode of implementation besides normal EPC
     contracts.

5.       WAY FORWARD
With successful implementation of over 1700 km of state highways, the focus will be on proper O&M of such
road sections. Though this is specific to project roads in general but overall having scientific tools in
management of state road network in particular shall be top on agenda. With possible increase in funding,
reducing maintenance backlog and within budgetary constrains how best the road assets will be managed,
shall be directly looked into. Apart from this, the Policy and Planning Unit (PPU) established through GSHP
intervention shall continue to focus on mid term and long term planning and strategies. Already on the PPU
initiative, new State Highway Development Project (SHDP) conceived is on ground, project report
preparation towards BOT-Annuity implementation is underway. At the same time perusing with Updated
Strategic Options Study, state is in readiness to have GSHP-II as follow on project covering over 2200 Km of
Core roads.
Continuing with intent of proving better and quality infrastructure to community, R&BD-GoG shall attend for
following in short term:
     a) operation & maintenance of GSHP roads;
     b) implementation of Performance based maintenance contracts; and,
     c) beginning of Asset management through GRMS.




                                                        50

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(Not applicable)




                                    51

                  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Gujarat State Highways Project: Performance Assessment of Roads Under
    Periodic Maintenance Component RMC-1 and RMC-2. Government of Gujarat
    Roads and Building Department.

2.  Gujarat State Highways Project: Performance Assessment of Roads Under
    Periodic Maintenance Component RMC-3. Government of Gujarat Roads and
    Building Department. November, 2005.

3.  Gujarat State Highways Project: Performance Assessment of Roads Under
    Periodic Maintenance Component RMC-3. Government of Gujarat Roads and
    Building Department. December, 2007.

4.  Gujarat State Highways Project: Performance Assessment of Roads Under
    Widening and Strengthening Component. Government of Gujarat Roads and
    Building Department. December, 2007.

5.  Impact Assessment of Resettlement and Rehabilitation on Implementation of
    Resettlement Action Plan in Gujarat State Highways Project. Rural Development
    and Management Institute for Government of Gujarat Roads and Building
    Department. July, 2007.

6.  Impact Assessment of R&R Implementation, July 2007

7.  Project Appraisal Document, August 7, 2000

8.  Implementation Support Mission Aide-Memoires and Project Status Reports,
    Implementation Status Results and Reports.

9.  Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) Assessment Report.




                                      52

