                                                                                                             94922
Results Profile: Gujarat, India, Highway Improvements                                                     April 29, 2010




 OPENING INDIA’S RURAL HINTERLANDS

 Gujarat State Highway improvements revive region




Overview
Ten years ago, formerly fast-growing Gujarat Province faced economic decline; poor road
conditions were made worse by a growing number of vehicles on the roads, and growth
slowed.  But a highway project financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction helped
turn this rural area around by upgrading roads and maintenance. As a result, businesses
thrived, agricultural production increased, students and teachers attended school more easily
and frequently, and health improved as transport to and from Gujarat Province became faster
and safer.

  Full Brief—3 Pages
Opening the Rural Hinterlands-Gujarat State Highway—PDF, April 2010


Challenge
Although Gujarat has one of the most extensive road
                                                                      More Results
networks in India, its roads were clogged with traffic,
resulting in long travel times, high vehicle-operating costs

                                                                      10%
and low-quality service.  Road conditions were projected to
deteriorate further as transport demand doubled within 10
years and the number of vehicles increased.  In addition,
investment in the roads sector was insufficient and declining,        faster travel on India’s Gjuarat
                                                                      State Highway.
sector agencies had only limited capacity to build high-quality
road infrastructure on schedule, and funding for ongoing
maintenance of roads was inadequate, leading to a backlog
in road maintenance.
                                                                      MORE INFORMATION

                                                                       Roads and Building Department,
Approach                                                               Government of Gujarat, project
IBRD supported the Gujarat State Highway investment                    implementing agency
program with cumulative assistance of $280 million to date.            Wild Ass Sanctuary, UNESCO
The project focuses on widening and strengthening state                Heritage Site
highways; land acquisition, relocation and resettlement;
 periodic maintenance of state highways; design and
supervision of civil works contracts; and institutional               PARTNERS
strengthening, technical advice, training and equipment.  The
                                                                       Asian Development Bank
Government of Gujarat directly borrowed the IBRD funds
with a guarantee by the Government of India.                            Japanese Bank for International
                                                                       Cooperation

                                                                       Government of Gujarat (OFID)
Results
Road and maintenance improvements have given the public            
increased access to social, health, education, and economic
services. It’s estimated the project has increased
employment rates by 7 percent. Business output has improved due to the reduction of transport
bottlenecks and costs. Farmers are now able to make greater use of mechanized equipment for
cultivation and transport bulky products like fertilizer, seeds, and pesticides more easily to their
fields, increasing their profits. Industries also have easier access to raw materials, raising their
profitability.  Other results include:

       Improvement in 1,900 kilometers of roads between 2000 and 2007

       10 percent reduction in travel times

       20 percent increase in available funding for regular road maintenance

       16 percent fewer traffic accidents


Toward the Future
The Government of Gujarat is planning to initiate several related projects with its own funds.
The World Bank is carrying out a study (financed by a special trust fund set up jointly by the
World Bank and the UK Department for International Development) on the Gujarat project to
determine the key success factors for implementation and sustainability of institutional reforms
in the road/highway sector.  The World Bank plans to hold a workshop for all Indian states in
Gujarat and also a Global Development Learning Network event to share and disseminate the
findings of this study.

 


                                                     Last updated: 2010-04-29
