      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020044


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P120565                                                 AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Afghanistan                                             Health, Nutrition & Population



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-95919                                              14-Mar-2013                                                               17,900,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  23-Dec-2009                                           31-Dec-2014

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                       0.00                                                 17,650,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                        0.00                                                 17,520,641.50

  Actual                                                                    0.00                                                 17,520,641.50




 Sector(s)
 Health(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Health system performance(40%):Child health(30%):Population and reproductive health(30%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Katharina Ferl                      Judyth L. Twigg                      Joy Behrens                         IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project's objectives, as stated in the Financing Agreement of April 10, 2010 (p. 4), were “to improve the health and nutritional status of
    the people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children by increasing accessibility and quality of the Basic Package of Health
    Services (BPHS) in the provinces of Balkh and Samangan and urban Kabul.” This project did not have its own Project Appraisal Document,
    but instead was based on the Bank’s Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor (SHARP) project (P112446), whose objectives were
    “to contribute to improving the health and nutritional status of the people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children and
    underserved areas of the country" (Emergency Project Paper, February 18, 2009, p. 4). This project financed activities in three of the eleven
    provinces covered by the SHARP project. Based on standard IEG practice and OPCS guidelines, this review is based on the objective
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



     statement in the legal agreement.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project consisted of three components:
     Component 1: Sustaining and strengthening Basic Package of Health Service (BPHS) delivery in rural areas (appraisal estimate
     US$13.9 million, actual US$14.9 million, 107.1% of appraisal estimate): To finance the delivery of enhanced BPHS in the provinces of
     Balkh and Samangan, through sub-grants under performance-based partnership agreements (PPAs) between the Ministry of Public
     Health (MOPH) and implementing non-governmental organizations (NGOs); and to finance the expansion of health facilities by
     training community midwives and female community nurses.

     Component 2: Piloting BPHS implementation in urban Kabul (appraisal estimate US$3.5 million, actual US$2.37 million, 68% of
     appraisal estimate): For analytical work to define the content and delivery modalities of BPHS in urban areas, and for implementation of
     BPHS in urban Kabul (through a pilot project to be implemented by an NGO under a PPA).

     Component 3: Implementation and Management Support to Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) (appraisal estimate US$0.25
     million, actual US$0.25 million, 100% of appraisal estimate): To finance support to the MOPH for implementation, monitoring, and
     evaluation (M&E) of activities under the enhanced package of BPHS in the provinces of Balkh, Samangan, and urban Kabul.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$17.65 million. Actual cost was US$17.52 million (99.3% of appraisal estimate), with
     US$0.13 million undisbursed and therefore cancelled. The ICR does not explain why US$0.13 million remained undisbursed.

     Financing: The project was financed by a Japan Social Development Fund Grant in the amount of US$17.65 million. This project was
     part of a larger health/nutrition project, Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor (SHARP), financed by the International
     Development Agency (IDA), a Norwegian Trust Fund, the Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF), and the Afghanistan
     Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). The following activities were to be financed under SHARP: i) implementation of BPHS in the IDA-
     supported provinces, including retroactive financing for BPHS provision under a previous health project (IDA, JSDF, ARTF); ii) policy
     dialogue for BPHS (IDA); iii) support to MOPH, including the contracting of a third party for monitoring and evaluation (IDA and ARTF);
     and iv) a Results-Based Financing (RBF) pilot (Norwegian Trust Fund). The SHARP project’s financing requirements were estimated to
     be US$126 million (Emergency Project Paper, p. 8).

     Borrower Contribution: There was no planned contribution by the Borrower.

     Dates: The project was restructured three times:

          • March 13, 2013: closing date extended from March 14, 2013 to March 14, 2014, to allow for delays in procurement and in
          implementation of the urban Kabul component.
          • March 13, 2014: closing date extended from March 14, 2014 to September 15, 2014, to allow for: (i) continuing urban BPHS sub-
          grants; (ii) evaluating the urban BPHS pilot; and (iii) procuring and delivering equipment, drugs and other goods.
          • September 7, 2014; closing date extended from September 15, 2014 to December 31, 2014, to continue health services in urban
          Kabul until the MOPH finalized the next phase of support under the Bank’s current System Enhancement for Health Action in
          Transition Project (SEHAT). Also, this restructuring changed the implementation arrangements for urban Kabul BPHS to
          allow provision of services through public entities under the supervision of the MOPH instead of contracting out to NGOs as well as
          allow for consultant and training assistance to support this change. This restructuring also reallocated US$1 million from component 2
          (urban Kabul BPHS) to component 1 (BPHS in Balkh and Samangan).
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



   3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

   a. Relevance of Objectives

       High: The ICR noted progress in coverage of health services in the 10 years since the early 2000s, when Afghanistan was among the
       countries with the lowest coverage of preventive and curative health services. However, safety issues due to the ongoing conflict made the
       delivery of health services particularly challenging. The objectives of this project were highly relevant to the government’s Afghan National
       Development Strategy 2008, whose third pillar focuses on economic and social development, including improving human development and
       making progress towards the Millennium Development Goals. The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) developed a Basic Package of Health
       Services (BPHS) to integrate health-related nutrition interventions to address health problems. The BPHS, in addition to the Essential Package
       of Hospital Services (EPHS), were the cornerstones of the National Health and Nutrition Sector Strategy (HNSS) for 2008-2013. The
       objectives of this project were also in line with the HNSS, which aimed to: (i) reduce maternal and newborn mortality; (ii) reduce under-five
       mortality and improve child health; (iii) reduce the incidence of communicable diseases; (iv) reduce malnutrition; and (v) develop health
       systems. Also, the project was in line with the Bank’s most recent Interim Strategy Note for Afghanistan (ISN, 2012-2014), which focused on
       three strategic objectives: i) building the legitimacy and capacity of institutions: ii) equitable service delivery; and iii) inclusive growth and jobs.
       A main component of the equitable service delivery objective of the ISN was health, with focus on nutrition.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       Substantial: The planned activities were logically and plausibly linked to achievement of the project objectives and support for the government
       to improve the health and nutritional status of the population, especially of women and children. The BPHS included services for maternal and
       newborn health, child health and immunization, public nutrition, communicable disease treatment and control, mental health, disability services,
       and regular supply of essential drugs. Activities particularly focusing on maternal and child health included increasing access to nutrition-related
       services, antenatal care visits, coverage with three doses of the diphtheria/tetanus/pertussis vaccine (DPT3) among children between the ages
       of 12 and 23 months, births attended by skilled attendants, and access to a basic package of health, nutrition or reproductive health services.
       In 2010, the BPHS was revised to include additional interventions related to nutrition, mental health, disability, and prison health care.
       The project design was innovative and included performance-based service provision through NGOs in an environment with growing insecurity,
       and a pilot for the delivery of an urban health model in Kabul. The growing insecurity in the country was identified as an exogenous risk
       factor during project preparation, and the project addressed this challenge by using an independent third party for validation and performance
       measurement.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve the health status of the people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children by increasing accessibility and
     quality of the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) in the provinces of Balkh and Samangan and urban Kabul.

    Rationale
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



Although the ICR follows the project results framework in treating "Improved Health and Nutritional Status," "Increased Access," and
"Increased Quality" as outcomes, the project's primary objectives were improved health and nutritional status. These are considered to be
the objectives for purposes of this review. "Increased Access" to health services and "Increased Quality" are understood better as outputs
designed to lead to the outcome of "Improved Health and Nutritional Status."

The ICR reports on trends in relevant health and nutrition indicators over the project period. For the most part, data are reported for
Afghanistan as a whole.

The ICR does not provide information on specific activities that led to the outputs reported below. NGOs were supported to deliver the
BPHS. At the second restructuring, it was decided to implement the urban Kabul BPHS by direct service provision through public entities
under the supervision of the MOPH, rather than contracting out to NGOs.

The ICR does not provide health outcome data specifically for the three project provinces, nor does it discuss the extent to which the
reported national-level outcomes can be attributed to project-financed activities in the three provinces. Reported outputs for the three
project provinces (twenty-two indicators comprising the Balanced Score Card for the BPHS) indicate that relative performance in two of
these provinces fell dramatically during the project period (ICR, pp. 29-42): for Balkh, from 3rd among 33 provinces in 2011-2012 to 24th of
34 in 2012-2013; and for Samagan, from 8th in 2011-2012 to 33rd in 2012-2013. Relative performance in Kabul remained essentially
stagnant, from a ranking of 32nd in 2011-2012 to 29th in 2012-2013. As these results cover only one year, it is not possible to draw
meaningful conclusions from them. It is also not clear how these results relate to the ICR's information that the mean percentage score on
the national monitoring checklist for quality of services increased in Balkh from 77% in 2011 to 87% in 2014, and in Samangan from 82% in
2011 to 89% in 2014. Given these data, it is not clear that project-financed activities in these three provinces contributed significantly to the
national-level improvement in outputs or outcomes reported in the ICR. As a result, achievement of this objective is rated Modest.

Outputs (national-level data):

   • The percentage of the population that could reach the nearest health facility rose from 60% in 2006 to 88.4% in 2012. There was no
   target for this indicator; it was added by the ICR author because the original indicator could not be evaluated due to lack of comparable
   data.
   • The number of health consultations per person per year increased from 0.9 in 2009 to 1.84 in 2014, surpassing the target of 1.84.
   • The number of pregnant women receiving antenatal care during a visit to a health provider increased from 70,353 in 2009 to 127,440
   in 2014, surpassing the target of 119,127.
   • Births attended by skilled attendants increased from 18.9% in 2006 to 40% in 2014, surpassing the target of 28%.
   • Coverage of the diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine (three doses, DPT3) among children between 12 to 23 months of
   age increased from 34% (74,750 children) in 2009 to 46.7% (102,671) in 2013, not achieving the target of 60% (142,963 children).



Outputs (province-level data):

   • 11 of 12 proposed structural reforms for health facilities were completed in Balkh and Samangan provinces as of September 2014.
   • The mean percentage score on the national monitoring checklist for quality of services increased in Balkh from 77% in 2011 to 87% in
   2014, and in Samangan from 82% in 2011 to 89% in 2014.
   • In 2013, urban Kabul had 80 active health workers, not achieving the target of 660 health workers. This indicator did not have a
   baseline.
   • The number of outpatient visits in urban Kabul increased from 614,118 in 2011 to 829,517 in 2013, surpassing the targeted 10%
   increase from the baseline.
   • The number of institutional deliveries in urban Kabul increased from 5,081 in 2011 to 5,244 in 2013, not achieving the target of a 10%
   increase from the baseline.
   • The number of new users of contraceptives in urban Kabul increased from 23,408 in 2011 to 24,904 in 2013, not achieving the target
   of a 10% increase from the baseline.
   • The number of children below the age of one year in urban Kabul receiving DPT3 decreased from 54,803 in 2011 to 49,390 in 2013,
   not achieving the target of a 10% increase from the baseline.
   • The number of pregnant women receiving at least one antenatal care visit in urban Kabul decreased from 40,929 in 2011 to 35,916 in
   2013, not achieving the target of a 10% increase from the baseline.
   • Patient satisfaction with health facility visits in urban Kabul increased from 74% in 2011 to 87.9% in 2013, surpassing the target of a
   10% increase from the baseline.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



        • The equipment functionality index, which measures the presence of essential equipment in the health facility, decreased in urban
        Kabul from 69.6 in 2011 to 64.3 in 2013, not achieving the target of a 10% increase from the baseline.
        • The number of tuberculosis cases successfully treated in urban Kabul increased from 215 in 2011 to 319 in 2013, achieving the target
        of a 10% increase.
        • The drugs availability index, which measures the availability of essential drugs at health facilities, decreased in urban Kabul from 95%
        in 2011 to 92% in 2013, not achieving the targeted 10% increase from the baseline.



    Outcomes (national-level; no province-specific data reported):

        • The success rate for tuberculosis treatment increased from 85% in 2008 to 89% in 2014, almost achieving the target of 90%.
        • The score on a balanced score card assessing the quality of care in health facilities was 56 in 2014, not achieving the target of 60.
        • Between 2010 and 2013 the maternal mortality rate decreased from 500 to 400 deaths per 100,000 live births, and the under-five
        mortality rate decreased from 105 to 97 per 1,000 live births. These indicators were not included in the Results Framework, but were
        added by the ICR author.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To improve the nutritional status of the people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children by increasing accessibility and
     quality of the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) in the provinces of Balkh and Samangan and urban Kabul.

    Rationale
    The ICR does not contain specific information on achievement of outcomes specific to the provinces named in the PDO. The ICR (p. 13)
    states that it is likely that the project contributed to national-level nutrition outcomes, but it also acknowledges that large-scale reductions in
    malnutrition could be attributable to overall improvements in the country's socioeconomic status. The project team later provided additional
    information on nutrition activities and outcomes specific to Balkh and Samangan provinces, leading to a rating of Substantial for this
    objective.

    Outputs:
    The ICR does not provide information on specific outputs in Balkh or Samangan provinces. The ICR explains that NGOs were supported to
    deliver the BPHS, which included public nutrition as one of its seven critical elements, but the ICR does not contain further information
    on how the emphasis on nutrition was implemented.
    The project team later added the following information specific to Balkh and Samangan provinces:
     Balkh and Samangan provinces ( Based on HMIS)
                                                                        2010               2011               2012               2013
     Number of children screened for nutrition status                                                 395,6             484,5               488,8
                                                                        293,283            78                 84                 32
     Number of children with acute malnutrition                                                        22,9              36,8                30,6
                                                                        17,794             32                 28                 72

      number of children with severe acute malnutrition admitted          500                958                 627                 872
      number of children successfully treated                             365                740                 444                 765
      Percentage                                                          73%                77%                 71%                 88%

    In urban Kabul, the number of children below the age of five receiving nutrition screening decreased from 119.015 in 2011 to 115,370 in
    2013, not achieving the target of a 10% increase.

    Outcomes:
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



 The percentage of children nation-wide below the age of five with chronic malnutrition decreased from 60.5% in 2004 to 40.9% in 2013.
 This indicator was not included in the Results Framework and was added by the ICR author. The project team also added that, nation-
 wide, the percentage of children under six months of age who were exclusively breast-fed increased from 78% in 2008 to 80% I 2013.
 The additional data provided by the project team demonstrate that nutrition screening and treatment improved substantially in Balkh and
 Samangan provinces during the project period.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 Substantial: Neither the PAD nor the ICR included a traditional economic analysis. Instead, the ICR provides a qualitative analysis of
 international evidence of cost-effective health interventions. Most health services included in the BPHS have a cost-effectiveness ratio of
 US$100 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted, which can be seen as highly cost-effective. Also, in 2012 the MOPH conducted a
 cost analysis of the BPHS provided in all eleven provinces supported by the Bank under the SHARP project, estimating that the per capita
 expenditure for the BPHS ranged between US$1.44 and US$4.56, with an average of US$2.50, depending on whether the services were
 delivered in a district hospital or health sub-center. A study conducted in 2006-2007, which focused on different provinces mainly supported
 by USAID, estimated the average per capita cost of the BPHS in USAID-supported provinces at US$3.78, higher than for those supported by
 the Bank. This differential could be related to NGO contracts being set at the provincial level rather than contracts that support lower
 aggregates of the population.

 The BPHS interventions were delivered by health workers, nurses, and midwives, providing for effective delivery of services at lower cost than
 by physicians (ICR, p. 43). Also, the project’s interventions covered most of the disease burden in the country, and the supported delivery
 modes were among the least expensive alternatives and most accessible to the poor.

 However, there were minor shortcomings. The procurement for the recruitment of NGOs experienced delays, as the government did not allow
 the renewal of contracts with performing NGOs under the previous project; according to the project team, however, these delays did not
 interrupt service delivery. Also, the procurement process for the Kabul pilot was lengthy and inefficient, leading to implementation delays
 and extension of the project closing date by 1.5 years. The security situation in Afghanistan was, of course, extremely challenging.

 Taking into account the cost-effectiveness of the BPHS and its delivery, Efficiency is rated Substantial.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objectives is rated High, given the health sector challenges Afghanistan was facing. Relevance of design is rated Substantial,
given the logical link of planned project activities to expected outcomes. Achievement of the objective to improve the health status of the people
of Afghanistan, with greater focus on women and children, is rated Modest due to lack of outcome data specific to Balkh and Samangan
provinces, where the project was implemented. Achievement of the objective to improve nutritional status is rated Substantial, based on results
related to nutrition activities and outcomes in Balkh and Samangan provinces. Efficiency is rated Substantial due to the cost-effectiveness of the
Basic Package of Health Services and its delivery. This review of the ICR suggests moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and
implementation, and therefore the Outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Substantial: The security situation in Afghanistan remains volatile, which impedes hiring qualified staff and providing services. Also, the
provision of health services is highly dependent on donor financing. Although external financial support will likely continue to be available in the
medium term, eventually the government may have to mobilize its own resources. The Afghan health care system continues to lack health-
facility capacity as well as stewardship capacity, both of which can adversely affect health services. Continued efforts to build capacity are critical
to ensure the sustainability of already-made investments. Furthermore, operational (bureaucratic) procedures intended to ensure transparency
have prolonged processes and potentially created delays that can hamper continuous implementation of activities and thus erode sustainability.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The ICR (pp. 19-20) notes that the Bank team successfully prepared an Emergency Project and effectively used convening power to bring
     donors together. The project incorporated lessons learned from other Bank projects and experience from the Bank’s previous engagement in
     Afghanistan’s health sector. Those lessons included: i) the BPHS contributes to improving health outcomes and has a strong pro-poor focus;
     (ii) contracting with NGOs for delivery of services is a successful approach partly due to NGOs' flexibility, creativity, and ability to address
     identified problems; (iii) investing in M&E systems is critical for identifying and solving challenges, tracking progress, and obtaining evidence
     to design policies; (iv) testing new approaches in pilots and evaluating them carefully is an effective way of moving the health sector forward;
     (v) hiring local consultants to the MOPH that are competitively recruited and paid market salaries is important so that the Ministry can
     effectively carry out its stewardship function; and (vi) activities such as training midwives will have greater impact if expanded.

     The Bank identified relevant risk factors such as the country’s overall inherent risk and growing insecurity, disrupting the delivery of services in
     certain areas as well as hampering monitoring and evaluation of activities. Additional identified risk factors were corruption, improper financial
     management, limited procurement capacity leading to delays in contracting of NGOs and the M&E agency, limited evaluation skills (especially
     for pharmaceutical goods) hampering the procurement process, and planned external funding not materializing as expected and the program
     therefore remaining partially unfunded. {The ICR notes that} the Bank put adequate mitigation efforts in place.

     However, the project's Results Framework did not include any indicator(s) on nutrition outcomes, and no plan was made to track outcome
     data specific to the provinces intended to be the focus of the project. These two omissions constituted significant shortcomings, and therefore
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



   Quality-at-Entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. According to the project team, the MOPH decision not to track province-specific outcome
   data was based on the anticipated high cost anticipated of collecting these data. Without province-specific data, however, observation of
   relevant outcomes is very challenging.




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The Bank conducted regular, bi-annual supervision missions in cooperation with the SHARP project. Implementation status reports were
   prepared in a timely manner and included information on implementation progress, challenges, and necessary actions.

   At the beginning of the project, supervision focused primarily on operational issues such as contracting NGOs, while at a later stage the focus
   moved towards results, policies, and development issues. The Bank team ensured continuous provision of the basic health care package while
   transitioning to a follow-on project, the System Enhancement for Health Action in Transition Project (SEHAT).

   The Bank team successfully restructured the project three times (see Section 2d). However, the Bank did not use any of the restructurings as
   an opportunity to add an indicator on nutrition outcomes in the project’s Results Framework, or to add provisions for collecting outcome data
   specific to project provinces. Also, the Bank did not sufficiently ensure successful implementation of the Environmental and Social
   Management Framework for safeguards (see Section 11a). Overall, these are considered significant shortcomings, and therefore Quality of
   Supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.




   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The ICR (p. 21) indicates that the government demonstrated commitment to achieving the project’s development objectives. The MOPH
   realigned its strategies, structure, and implementation modalities to create a supportive environment. Also, the MOPH coordinated between
   development partners to ensure the alignment of funds and efforts.

   However, the Environmental and Social Management Framework for safeguards was not fully implemented, as the MOPH was not clear on
   whose responsibility it was to do so. In addition, the project experienced delays in procurement due to the government’s lengthy
   procurement procedures and its lack of capacity to move the process forward. These moderate shortcomings lead to a Government
   Performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory.




   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project had several Implementing Agencies, with an average performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

   Strengthening Mechanism (SM) and Kabul Provincial Public Heath Directorate (KPPHD): Moderately Unsatisfactory
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



  It was planned that project activities for urban Kabul were to be implemented by various NGOs. At the second restructuring, the MOPH
  assigned this responsibility to KPPHD with the support of the SM. The SM is an approach for the implementation of BPHS by the MOPH
  where services are delivered directly by the MOPH in three provinces (Parwan, Panjsher and Kapisa) and urban Kabul. There is a central
  unit (MOPH-SM office) staffed with skilled professionals (local consultants recruited on market rates) headed by a senior official. This unit
  provides management and supervision support to the Provincial Health Officers, who are responsible for day-to-day implementation. It also
  coordinates and takes the lead in working with the Bank.

  While the SM was supposed to be providing only technical and coordination support, its responsibilities increased due to KPPHD's lack
  of implementation capacity and political authority. However, insufficient coordination between the SM and KPPHD and high leadership
  turnover in both entities had a negative impact on data reporting and supervision at the facility level. Even though coordination improved
  by the end of the project, KPPHD made logistical improvements, sub-committee meetings took place on a more regular basis, and a
  training for provincial health offices on important BPHS topics and project management was implemented, there was a lack of
  accountability and effective communication between these two entities.

  Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA) and Afghan Center for Training and Development (ACTD): Moderately Satisfactory

  SCA and ACTD implemented the BPHS in Samangan as joint ventures. SCA was responsible for 60% and ACTD for 40% of project
  implementation in this province. This partnership worked well and apparently did not experience coordination issues. The SCA provided
  appropriate leadership, and ACTD delivered its outputs as envisaged. In addition to project activities, NGOs implemented additional
  activities such as renovating health centers, building staff quarters, providing daycare for children of female staff, etc. However, no
  mechanism was implemented to ensure the sustainability of these activities once the NGOs' contracts ended, with a potentially negative
  impact on the new NGO that was contracted under the follow-on SEHAT project.

  Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance (CHA): Satisfactory

  The CHA was experienced in implementing projects in Afghanistan and was responsible for delivering services in the province of Balkh.
  CHA had motivated staff who professionally dealt with local political leadership and changing security situations. CHA also provided
  valuable inputs on how to improve the implementation of future projects across the province.




  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  The objectives were clearly specified (improved and nutritional status), but the project's key indicators tracked primarily output rather than
  outcome data. The objective to improve the nutritional status of the population was not reflected in the indicators at all, and there were no
  provisions for collecting outcome-level data specific to the project provinces. The Results Framework included three PDO indicators and four
  intermediate outcome indicators. These indicators were measurable in terms of numbers and timing at the national level. The Urban Kabul
  BPHS had its own 14 output indicators. It was a significant weakness that there were no outcome data specific to the provinces covered by the
  project, as this shortcoming made it impossible to assess achievement of the project's objectives.

  M&E activities were carried out by the MOPH under the SHARP project, which also conducted three health facility assessments, a national
  household survey, and two Results-Based Financing surveys.

  The ICR author added one PDO indicator to measure chronic malnutrition of children under five years of age, and an intermediate outcome
  indicator on the mean percentage score on the national monitoring checklist for quality of services (the original indicator on the balanced score
  card could no longer be used because the methodology for data collection was changed during the project period).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)




b. M&E Implementation
   Indicators in the Results Framework were measured on a regular basis through two different mechanisms. Since the project co-financed the
   International Development Agency/Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund grants under the SHARP project, which covered in total 11
   provinces plus urban Kabul, a third-party firm was contracted for all M&E activities of the project, including conducting annual health facility
   assessments and household surveys and verification of Health Management Information System (HMIS) data. Given the independent nature
   of the third party, the data were mostly reliable. For example, the Balanced Score Report generated by the third party was the main reliable
   tool for the MOPH decision making process. The HMIS was another important source of data for project monitoring. The HMIS produced
   mostly information on health services utilization in each of the health facilities. Since the HMIS is a self-reporting system, it had limitations.
   However, the data were verified by the third party. Overall, the majority of data were reasonably reliable and of satisfactory quality in the
   given context.

   However, the implementation of M&E also faced a challenge in that there was no information from health facility surveys that was comparable
   across the project period, since the survey tool was revised in 2010. It was planned that Johns Hopkins University would carry out a baseline
   survey, but that was cancelled to avoid duplication with a planned UNICEF Multi-Index Cluster Survey (MICS) for the same year. However,
   the MICS was not finished in 2010 and had to be completed in 2011.

   Of the 14 indicators for the Kabul pilot, data for 11 indicators were available. In December 2014, an evaluation of the pilot was completed and
   achievement of objectives, key results, and lessons learned was assessed.




c. M&E Utilization
   M&E was utilized to assess performance. For example, when M&E found that performance was stagnant, supervision and monitoring were
   enhanced. Data were also used to analyze the situation and development of national policy and strategic papers.

   A Results-Based-Financing pilot, which was implemented in two provinces under this project, included a data audit of a sample of health
   care facilities in combination with community verification of patients who had received services according to provider records. According to
   the NGOs participating in the pilot, these activities had a positive impact on the improvement of the quality of reporting.

   The MOPH monitored and evaluated the urban Kabul BPHS pilot through the 11 indicators for which data were available. Targets were set at
   a more or less constant 10% increase, similar as to what was done for the health metrics of the entire country. However, while it was easy to
   achieve the target for some indicators, it represented a challenge for others. In December 2014, the pilot’s achievement of proposed
   objectives, key results, and lessons learned was assessed.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The Project was classified as environmental category “B”. An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was developed
   and disclosed. According to a legal covenant in the grant agreement, the MOPH had to prepare a comprehensive bio-medical waste
   management plan in the first four to six months after project effectiveness. Even though the plan was prepared, its implementation was not
   fully completed, as the MOPH was not clear on who should implement the plan. While the plan was prepared by the Directorate of Policy
   and Planning and the Directorate of Health Economics and Financing, it was to be implemented by the Directorate of Preventive Medicine.
   Therefore, there was limited compliance with the safeguards plans. No designated safeguards focal officer was hired as planned, and the
   unit responsible for the implementation of the ESMF left implementation to the services delivery unit and did not provide any technical
   leadership or oversight.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)




   Environmental Safeguards:
   Participating health facilities applied outdated waste management procedures. Sharps and other medical waste were not consistently
   separated at the place of generation, or if this was done, no color coding and proper follow up took place. Also, medical waste was often
   mixed with municipal waste, particularly in urban areas.

   Social Safeguards:
   It was planned that local community development councils would be involved in the selection process for community health workers.
   However, this was not the case in practice, and therefore the local community development councils provided little support to the
   community health workers program.

   A complaint handling system was implemented at health care facilities. However, its scope and reach was limited, and no records of
   complaints were kept.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management
   The finance department within the MOPH was responsible for the financial management of the project. It was equipped with sufficient staff,
   consisting of consultants who were hired exclusively for this project due to weak financial management capacity within the civil service.

   External audits were conducted by the Supreme Audit Office of Afghanistan on an annual basis. The audited financial statements were
   submitted in a timely manner. The audit opinion was unqualified for the last two audits with no critical issues. All prior year management letter
   observations were satisfactorily resolved.

   Interim financial reports were submitted on a quarterly basis, sometimes with delays due to the difficulty of consolidating information on financial,
   procurement, and physical progress. Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly and on time except for fiscal year 2012. All
   identified internal control issues were resolved by the MOPH satisfactorily. No internal audit reports were conducted due to weak capacity in the
   internal audit department of the MOPH. The flow of funds was mainly on time, and the project only experienced some delay at the beginning of
   the fiscal year due to the late approval of the new budget.

   Procurement
   The procurement directorate within the MOPH was responsible for the procurement of goods and works and was supported by the Afghanistan
   Development and Reconstruction Services for SHARP. Consultancy Services were procured by the Grants and Contract Management Unit
   within the MOPH. The procurement rating for the project was Moderately Satisfactory throughout most of the implementation period, except in
   the first year when it was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory due to long delays in the procurement of NGO services for the BPHS.

   The procurement process of the urban Kabul pilot experienced several challenges and delays. Delays were due to a lack of procurement
   capacity within the government, weak management by the Kabul Provincial Public Health Directorate, complex procurement laws, and lengthy
   approval processes. The project tried to procure goods through the government, which took over a year, and UNICEF, which also presented
   challenges. Essential medicines ended up being borrowed in-kind to urban health facilities from the MOPH through the Kabul Provincial Public
   Health Directorate. Before the project closed, the procurement process was completed.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
    ---
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                     Reason for
Ratings                                    ICR                                   IEG
                                                                                                                     Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                     High relevance of objectives and
                                                                                                                     substantial relevance of design.
                                                                                                                     The achievement of the nutrition
                                                                                                                     objective was substantial, but
Outcome                                    Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory              achievement of the health
                                                                                                                     objective is rated modest due to
                                                                                                                     lack of outcome data at the
                                                                                                                     province level. Efficiency was
                                                                                                                     substantial.
Risk to Development Outcome                Substantial                          Substantial                          ---
                                                                                                                     The M&E framework did not
                                                                                                                     provide for collection of outcome
                                                                                                                     data specific to the project
Bank Performance                           Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                     provinces, and there was
                                                                                                                     inadequate attention to safeguard
                                                                                                                     policies.
Borrower Performance                       Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              ---
Quality of ICR                                                                  Modest                               ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons


   • Contracting out services to NGOs instead of providing health services through the government might provide flexibility and agility
   necessary for project implementation in a challenging environment. In this project, the NGOs operating in rural settings were much more
   successful than the SM-KPPHD management structure in the Kabul pilot. While the government is responsible for oversight, stewardship and
   coordination, NGOs might have better abilities to operate in the field.




   • Providing a low-cost package of health services, contracting out services to NGOs, and collaborating closely with the government and
   development partners while gradually strengthening the government’s stewardship and service provision role is a good approach for health
   system strengthening in fragile and post-conflict countries.




   • It is critical for the assessment of a project to include indicators relevant to all of the project's objectives, and to collect data on those
   outcome indicators specific to the project's geographical areas.




14. Assessment Recommended?
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AF: Support Basic Pkg. Health Services (P120565)



No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR


The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation and is consistent in its analysis. Also, the ICR provides additional
indicators that were not included in the Results Framework to measure achievement of the project objective on nutritional status. However, it is
a significant analytical shortcoming that the ICR does not report project outputs or outcomes for the provinces specific to the project and does
not discuss the attribution questions raised by this missing information. With this omission, attribution of observed national-level outcomes to
project interventions is challenging. Given this significant shortcoming, the ICR's quality is rated Modest.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Modest
