                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                        Report No: ICR00003506




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                                           ON


                              JSDF GRANT NO. TF095919


                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.65 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                         FOR A

         SUPPORT TO BASIC PACKAGE OF HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT




                                   September 25, 2015




Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice
South Asia Region
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHS      Afghanistan Health Survey
ACTD     Afghan Center for Training & Development
AIMS     Afghan Information Management System
AMS      Afghanistan Mortality Survey
ARI      Acute Respiratory Infection
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
BHC      Basic Health Center
BPHS     Basic Package of Health Services
BSC      Balanced Score Card
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CHA      Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance
CHC      Comprehensive Health Center
CHW      Community Health Worker
CMW      Community Midwife
CN       Community Nurse
DALY     Disability Adjusted Life Year
DH       District Hospital
DPT3     Diphtheria, Tetanus and Pertussis vaccine (3 Doses)
EPI      Expanded Program on Immunization
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Management Report
GCMU     Grants and Contracts Management Unit
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HMIS     Health Management Information System
HF       Health Facility
HNSS     Health and Nutrition Sector Strategy
HSERDP   Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction & Development Project
ICRC     International Committee of the Red Cross
IMCI     Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
JHU      Johns Hopkins University
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
KPPHD    Kabul Provincial Public Health Directorate
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MICS     Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MOPH     Ministry of Public Health
NA       Not Available
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NRVA     National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment
OPV3     Oral Polio Vaccine (3 Doses)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PHD      Provincial Health Director
PHO      Provincial Health Office
PPA      Performance-Based Partnership Agreement
PRR      Priority Reform and Restructuring
RBF      Result-based financing
SCA      Swedish Committee for Afghanistan
SEHAT    System Enhancement for Health Action in Transition Project
SHARP    Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor Project
SM       Strengthening Mechanism
TB       Tuberculosis
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WHO      World Health Organization
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund




                              Vice President:   Annette Dixon
                           Country Director:    Robert J. Saum
                           Practice Manager:    Rekha Menon
                Project & ICR Team Leader:      Mohammad Tawab Hashemi
                                 ICR Author:    Amr Elshalakani
                                      AFGHANISTAN
                  Support to Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) Project



                                                         CONTENTS



Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph


  1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1 
  2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5 
  3.  Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12 
  4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Rating: High) ................................ 19 
  5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19 
  6.  Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23 
  7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 28 
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 43 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 47 
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................ 48 
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 56 
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 57 
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 64 
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 67 
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 68
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Afghanistan - Support
                                                                               to Basic Package of
Country:                Afghanistan                  Project Name:             Health Services
                                                                               (Strengthening Health
                                                                               Activity for Rural Poor)
Project ID:             P120565                      L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-95919
ICR Date:               09/04/2015                   ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                          Grantee:
                                                                               OF AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 17.65M                   Disbursed Amount:         USD 17.52M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 17.52M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Health, Afghanistan
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                 Process              Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:                           Effectiveness:                                03/14/2010
                                                                                        03/13/2013
Appraisal:                                Restructuring(s):                             03/13/2014
                                                                                        09/07/2014
Approval:              12/23/2009         Mid-term Review:           06/30/2011         10/04/2011
                                                                                        3/14/2014
                                          Closing:                   03/14/2013         9/15/2014
                                                                                        12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         Substantial
Bank Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Satisfactory         Government:                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                   any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                  100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                             30                  30
Health system performance                                                40                  40
Population and reproductive health                                       30                  30

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Annette Dixon                        Isabel Guerrero
Country Director:            Robert J. Saum                       Nicholas Kraftt
Practice
                             Albertus Voetberg                    Julie McLaughlin
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:         Mohammad Tawab Hashemi               Inaam Ul Haq
ICR Team Leader:             Mohammad Tawab Hashemi
                             Amr Mostafa Hanafy Mohamm
ICR Primary Author:
                             Elshalakani
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to improve the health and nutritional status of the people of Afghanistan, with a
greater focus on women and children by increasing accessibility and quality of the Basic
Package of Health Services (BPHS) in the provinces of Balkh, Samangan and in urban Kabul.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                            Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Pregnant women receiving antenatal care during a visit to a health provider
Value
quantitative or   70,353                    119,127                           127,440
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                04/14/2013                        12/04/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Based on AHS 2014 Survey Original Indicator
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     DPT3 coverage among children 12-23 months
Value
quantitative or   34% (74,750)              60% (142,963)                     46.7% (102,671)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                04/14/2013                        05/25/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved. Based on AHS 2014, Original Indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of consultations per person per year
Value
quantitative or   0.9                       1.4                               1.84
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                04/14/2013                        12/08/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Surpassed. HMIS 2014. Original Indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     % children below 5 y with Chronic Malnutrition (National Average)
Value
quantitative or   60.5%                                                       40.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2004                                                           2013
Comments          Achieved. National Nutrition Surveys 2004 and 2013. This indicator was added
(incl. %          by ICR author to reflect status of nutrition. No breakdown for Balkh, Samangan
achievement)      and urban Kabul.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                           Target Years
                People with access to a basic package of health, nutrition, or reproductive health
Indicator 1 :
                services
Value
(quantitative   4,671,600                   5,062,917                           Not evaluable
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2009                    04/14/2013                          05/25/2014
                Not evaluable. Due to unavailability of comparable data for measuring the
                progress in access to health services, this ICR uses another indicator for measuring
                physical access -“People with access to health services with two hours distance by
Comments
                any means of transport”. The data for this indicator shows remarkable progress in
(incl. %
                access to health services between 2006 and 2012 at the national level. According
achievement)
                to the NRVA 2012, 88.4% of the population can reach the nearest health facility
                within two hours. The corresponding overall figure reported in AHS 2006 was
                only 60%.
Indicator 2 : Births attended by skilled attendants
Value
(quantitative   18.9%                       28%                                 40%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    04/14/2013                          05/25/2014
Comments
                Surpassed. NRVA 2011/2012. Baseline based on CSO statistics. Original
(incl. %
                Indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : TB Treatment Success Rate
Value
(quantitative   85%                         90%                                 89%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                    04/14/2013                          12/08/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. HMIS 2014 (percentage). Original Indicator
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Score on the balanced scorecard examining quality of care in health facilities.
Value
(quantitative   70                          60                                  56
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    04/14/2013                          03/31/2013
Comments        Not evaluable. Balanced scorecard was revised and updated in 2010/11. Hence
(incl. %        scores of 2011/12 and 2012/13 are not comparable with baseline. The actual
achievement) performance was 56 according to BSC 2013. Original Indicator.
Indicator 5 : Mean % Score on the National Monitoring Checklist for quality of services
Value
                Balkh 77%                                                       Balkh 87%
(quantitative
                Samangan 82%                                                    Samangan 89%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   01/01/2011                                                  12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Surpassed. National Monitoring Checklist. Indicator added at the ICR.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/22/2010         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       8.04
  2    06/15/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              12.71
  3    04/09/2012         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     14.51
  4    11/12/2012         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              17.00
  5    06/25/2013         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              17.00
  6    01/15/2014         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              17.00
  7    08/02/2014     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              17.00
  8    12/16/2014     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              17.45


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                    Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                          Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                                The Closing Date was extended
                                                                by one year from March 14,
                                                                2013 to March 14, 2014. This
  03/13/2013          N           S      MS           17.00
                                                                was due to delays in the startup
                                                                and procurement for the urban
                                                                Kabul BPHS pilot component.
                                                                The Closing Date was extended
                                                                by an additional six months from
                                                                March 14, 2014 to September
                                                                15, 2014. This was to allow for:
                                                                (i) the continuation of urban
                                                                BPHS sub-grants; (ii) the
                                                                evaluation of the urban Kabul
  03/13/2014          N           S      MS           17.00
                                                                BPHS pilot to assess the
                                                                achievement of proposed
                                                                objectives, key results and
                                                                lessons learned; and (iii)
                                                                ensuring the procurement and
                                                                delivery of equipment, drugs and
                                                                other goods
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                       (i) Change in Closing Date from
                                                       September 15, 2014 to
                                                       December 31, 2014
                                                       (ii) Reallocation of Grant
                                                       proceeds due to the change in
  09/07/2014       N       MS     MS        17.00      implementation modality for
                                                       urban Kabul BPHS pilot
                                                       (iii) Change to Components and
                                                       Cost
                                                       (iv) Change in Institutional
                                                       Arrangements.




I. Disbursement Profile
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.    In the early 2000s, Afghanistan’s health system was functioning poorly. The coverage
of preventive and curative health services was among the lowest worldwide. A Multiple
Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) carried out by UNICEF in 2003 found skilled birth
attendance and prenatal care coverage at 5% and vaccination coverage (DPT3) at 19.5%.
The situation was particularly dire in rural communities where, for example in rural
Badakshan, the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) (6,507 deaths per 100,000 live births) was
nearly ten times higher than the average for low income countries. However, by the mid/late
2000s, the Afghan health system had made considerable progress. Data from the health
management information system (HMIS) indicated that outpatient visits per person per
annum increased from 0.3 in 2005 to 0.8 in 2008 and to 1.7 in 2013. Administrative data
indicated that the number of functioning primary health care facilities increased from 498 in
2002 to 1,157 in 2007 (a 132% increase) and the proportion of facilities with skilled female
health workers increased from 25% in 2002 to 82% in 2007.

2.    Despite some progress in quality of care and coverage in the last decade, nutritional
problems and outcomes remained a major challenge for Afghans. There was few nutrition
health related services being delivered and no nutrition sensitive intervention implemented
in other sectors which could affect nutrition outcomes. The National Nutritional Survey 2004
carried out by UNICEF highlighted that 60.5% of children under 5 suffered from chronic
malnutrition; iron deficiency anemia in the same age group was 71.5%, and under-nutrition
in women aged 15-49 years was as high as 20.9%.

3.    Afghanistan has remained extremely insecure due to ongoing conflict over the last five
years, with severe consequences for the health sector. In 2009-2011, 12 health workers lost
their lives in the insecure southern province of Helmand; female staff have been threatened
by radical groups; and some facilities have become inaccessible due to physical risk for both
health facility staff and patients. In recognition of the persistent violence, a flexible approach
was therefore needed to deliver health services. In order to deliver services in insecure areas,
the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) has worked with non-government implementing
partners to successfully pilot various innovations, including community involvement in
supervision of health services; and supply driven interventions (e.g., bonuses and other
incentives for health staff).

4.    The government laid out a clear vision with a well-developed strategy for the health
sector. One of the three pillars of the Afghan National Development Strategy 2008 (ANDS)
was economic and social development, which includes improving human development
indicators and making significant progress towards the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). The MOPH developed the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) to integrate
health-related nutrition interventions in an effort to tackle some of the problems in the health
sector. The government aimed to expand coverage of the BPHS to at least 90 percent of the
population by 2010. BPHS was the cornerstone of the 2008-2013 National Health and
Nutrition Sector Strategy (HNSS), which defined the objectives for the sector, identified the

                                                1
BPHS as well as the Essential Package of Hospital Services (EPHS) as the main priorities
for service delivery, and created a framework for donor financing.

5.    The MOPH was recognized as one of the most effective Afghan ministries due to its
clear-minded leadership and highly skilled human resources. The MOPH had assumed its
stewardship role by setting policy and provision standards, contracting out services through
NGOs, coordinating donors, etc. MOPH benefited from long-term technical assistance and
financial support for critical units (e.g., Grant Contract Management Unit, GCMU), where
staff were hired on a contractual basis. However, continued technical assistance and support
was required to further strengthen the stewardship role of MOPH.

6.    The Support to a Basic Package of Health Services Project, funded by the Japan Social
Development Fund (JSDF), was part of a wider effort by development partners to support
the NHSS, and included financing of the Strengthening Health Services for the Rural Poor
(SHARP) Project that supported the delivery of the BPHS in eleven provinces. Moreover,
the SHARP and the JSDF financed project need to be seen as part of the continuing strategy
of assistance to the health sector, previously supported under the World Bank-financed
Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project (HSERDP), in the
amount of US$110.1 million. That project closed on June 30, 2009 with an IEG rating of
Satisfactory. SHARP, which closed on September 30, 2013 with an IEG rating of Moderately
Satisfactory, was financed using IDA funds, the Afghanistan Health Reconstruction Trust
Fund (ARTF), and Health Results Innovation Trust Fund resources in the amount of US$137
million. The JSDF financed Project co-financed SHARP by supporting BPHS in three of the
eleven provinces (Balkh, Samangan and urban Kabul provinces) and helped to sustain the
successes of HSEDRP project. The JSDF financed Project played a role in ensuring that the
transition from HSERDP to SHARP was smooth and offers a lesson to other operations in
post-conflict countries.

7.    The JSDF financed Project also yielded important lessons for the design of the System
Enhancement for Health Action in Transition (SEHAT) Project, which was approved on
February 28, 2013. SEHAT is a nationwide program which finances the implementation of
the BPHS and EPHS to the entire country, through contracting-out and contracting-in
arrangements both in rural and urban areas in 34 provinces. The project also supports
strengthening the national health system and MOPH’s capacity at central and provincial
levels, so it can effectively perform its stewardship functions in the sector. The total financial
envelope of SEHAT is US$654 million, of which IDA financing is US$100 million
equivalent.

1.2 Original Project (Grant) Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.    The project development objective (PDO) was to improve the health and nutritional
status of the people of Afghanistan, with a greater focus on women and children by increasing
accessibility and quality of BPHS in the provinces of Balkh, Samangan, and in urban Kabul.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

                                                2
9.   The PDO was not changed. The Results Framework was not modified.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10. The project aimed to cover the provinces of Balkh, Samangan and urban Kabul. The
total population size to be covered by the grant was estimated at approximately 5.06 million
people. The provinces selected for the project exhibited high poverty rates. All three
provinces showed poverty rates in excess of 20%. In Balkh and Samangan, the poverty rate
reached 60% and 55%, respectively (2008). The major beneficiaries of the project were to
be children under age 5 and women of reproductive age. Owing to the content of the BPHS
package, the grant funds were to be heavily targeted to maternal and child health activities.
The targeted beneficiary profile of the project made it very pro-poor and served to achieve
the MDGs. Other beneficiaries of the project included MOPH staff, community health
workers, and the staff of the provincial health offices (PHO) who were to receive training to
enhance their performance and strengthen their stewardship capacities.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Sustaining and Strengthening BPHS Delivery in Rural Areas (US$13.9
million; 79% of total project cost)

11. This component aimed to: (a) finance the delivery of an enhanced package of BPHS in
the provinces of Balkh and Samangan through the provision of sub-grants under the
Performance-Based Partnership Agreement (PPA) between the MOPH and implementing
NGOs; and (b) support the expansion of health facilities, particularly sub-centers, though,
inter alia, the provision of training to additional community midwives and female community
nurses.

Component 2: Piloting BPHS Implementation in Urban Kabul (US$3.5 million; 20% of total
project cost)

12. This component aimed to: (a) finance the technical and analytical work to define the
content and delivery modalities of BPHS in urban areas; and (b) support the implementation
of BPHS in urban Kabul through a pilot project to be implemented by an NGO engaged by
MOPH under a PPA.

Component 3: Implementation and Management Support to MOPH (US$0.25 million; 1% of
total project cost)

13. This component aimed to provide implementation and management support to the
MOPH through financing operational costs of MOPH relating to the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of activities under the enhanced package of BPHS in the provinces
of Balkh, Samangan and urban Kabul.


1.6 Revised Components

                                             3
14. With the exception of the change in implementation modality for Component 2, the
components were not revised. (See section 1.7.)

1.7    Other significant changes

15.      This project underwent three Level 2 restructurings during its lifetime, as follows:

16. Restructuring #1 (approved 03/13/2013): The Closing Date was extended by one year
from March 14, 2013 to March 14, 2014. This was due to delays in the startup and
procurement for the urban Kabul component.

17. Restructuring #2 (approved 03/13/2014): The Closing Date was extended by an
additional six months from March 14, 2014 to September 15, 2014. This was to allow for:
(i) the continuation of urban BPHS sub-grants; (ii) the evaluation of the urban BPHS pilot to
assess the achievement of proposed objectives, key results and lessons learned; and (iii)
ensuring the procurement and delivery of equipment, drugs and other goods.

18.      Restructuring #3 (approved 09/07/2014): The following changes took place:

        i.   Extension of Closing Date from September 15, 2014 to December 31, 2014: This
             extension was made in order to ensure the continuation of the health services in
             urban Kabul until MOPH finalized the plan for the next phase of support to the
             urban Kabul BPHS under the current SEHAT Project.

       ii.   Change in Institutional Arrangements for urban Kabul BPHS (Component 2): A
             decision was made by MOPH to implement the urban Kabul BPHS by direct
             service provision through public entities under the supervision of MOPH instead
             of contracting it out to NGOs as was done for the rural BPHS (Component 1).
             Direct service provision, which included strengthening the implementation
             capacity of the government as the main supervisor and provider of services, is
             described as the Strengthening Mechanism (SM). This SM modality was already
             being used in delivery of services in three provinces.

      iii.   Reallocation of Grant Proceeds: Due to the change in the implementation
             modality for Component 2, the expenditures related to operating costs and goods
             increased relative to the original disbursement category allocations. The original
             allocations to operating costs and goods were small amounts which were kept
             separate for MOPH in order to perform its stewardship role, and the budget for
             implementation of urban Kabul BPHS was reflected under the category of sub-
             grants for NGO contracts. Due to this change, additional funds were required to
             support consultants, trainings, etc., as reflected in Table 1 below.


      iv.    Changes to Components and Cost: Due to the change in the implementation
             modality of service provision under Component 2, additional time was needed
             in order to design the urban service delivery model under the new MOPH SM

                                               4
             arrangement. As a result, the actual implementation of Component 2 started
             later than originally planned. Consequently, due late start and slow
             disbursement rate of Component 2, MOPH decided to reallocate US$1 million
             from Component 2 to Component 1 in order to complete planned activities
             under Component 1, as reflected in Table 2 below.

             Table 1: Original and Revised Grant Expenditure Categories

       Category Expenditure                           Allocation (US$)
                                              Original                     Revised
     1. Sub-grants                           17,400,000                   14,900,000
     2. Consultants, Services                 144,000                      518,977
        & Training
     3. Goods                                  50,000                      1,312,251
     4. Operating Costs                        56,000                       918,772
        Total                                17,650,000                   17,650,000

                 Table 2: Initial and Revised Allocations per Component

                                    Initial          % of       Revised           % of
     Component Name               Allocation         Total     Allocation         Total
                                 (US$ million)       Cost     (US$ million)       Cost
     1. Sustaining and
     Strengthening BPHS               13.9           79%           14.9            85%
     Delivery in Rural Areas
     2. Piloting BPHS
     Implementation in Urban          3.5            20%           2.5             14%
     Kabul
     3. Implementation and
                                      0.25            1%           0.25            1%
     Management Support
     Total                           17.65                        17.65


2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19. At the time of Project preparation, the government had already formulated the HNSS.
The World Bank was actively engaged in the policy dialogue in support of the development
of this strategy. The HNSS provided an overall policy framework, which ensured full
ownership and buy-in from the government, and created an effective platform for
coordination with other development partners, particularly USAID and the EU, who
provided parallel financing for the provision of BPHS and EPHS in the remaining provinces.

20. Several background analytical studies were carried out during the preparation phase.
The results of these studies and a full Health Sector Review were presented at the MOPH

                                               5
strategic retreat held in November 2008, followed by another retreat to discuss the research
findings and the key policy actions for the government and the development partners. This
had a very beneficial impact on the project preparation and design.

21. The MOPH was in the ‘driver’s seat’ during project preparation. The experience gained
during the implementation of the HSERDP project had a visible impact on the MOPH’s
capacity to steer the process and exercise leadership. This included the importance of
empowering local staff at all levels, successful provision of services through NGOs and the
definition of an effective BPHS package. The preparation process was inclusive and
participatory. The development partners – USAID, EU, JICA, WHO, CIDA, and many others,
including the World Bank – were actively involved and consulted.

22. As a co-financer of SHARP, the Project benefited from many of the preparatory steps
that were undertaken for SHARP. This included peer feedback and comments on design, and
other processes. The preparation process was well in progress before HSEDRP was closed
to allow for smooth transitioning and to avoid any disruptions in service provision.

23. The project design, which fell under OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery Assistance, took
into account significant risks that existed at the time of preparation. Growing insecurity
remained an issue, as it caused the disruption of service provision in certain areas, and
hampered monitoring and evaluation activities. The project design addressed this risk by
leveraging the flexibility of NGOs with strong local community links to deliver BPHS
services. This was a very innovative feature of the project. Another perceived risk was the
potential lack of qualified health care personnel at the community level, especially female
health workers, which could affect the uptake of child and maternal health services.
Therefore, training of female community health workers, midwives and nurses became a
critical activity supported by the Project. The risk of political opposition to contracting out
services to NGOs and potential difficulties in demonstrating results was the main factor that
influenced a very strong emphasis on robust monitoring and evaluation arrangements in the
project design. The use of an independent third party for validation and performance
measurement was an effective way to demonstrate credible results achieved by the Project
and thereby to mitigate this political risk.

2.2    Implementation

24. The project was implemented and managed as a part of SHARP by the government and
Bank during policy dialogue review and implementation support missions. The factors which
positively contributed to the Project outcomes during implementation included:

       Flexibility to innovate: Although technical standards that the NGOs were required to
      meet were quite specific, there was sufficient room provided for innovation. The
      flexibility to innovate included the ability for NGOs to substitute staff of a lower grade
      with comparable skills, if personnel of the required grade and seniority were not available.
      This enabled the NGOs to mitigate any human resource constraints.

       An important adjustment to the BPHS was scaling up the delivery of additional
      services in line with new guidelines. During implementation, the content of the BPHS

                                                 6
   was revised and additional services including mental health, rehabilitation, prison health,
   and enhanced nutritional services were included, which helped address some of critical
   needs of the targeted populations.

    The project was able to help address the re-emerging low vaccination problem,
   especially with the then-constraints in financial capabilities of the vaccination program
   in targeted provinces. The project provided: (i) financial resources to the program; (ii)
   much needed training and logistical support to mobile community vaccinators; and (iii)
   technical support to the program.

25. There were a number of factors that had a somewhat negative impact on Project
implementation as described below:

    The delays in the procurement processes of recruitment of NGOs for the delivery of
   the health care packages affected service delivery. Although the MOPH extended the old
   contracts of the NGOs engaged under the previous project (HSERDP) in order to avoid
   disruptions, the delay in finalization of new contracts in some places negatively affected
   motivation and retention of health care personnel, making it difficult for the NGOs under
   contract extension to maintain performance. Also, prolonged preoccupation of the
   GCMU with the contracting processes somewhat weakened GCMU’s supervision and
   monitoring of the implementation of existing contracts during the first two years of the
   project. In addition, delays in startup of the Kabul urban pilot led to an extension of the
   Closing Date to allow enough time for the completion of the procurement processes.

    Insecurity seriously affected project implementation in different ways: (a) in the
   remote districts/villages with frequent insurgencies, it was difficult to maintain personnel
   (especially female workers) in the health care facilities, and the operating hours of the
   rural facilities were often reduced, thereby limiting access of the population to services;
   (b) monitoring and supervision of service providers by the NGOs, GCMU, provincial
   health authorities and the third party evaluator was somewhat restricted in insecure
   localities and during insurgencies; (c) outreach services, especially immunization, were
   often constrained; (d) disruptions in the distribution of medicines and other supplies to
   villages; and (e) the population, especially women, feared to seek services in times of
   higher insecurity.

    There were also staffing issues in the rural areas which created challenges during
   project implementation. Despite significant efforts to engage a greater number of female
   health workers, their shortage remained a pressing challenge, particularly in remote
   villages and insecure areas. In response, NGOs deployed the female workers from the
   neighboring countries, mostly from Tajikistan. While this was innovative, it presents a
   challenge for the sustainability of these services.

    The Bank was flexible in accommodating and supporting the government’s demand
   of changing the implementation modality in Urban Kabul from contracting out NGOs to
   a direct implementation method as a pilot. Nevertheless, the new implementation
   modality did not realize its full envisaged benefits. However, it did provide many lessons

                                              7
   learnt of what can and cannot be directly implemented by the government for future
   operations.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26. The original Results Framework had three PDO indicators and four intermediate
outcome indicators. These indicators represented a good measure of the Project Development
Objective. Regrettably, an indicator on nutritional status was not included. Therefore, the
ICR included the PDO number four on chronic malnutrition of children under five years of
age. The ICR also added an intermediate outcome indicator number 5 on the Mean
Percentage Score on the National Monitoring Checklist for quality of services. This was
done because the indicator on the Balanced Scorecard could no longer be used due to the
change in methodology for data collection.

27. The M&E activities for this Project were carried out through SHARP, which allocated
US$11.00 million to M&E, or about 7% of the total SHARP project cost. There were a
number of surveys undertaken during the Project by third parties consisting of three health
facility assessments, one national household survey and 2 RBF household surveys (baseline
and midlines).

28. While duly recognizing, for the most part, the strengths and appropriateness of the
design, the actual implementation of M&E activities had some limitations, namely the lack
of comparable information from health facility surveys carried out after 2010 and before
2009 due to the revision of the survey tool. The baseline survey to be carried out by Johns
Hopkins University (JHU) was dropped to avoid duplication with the MICS planned by
UNICEF for the same year, 2010. Unfortunately, the MICS could not be finalized by 2010
and it was carried over to 2011. Planned collaboration between JHU and MOPH did not have
sufficiently strong developmental impact on the MOPH.

29. A results-based financing (RBF) pilot (incentivizing staff on performance), which was
funded through the Health Results Innovation Trust Fund was implemented under SHARP
in 14 provinces and also used in 2 rural provinces under this project. This was a well-tested
model of incentivizing staff performance based on independent verification (carried out by
JHU) of results reported by the service providers. It included data audit of a sample of health
care facilities participating in the RBF pilot followed by community verification – tracing
the patients who received services according to provider records. According to the feedback
from NGOs participating in the RBF pilot, independent verification was mostly helpful and
contributed to the improvement of the quality of reporting.

30. The MOPH selected 14 indicators for monitoring and evaluation of the urban Kabul
BPHS pilot. Only 11 of which had data available for them. These indicators are found in
Annex 8. Target setting for the various performance indicators of the urban Kabul component
was more or less set at a constant 10% improvement. This was done in conjunction with the
overall strategy of setting a gradual improvement in the health metrics of the country and
was also based on building a realistic consensus with all stakeholders. Setting a uniform rate
for all indicators turned out to be incapacitating for some indicators and an easy target for


                                              8
others. An evaluation of the Urban Kabul BPHS pilot was completed in December 2014
which assessed the achievement of proposed objectives, key results and lessons learned.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social and Environmental Safeguards

31. The Project was classified as environmental category “B”. An Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared and disclosed by the government in
Dari, Pashto and English. It was also made available at the World Bank’s Info Shop. The
government made all project documentation publicly available to the relevant stakeholders
through the Afghan Information Management System. The MOPH was requested to prepare
a comprehensive bio-medical waste management plan in the first four-six months after
project effectiveness. Preparation of a revised/updated environmental management plan by
November 30, 2010 was a legal covenant in the grant agreement. Although the plan was
prepared, implementation of the plan was not fully completed. The main issue which
hindered the implementation of the plan was having it prepared by the Directorate of Policy
and Planning and the Directorate of Health Economics and Financing, whereas the
responsibility for implementation rested with the Directorate of Preventive Medicine.

32. The health facilities supported by the project continued carrying out medical waste
management through outdated practices. Also, the separation of sharps and other medical
wastes was either not happening consistently at the place of generation, or if it was done
there was no color coding and proper follow up. The medical waste was often mixed with
municipal wastes, especially in urban areas.

33. The actual compliance of the Borrower with the safeguards plans had limitations. The
unit responsible for ESMF did not perform its responsibility and left it to services delivery
unit to implement it without technical leadership and oversight. In addition, a designated
safeguards focal officer was to be appointed with responsibility for overseeing the proper
application of the ESMF within the GCMU at the MOPH. However, no such focal officer
was ever appointed. This is mainly because the MOPH did not have clarity regarding which
department should own this activity. This uncertainty persisted until the end of the Project.
This will be a critical area to be addressed under SEHAT.

34. With regards to social safeguards, the local Community Development Councils (CDCs)
were not very involved in the selection of the Community Health Workers (CHW) as
envisaged in the design, and thus, the CHW Program received little support from CDCs. A
complaint handling system was put in place in the health care facilities, but its scope and
reach was limited. No records of the complaints were maintained.

Financial Management and Disbursement

35. The Project operated under the steadily improving Public Financial Management
(PFM) reforms implemented by the Government of Afghanistan. These reforms continue to
be implemented under the series of PFM Reform projects supported by the World Bank.
Proper records of grants received and disbursed amounts were maintained, at the central level,

                                              9
by the Ministry of Finance in the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
(AFMIS). Subsidiary books of records were maintained at the MOPH. Financial
management staffing was adequate and the staff was embedded within the finance
department of MOPH. However, all of the staff members handling the project FM were
consultants paid under the project due to the weak FM capacity within the civil service

36. Over the Project period, the fund flow to the project was mostly timely, with some
delays during the beginning of the fiscal year due to late approval of the new budget. Direct
payments in local currency to NGOs took longer than US$ payments due to the time taken
by the World Bank to obtain local currency from the central bank of Afghanistan.
Replenishment requests were submitted periodically, as required.

37. Quarterly IFRs in the agreed format were submitted during the life of the project, but
not always within the timeline of 45 days after the end of each quarter. During the initial
period of the project, the IFRs included information on procurement and physical progress.
Mostly the delays were attributed to delay in consolidated the three pieces of information –
financial, procurement and physical progress. In 2013, the formats for the IFRs were
simplified to include only the financial information, and thereafter the timeliness of
submission improved.

38. Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly, and on time, except for
fiscal year 2012. While the management letters did raise some internal control issues, there
were no key material issues. All issues raised were satisfactorily resolved by MOPH. At the
time of this ICR, there are no outstanding audits or audit issues. The audited financial
statements for FY1393 (Afghanistan Fiscal Year ended December 21, 2014) that were due
by June 20, 2015 were received on May 6, 2015 and there was no critical issue.

39. There were no internal audits conducted throughout the life of the project, due to weak
capacity in the internal audit department of the MOPH. The focus of the internal audit
department was on the operational budget of the MOPH. While MOPH recruited an internal
audit consultant mid-way through the project, the consultant resigned within a short period
of time due to the inability to work effectively with the internal audit department. In the
Ministry of Finance (MoF), the capacity of the internal audit department is being
strengthened under the series of PFM Reform projects. However, article 61 of the PFEM
Law prevents the MoF internal audit department from carrying out the internal audit in
ministries other than MoF. However, in 2013, the Bank agreed with MoF that its internal
audit department will carry out the audit for all Bank funded/administered projects in other
line ministries. This arrangement is currently in effect and covers the ongoing health projects
in MOPH.

Procurement

40. The MOPH has a procurement directorate which carried out procurement of goods and
works with the support of the Afghanistan Development and Reconstruction Services for
SHARP. However, procurement of consultancy services was carried out by the GCMU of
MOPH. The Project closed with a moderately satisfactory rating for procurement. Only in


                                              10
the first year of implementation was the rating moderately unsatisfactory. This was due to
the long delays in the procurement of NGO services for the BPHS.

41. Implementation delays could have been avoided if the government had allowed the
renewal of the contracts with top performing NGOs engaged under the previous project
(HSERDP) Extra care should have been taken towards the early assessment and risk
mitigation of the procurement procedures of medical goods in the country to avoid
interruptions in service provision after project effectiveness

42. For the urban Kabul pilot, the procurement process was lengthy, delayed and inefficient.
The delays in procurement were mainly attributed to: (1) lack of proactivity and inconsistent
procurement management by KPPHD and SM; (2) weak procurement capacities within the
government hierarchy augmented by the lack of a dedicated consultant for procurement
during most of the project; (3) multiple signatory authorities (up to 11 signatures); (4)
procurement authorization being handled by non-trained procurement officials and/or other
members of the procurement committee who were not trained on procurement; and (5)
complex procurement laws of the country which demanded large batches of procurement be
conducted through the public Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services which
is a 9-month process, on average.

43. There was an attempt to procure these goods through the government process at the
beginning of the Project, but this process took more than a year. The Project then shifted
focus to procurement through UNICEF, but encountered challenges there as well. Finally,
essential medicines were supplied (borrowed in-kind) to the urban health facilities from the
MOPH health stock through the Kabul Provincial Public Health Directorate (KPPHD),
International Committee of the Red Cross and the Islamic Relief. Eventually, the
procurement process was completed before the end of the Project.

2.5   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

44. Although the SHARP project closed on September 30, 2013 and the JSDF financed
project closed on December 31, 2014, there has been no disruption of BPHS services in rural
provinces and urban Kabul. The follow on project, SEHAT, was designed while SHARP
was still under implementation in order to ensure the smooth transition and continuation of
services. SEHAT, a nationwide program, finances the implementation of the BPHS and
EPHS to the entire country, through contracting-out and contracting-in arrangements both in
rural and urban areas in 34 provinces.

45. Discussions between the Government and the Bank on the future of the urban health
service delivery model to be financed under SEHAT are ongoing. The JSDF financed Project
was instrumental in that it carried out an urban service delivery pilot’s evaluation which has
informed these discussions.

46. It was noted during March 2015 ICR field visits to sample health facilities in Kabul
city that services are being delivered in an adequate manner through government and SEHAT
budgets. Many of the reforms introduced under SHARP and this Project continue to be
practiced and utilization rates are in satisfactory ranges. Staffing quantity, although not to

                                             11
standard, was adequate and functioning well. Stocks of pharmaceuticals, basic supplies and
vaccines were adequate.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (Rating: Substantial)

47. Project objectives were and remain Highly relevant in terms of their alignment with
the national development goals, the Bank’s country engagement priorities, and the global
development agenda. Afghanistan’s HNSS (2008-2013) set the following high-level national
objectives: (i) to reduce maternal and newborn mortality, (ii) to reduce under-five mortality
and improve child health, (iii) to reduce the incidence of communicable diseases, (iv) to
reduce malnutrition, and (v) to develop health systems. The objectives and design of
SHARP and this Project were fully aligned with the above outlined national policy priorities
of the government.

48. The World Bank’s Interim Development Strategy for Afghanistan (2009-2011) had
three pillars: (a) building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens; (b)
promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods; and (c) supporting
growth of the formal private sector. The Project contributed to the delivery of Pillars 1 & 2
of this interim strategy. The Project was also highly aligned with the MDG agenda with its
focus on maternal and child health issues, malnutrition and TB issues. Importantly, the
project served as a continuation of the previous project, HSERDP, and provided critical
services in a very volatile and insecure environment.

49. The project design, focusing on the BPHS, was Highly relevant and appropriate for
the health care challenges of Afghanistan. The BPHS contained seven critical elements well
justified by the disease burden in the country: maternal and newborn health, child health and
immunization, public nutrition, communicable disease treatment and control, mental health,
disability services, and regular supply of essential drugs. The BPHS was revised in 2010 to
include additional interventions on nutrition, mental health, disability and provision of prison
health care.

50. The project design was also highly innovative in terms of enabling performance-
based service provision through NGOS in high insecurity setting. In addition, it introduced
a pilot for the delivery of an urban health model in Kabul which provided valuable lessons
on how to provide services in similar urban settings. This pilot and its evaluation provided
many important lessons for the delivery of health services in urban settings to be considered
during the design/implementation of SEHAT.

51. On balance, given the high relevance of objectives and design, and the innovations
supported under the Project, the overall rating for relevance is High.

3.2   Achievement of Project Development Objectives (Rating: Substantial)




                                               12
52.    The PDO focuses on three areas: (i) improving health and nutritional status: (ii)
increased access; and (iii) increased quality. Below is an assessment of the achievement of
PDO and intermediate outcome indicators in these respective areas.

                           Table 3: Status of PDO achievement

 PDO             Surpassed       Achieved         Not            Not       Overall
                                                  Achieved       Evaluable Rating
 Improved
 Health and
                                       2                                       Substantial
 Nutritional
 Status
 Increased
                       2               2               1              1        Substantial
 Access
 Increased
                       1                                              1        Substantial
 Quality
 TOTAL                 3               4               1              2        Substantial

Note: PDO on Increased Access includes an additional indicator on “People with access to
health services with two hours distance by any means of transport”.

PDO#1 – Improved Health and Nutritional Status (Rating: Substantial):

53.     The Project supported the national effort to steadily improve overall maternal,
neonatal and nutritional indicators in the country. Over the period of 2010-2013, the
maternal mortality ratio dropped from 500 to 400 deaths per 100,000 live births, the U5
mortality rate dropped from 105 to 97 per 1,000 live births, and starting 2013 less than half
of the Afghan children are now malnourished. Achievement against specific indicators
which measure this PDO are as follows:

    % Children below 5y with Chronic Malnutrition (National Average)

54. This ICR uses this indicator as a proxy to assess the overall progress on nutrition
related results. The project contributed to the larger SHARP effort of providing the
population with access to nutrition related services. The indicator has shown a marked
decrease in malnutrition from 60.5% to 40.9% among children of the country. It is the view
of this ICR that the combined efforts of this operation and SHARP project did contributed
towards this achievement with introduction of nutrition services as part of revised BPHS.
However, the large scale reduction in malnutrition level could also be attributable to overall
improving in socioeconomic conditions in Afghanistan.

      TB treatment success rate

55. The Project target was to reach a 90% TB treatment success rate by 2014 – a 5% point
increase from the baseline of 85%. The project nearly met the target. According to the HMIS
and the National TB Control Report of 2014, the TB treatment success in 2013 reached 89%.

                                             13
PDO #2 – Increased Access (Rating: Substantial):

    Pregnant women receiving at least one antenatal care visit

56. The Project made commendable progress on this indicator with a 6.9% point increase
over the Project lifetime fully achieving the target. The household data comparing one ANC
coverage indicates its improvement from 48% in 2010 (MICS survey 2011) to 54% in 2012
(JHU survey 2012). These statistics suggest that the project contributed to a strong
performance with regard to this very important indicator. The main driver of success in
scaling up antenatal care delivery was setting up new health sub-centers and basic health
clinics, and staffing them with a new cadre of female health workers.

    DPT3 coverage among children 12-23 months

57. The project target for DPT3 coverage among 12-23 month old children was set at 60%
and achieved 46.7%, a 13 percentage point increase from the baseline of 34%. Although,
the target was not technically achieved, the project contributed to the national immunization
of approximately 1,056,776 children. This was significant progress, accomplished under
very challenging and difficult circumstances. Health care staff who were carrying out the
immunization outreach often risked their lives (some of them actually were harmed) to
deliver life-saving services to children in remote villages. Further, the harsh winters in
conjunction with the ill-equipped roads posed a logistical challenge for many outreach
vaccination activities. In retrospect, the target may have been set too high given the
circumstances.

58. It is worthwhile to note that the officially reported DPT3 coverage by HMIS is much
higher – 96%. The reason for this is the inaccurate small estimate of the denominator:
children in the target group. The HMIS more or less correctly captures the statistics of the
children vaccinated during the calendar year, but because the denominator is underestimated,
the coverage figure ends up being artificially inflated.

    Number of consultations per person per year

59. The Project not only achieved its target but actually over achieved it (1.84 consultations
per person per year in 2014 against a target of 1.4 consultations). This represents a significant
rise over the baseline of 0.9 consultations per person per year, doubling of the number of
visits per person over the project period. This was achieved by improving access and
increasing the supply of services.

    Proportion of births attended by skilled attendants

60. The Project target for this indicator was to achieve a 28% attendance of deliveries by a
skilled attendant. This would mean a 9.1% point increase from the baseline of 18.9%. The
project made significant progress and the actual performance exceeded the target with 40%
were attended by a skilled attendant (JHU survey 2012).


                                               14
    People with access to a basic package of health, nutrition, or reproductive health
   services

61. The target for this indicator was to maintain 85% BPHS coverage throughout the life
project. The numerical target value of 5,062,917 persons was derived from estimated
population in 11 Bank financed provinces and taking population growth into account.
Subsequent surveys had not provided comparable information. The information available is
for people with access to BPHS at the two hours distance analysis of which is described
below.

    People with access to health services with two hours distance by any means of transport

62. Due to unavailability of comparable data for measuring the progress in access to health
services, this ICR uses this indicator for measuring physical access. The data show
remarkable progress in access to health services between 2006 and 2012 at the national level.
According to the NRVA 2012, 88.4% of the population can reach the nearest health facility
within two hours. The corresponding overall figure reported in AHS 2006 was only 60%.

PDO#3 – Increased Quality (Rating: Substantial):

63. The RF contained one indicator measuring the progress towards this objective: (i) Score
on the balance scorecard examining quality of care in health facilities which became
irrelevant due to the sudden change of the measurement tool (BSC) by the government in the
middle of project implementation, rendering any comparisons between the old and new ones
futile. However, this ICR uses an additional proxy indicator (scores from National
Monitoring Checklist) to measure any improvements in the quality of services in Balkh and
Samangan provinces.

    Score on the balanced scorecard examining quality of care in health facilities

64. Due to the revision of the BSC, the target was revised to 60. Actual performance as
measured by the Balanced Scorecard in 2013 was 56. However, given the political, social
and economic deterioration of the country over the project implementation period, the quality
of care remains in an acceptable range but could not achieve the revised target. Moreover,
due to the revisions and updates performed on the methodology of the balanced scorecard in
2010, the baseline of 70 achieved in 2010 is not comparable and therefore cannot be used.

    Mean % Score on the National Monitoring Checklist for quality of services

65. Due to the difficulty in comparing data between the old and the new Balanced
Scorecard in the previous indicator, this ICR uses this indicator as a proxy for measuring the




                                             15
quality of the services1 offered in the rural facilities. The checklist is administered by the
MOPH supervisory teams and reports are aggregated up to the national level. Balkh and
Samangan have both shown a remarkable increase in their scores from 77% to 87% and 82%
to 89%, respectively, from 2011 to 2014.

Urban Kabul BPHS Pilot

66. The Urban Kabul BPHS pilot had its own set of 14 indicators. Since the
implementation of this pilot was delayed, the achievement of the indicators is mixed. Annex
8 lists 11 indicators for which data was available, out of the original 14 indicators. This was
due to the inability to disaggregate data for urban Kabul from the provincial Kabul data for
provider knowledge score, outpatient visits equity index and quality of care in HF. Only 3
indicators met their targets: (i) patient satisfaction, (ii) outpatient utilization; and (iii) number
of TB cases successfully treated, owing to the increasing numbers of facilities offering the
treatment and the use of the DOTS technique. The other 8 indicators never met their intended
targets, though 2 of those (number of deliveries and number of new contraceptive users) have
shown commendable progress.

67. On balance, the overall rating for Efficacy is Substantial given the achievement against
the three PDOs and the valuable lessons learned through the urban pilot

3.3 Efficiency (Rating: Substantial)

68. For the purposes of this ICR no net present value and economic rate of return analysis
have been conducted. Instead, the health interventions supported by the project were assessed
against the international evidence of their cost-effectiveness.

69. Health interventions supported by the project were assessed against the international
evidence of their cost-effectiveness. The BPHS covered six main groups of health
interventions: (i) maternal and newborn care; (ii) child health and immunization; (iii) public
nutrition; (iv) communicable disease treatment and control; (v) mental health; and (v)
disability and physical rehabilitation services. According to the 2010 global burden of
disease estimates from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation2, the health conditions
addressed by these interventions account for about 59.5% of the total disease burden in
Afghanistan.

70. The BPHS design favors community-based health services with the greatest emphasis
on health services delivered by health posts, basic health centers, mobile health teams,
comprehensive health clinics and district hospitals. All of these delivery modes are the least
expensive and most accessible by the poor population groups. Community health workers,


1
  The checklist is a composite of 10 indicators reflecting the quality of services in a given facility, including:
(i) Equipment index; (ii) Laboratory index; (iii) Drug index; (iv) Health Post index; (v) HMIS index; (vi) Charts
index; (vii) Management index; (viii) Service delivery index; (ix) EPI index; and (x) Reproductive health index.

2
    http://www.healthmetricsandevaluation.org/gbd/visualizations/gbd-cause-patterns

                                                       16
nurses, and midwives are the key human resource inputs for BPHS, which makes it a much
more cost-effective model of care compared to those where physicians are the main health
care providers.

71. Most BPHS interventions supported by the project fall under the cost-effectiveness
ratio of US$100 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted, which is considered a
very good value for money. For example, the vaccination of a child with basic antigens (BCG,
DTP, Measles, and OPV) is estimated to cost about US$15 per DALY; integrated
management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) will cost US$40 per DALY; antenatal care and
delivery with a skilled birth attendant - US$40/DALY; and family planning –
US$25/DALY.3

72. The MOPH carried out a cost analysis of the BPHS in 2012. According to this study,
the per capita expenditure for the BPHS is, on average, US$2.57 and ranges from US$1.44
(district hospitals) to US$4.56 (health sub-center). The difference in the per capita cost
between the health centers could be due to a variation in population characteristics, or case-
mix. The estimated per-capita cost of the BPHS appears to be low compared to estimates of
US$5-10 per capita required to provide a package of services for health related MDGs.

73. When comparing the estimates of the per capita cost of delivery of the BPHS from the
2012 study with that from an earlier study carried out in 2006-20074. The earlier study mostly
focused on the provinces supported by the USAID, while the 2012 study mostly focused on
the provinces supported by the Bank project. The average per capita cost of the BPHS by the
O. Ameli and W. Newbrander study was estimated at US$3.78, which indicates that the
BPHS delivered through the Bank-supported Project was less expensive. One of the reasons
for this could be that in the Bank-supported Project, the NGO contracts were set at the
province level, which could be more efficient than contracts to support lower aggregates of
population (often the case in the USAID supported program).

74. The Project disbursed 97% within the first three years of implementation, which is
remarkable in a country with severe security challenges. The remaining funds (US$ 520,000)
were disbursed in the last year of implementation and were related to the urban Kabul BPHS
pilot. As noted above, the pilot implementation was delayed which resulted in an extension
of the project Closing Date by 1.5 years.

75. Given the overall cost-effectiveness of interventions and the efficient implementation
of the bulk of the main project component (1), overall Efficiency is rated as Substantial.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (Satisfactory)




3
  Disease Control Priorities in developing Countries. 2nd Edition. Chapter 2. Intervention Cost-Effectiveness:
Overview of Main Messages. Ramanan Laxminarayan, Jeffrey Chlow, and Sonbol A. Shahid-Salles.
http://www.dcp2.org/pubs/DCP
4
  Effects of utilization and quality on the costs of the Basic Package of Health Services in Afghanistan by O.
Ameli and W. Newbrander carried out in 2006-2007

                                                     17
76. The overall outcome rating of the project is Satisfactory given high relevance,
substantial efficacy and substantial efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

77. The major part of the project supported the provision of BPHS services to the
population of two of the poorest provinces in Afghanistan, Balkh and Samangan, where the
poverty rates are as high as 60.3% and 55.1% respectively. Moreover, the urban Kabul pilot
was implemented through offering a similar modified package in public facilities that are
often exclusively frequented by poor or semi-poor populations. All three provinces had a
weighted average of poverty rates of 35.1%, making the project highly relevant in serving
the poor whom represented at least 1/3 of the total beneficiaries.

78. The urban Kabul component created an urban health model for the city with eight
BHCs, 28 CHCs, 4 CHC+ and 4 district hospitals. Of those, at least 9 facilities have seen
some kind of physical renovations and upgrading. In the rural provinces, the implementing
NGOs took considerable steps towards renovating many of the facilities and took the added
step of leveraging external funds for that purpose.

79. Health projects supporting basic benefit packages like this one almost often are, and by
innate nature, empowering to women. The content offered in the BPHS package, which
heavily targets maternal and child services, positively supports the social and health/physical
welfare of women. Moreover, the project has encouraged gender empowerment through
offering job opportunities for female health personnel at all levels. The project was also
sensitive to the demands of female beneficiaries of being approached by female only health
staff.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening

80. The major focus on capacity building and enhancing stewardship was placed at the
national level. The MOPH received significant support from the Project in terms of
consultants with skills and competencies lacking among the cadre of civil servants. The
Project has also supported the creation of a Kabul Urban health model that, despite having
some problems, has generated many lessons that would help shape the future of the health
delivery system in the capital.

81. Where applicable, the Project also benefited from the establishment of a new
mechanism of paying providers through results-based financing which was financed under
SHARP. This innovative pilot is going to be scaled up nation-wide, marking a significant
policy shift in the field of health financing.

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

82. The project has helped the government to start a process of assessment of its
procurement laws, institutions, and regulations. This comes at the level of the presidential

                                              18
office and the Ministry of Finance responding to multiple requests to simplify and reduce the
number of signatory authorities on public procurement packages.

3.6   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Rating: Substantial)

83. The main risks for the project development outcomes are: (a) volatile security situation;
(b) insufficient government financing to sustain results; (c) slow progress in institutional
capacity strengthening; and (d) entrenched government bureaucracy with frequent political
interference, especially in urban areas.

84. Afghanistan’s security situation has witnessed a recent surge in security threats in the
past few years. This is especially evident in the rural provinces where efforts to sustain
effective outreach programs as well as attract and maintain trained health professionals,
especially female staff, has been and is continuously hampered.

85. The Afghan healthcare system is highly dependent on donor financing. This support is
not foreseen to be weakening in the medium term with well planned and executed health
projects, SEHAT being one of them. The design of the later, has ensured the non-disruption
of services at the provincial level and have addressed many of the lessons learnt under
SHARP-wide support. This risk will remain until a substantial amount of local resources are
provided through the Government budget and the security situation significantly improves.

86. Although considerable training, hiring of technical consultants and capacity building
has been embedded in the project design of the JSDF grant and SHARP, the healthcare
workforce in the country, both at the stewardship and implementation levels, demonstrates a
great lack of capacity. This remains a major risk for the health system; and thus improving
and integrating those capacities requires urgent attention in order to ensure the sustainability
of the project’s investments.

87. Increased bureaucracy, often a result of measures to fight corruption and ensure
transparency, have led to lengthy government processes and a change in reporting structures


5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a)   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (Rating: Satisfactory)

88. The World Bank’s performance during the project design was an exceptional case of
responding to client needs, exercise of convening power with other donors, and ensuring the
continuity of care with smooth transition from the previous project, with no interruption of
care.

                                              19
89. The model of contracting out services to NGO’s to offer a defined cost-effective
package of services was innovative and is trade-marked for Afghanistan. Further, the model
allowed implementing NGO’s enough flexibility to experiment with and/or fine tune
delivery models to suit their geo-political, security and financial constraints in their
respective provinces. This also involved heavy investments in capacity development of the
Afghan health workforce and ensured sustained bonds of cooperation with other bilateral
donor organizations.

90. The Bank jointly with others partners undertook a review of the health sector and
coordinated closely with the partners and the government to plan the next phase of sectoral
support. The BPHS and EPHS provision was agreed to be implemented using the contracting
modality and financing with partners for designated provinces was agreed well in time with
MOPH leading the coordination effort with the Bank.

(b)    Quality of Supervision (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

91. The Bank team carried out joint formal (and informal) supervision with the SHARP
project to maximize efficiencies. Formal missions were carried out twice a year. A strong
local team provided continual implementation support, while the TTL was also based in
Pakistan, which allowed him to visit the country often. The Aide Memoires were well written
and contained clear actionable recommendations. The ISRs were prepared on time and they
contained substantive information about the project implementation progress, challenges and
required actions. The team was candid in downgrading the ISR ratings where appropriate.

92. In the initial phase of the project, the emphasis of supervision was largely on the
operational issues (e.g., contracting of NGOs) but at the later stage the emphasis shifted
towards results, policies and development issues. The Bank team performed very well with
regard to ensuring sustainable financing of the project and a smooth transition to a new
operation, SEHAT, without causing any interruption in the delivery of the basic package of
services.

93. The Bank team should have likely considered restructuring the Results Framework to
better demonstrate the progress of the nutritional status of the targeted population as a result
of the project intervention.

94. The Bank team could have shown more pro-activity in the environmental safeguards
area by working closely with senior level management of MOPH, and providing additional
technical support to the MOPH for the modification and implementation of the medical
health waste management plan.

95.   Given the deficiencies as relates to safeguards, the rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)



                                              20
96. The World Bank team has shown, despite the few shortcomings, a consistent pattern of
engagement and professionalism both at entry and during implementation. Therefore, the
overall rating for Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2   Borrower Performance

(a)   Government Performance (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

97. The government, realizing the urgent development needs of the country, has exercised
full ownership of the project. This was most evident by MOPH efforts to realign its strategies,
structure and implementation modalities to the agreed upon design. MOPH has also played
a leading coordinating role between the different development partners towards aligning
funds, efforts and geographical scopes, especially under SHARP.

98. The government’s fiduciary control mechanisms are difficult and lengthy. The Ministry
of Finance exercises control over the full spectrum of financial aspects of all projects in the
country, usually including project budgets and procurements in its own annual general
budget. Signatory authorizations were lengthy and passed through many officials
unnecessarily.

99. The environmental safeguards plan having been set for the SHARP operation was not
fully executed. The plan was prepared by the Directorate of Policy and Planning and the
Directorate of Health Economics and Financing, whereas the responsibility for
implementation rested with the Directorate of Preventive Medicine.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)

SM and KPPHD (Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory)

100. Initially, the project was supposed to be implemented through contracting out NGOs
for Urban Kabul. However, it was later decided by MOPH to appoint KPPHD as the main
implementer through the support of the SM; the latter was historically mandated to support
implementation in different provinces through providing technical and coordination support.
After the project launch, it was realized that KPPHD lacked implementation capacity as well
as political authority to carry out implementation in its own right and implementation
responsibility gradually shifted to SM. Thus, the Urban Kabul component was plagued by a
series of lack of coordination between SM and KPPHD, high leadership turnover in both SM
and KPPHD, and a lack of regular coordination meetings. Data reporting and facility level
supervision were significantly weakened by this arrangement.

101. It was only in the last year of the project that coordination between the two entities was
achieved. This was coupled by a commendable training to PHOs on important BPHS topics
and project management (carried out by JICA). Moreover, KPPHD had logistical
improvements through office renovations and supply of the latest technological equipment.
Subcommittees meetings were also held more frequently. Nevertheless, no clear borders for
spheres of authority or accountability were defined until the end of the project. Therefore, it

                                              21
is the view of this ICR that the SM and KPPHD performance is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA) + Afghan Center for Training & Development
(ACTD) (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

102. Both SCA and ACTD co-shared the implementation responsibility in Samangan
province in the ratios of 60% and 40%, respectively. SCA being an NGO arm of a bilateral
donor (Government of Sweden) had vast experience in project implementation as well as
access to external financial and logistical resources. Thus, the implementing NGOs went the
extra mile of doing several extra-contractual duties in the province. This included extensive
renovation works to at least 10 BHCs, building staff quarters, providing day care for children
of female staff, providing extensive transportation to staff and giving out lucrative contracts
to imported staff from the neighboring country of Tajikistan.

103. Although the extra-contractual work activities have all been directed towards the
common goal of achieving better health care services for the people of the province, no
mechanisms were built in to ensure the sustainability of these services at contract end.
Therefore, it is the view of this ICR that although the additional services may have provided
just-in-time support to the population, the future lack thereof of these services, and the fact
that they were outside of the scope of the agreed upon SHARP operation, is not commendable.
These extra services may have been understandable if SCA was guaranteed continuity of
operations in Samangam province under the SEHAT operation, which was not the case. As
a result, the relationship between the implementing NGO, which is providing services per
their contractual agreement, and the local populace could be affected. Rating for SCA and
ACTD is Moderately Satisfactory.

Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance (CHA) (Rating: Satisfactory)

104. CHA, an NGO working in Afghanistan since 1987 and having delivered many projects
in the country, was well experienced and suited to the deliver services in Balkh. The NGO
employed many dynamic young and professional staff and showed a high level of
professionalism and experience when dealing with the local political leadership, authorities
and changing security situations. CHA, owing to their previous experiences, has provided
valuable recommendations about how to better design and implement future projects in the
province. It is the view of this ICR that the failure to achieve some of the project targets set
for Balkh were mainly due to other externalities that were common to the whole country, e.g.
immunization campaigns. Therefore, it is the view of this ICR that CHA be rated as
Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)

105. Following the above discussion, the Moderately Satisfactory rating of the government,
and Satisfactory and Moderately Satisfactory ratings of implementing NGOs, the overall
Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


                                              22
6.    Lessons Learned

106. Owing to the dual nature of the components supported under this project, lessons
learned can be grouped into: a) general lessons; b) lessons related to the implementation in
rural Samangan and Balkh; and c) lessons related to the Urban Kabul pilot.

A)    General Lessons:

107. The approach used in Afghanistan to deliver primary health care services is becoming
a model for other fragile and post-conflict countries. The successful approach revolves
around: (i) a low cost unified package of health services that is agreed upon by all
stakeholders; (ii) contracting out services to NGOs who have greater agility and flexibility
in delivering those services; (iii) close collaboration between the government and
development partners with clear cut spheres of responsibilities and roles; and (iv) a gradual
strengthening of government capacity for stewardship and healthcare provision with
increasing roles and responsibilities over time.

108. Reporting and collection of data on performance indicators, and HMIS strengthening
should be considered carefully when designing future operations. Project M&E and
assessment of achievements should be based on reliable indicators, the lack of which may
greatly undermine the project development objectives. Support to data systems, reporting
arrangements and institutions should be essential elements of project design. In addition,
targets should be realistically set. It is unfair to set a uniform percentage point targets increase
– or decrease- to all indicators addressing different health sub-programs.

109. Improvements to the government fiduciary systems and processes and their pertinent
capacities is a priority for the future. A detailed assessment of the procurement process in
MOPH to identify areas for streamlining and shortening is mandatory. Different signatory
authorities must be assessed against their legal mandates and compliance with anti-
corruption strategies. Regardless of procurement through KPPHD or central MOHP
mechanisms, it is critical to ensure two measures. First is to streamline government
guidelines to ensure consistencies and avoid unnecessary delays. Second is to clearly define
roles and responsibilities, with detailed time-frames and accountability measures for
signatory individuals. Furthermore, financial authority for the project should only lie with
one entity (according to the new adopted modality) with streamlined arrangements for other
implementing entities. It is also imperative that appropriate technical assistance is made
available to support implementation processes in both fiduciary functions.
B) Lessons Related to implementation in rural Samangan and Balkh:

110. Well-performing NGOs should be given preference for follow-up operations if they
maintain satisfactory performance. Several NGOs either lost their contracts or were awarded
contracts in new provinces during the transitions from HSDERP to SHARP to SEHAT.
NGOs tend to invest in capacities, build operational know-how and gather political support
during their contract implementation period. Ensuring and encouraging continuity in
obtaining follow-up contracts should be viewed as a practice to reward successful NGOs and
the local community. Furthermore, operational budget flexibility should be offered to
contracted NGOs as long as they are committed to attaining results.

                                                23
111. Local provincial health departments should be encouraged to play an increasing role
of facilitation and stewardship. Strict supervision of and reaping maximum benefits from
NGOs should not be the primary focus of the provincial health departments. Early
engagement of the provincial health departments should be sought in future operations to
coach them towards facilitating and assuming monitoring functions during project
implementation.

C)    Lesson Related to the Urban Kabul Pilot:

112. A new implementation modality for Urban Kabul and other urban areas should be
considered for any future support. The lessons and experiences from the urban Kabul pilot
and the rural BPHS components have clearly demonstrated that direct public health provision
is not always the best answer for ensuring a stable, functioning health system, especially in
a developing country. Given the successes achieved through contracting out services to
NGOs in the rural setting and (implementation challenges encountered through the SM-
KPPHD management structure, it is quite worthwhile to use NGO-contracted delivery in
Kabul as a pilot. Alternatively, MOPH could look at a decentralized model with KPPHD
being entrusted management and implementation responsibility with full administrative and
financial powers. Although a strong role for governmental oversight, stewardship and
coordination is a must, direct provision modalities may have different flexibilities However,
under any circumstance, departing from the existing management arrangements is necessary.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)   Borrower/Implementing Agencies

113. The Borrower carried out a formal project evaluation after completion for the urban
Kabul pilot. The completion report (Annex 7), and meetings held during the World Bank’s
ICR mission, confirm the Borrower’s view that the project was highly relevant. It fully met
the expectations of the government and produced satisfactory results, albeit with some of the
shortcomings in the Kabul pilot. Issues raised by the government counterparts included the
following:

114. Bureaucracy was a major factor in the slow initial start of the project. Future projects
should work with government counterparts towards solving those problems. This ICR
concurs with this remark.

115. According to the GCMU, the procurement process for NGO selection was more
complex than necessary. It would have been more efficient if the contracts with NGOs with
a satisfactory performance record could have been directly extended. This ICR strongly
concurs with this comment particularly given the emergency status of operations in
Afghanistan.

116. Government counterparts have acknowledged the need for more effective project
stewardship and facilitation by the local health provinces. This was attributed to insufficient
funds allocated to those entities as well as local political interference. However, it is the view

                                               24
of this ICR that improper capacity building, engagement and definition of roles were also
reasons for these weaknesses. The SEHAT project, having identified these gaps, is
addressing some of these concerns.

117. Government concedes that there were difficulties in estimating population size,
especially in Kabul. This made it difficult to evaluate the achievement of one indicator in
the Results Framework. Internal migration due to conflict and lack of security is a major
problem in the country. It is advised that future projects undertake rigorous assessments of
expected population changes in the target areas. If that is not possible, then % improvement
indicators should suffice.

118. The following comments were received from the Afghanistan government in response
to two issues raised in section 7c below.

119. Response to Comment 1 in paragraph 123: The GCMU/MOPH expressed their
disagreement with this statement, saying that “the NGO contracts in Balkh and Samangan
were extended/amended and additional costs/budget were provided for new services due to
the revision in BPHS.”

120. Response to Comment 2 in paragraph 124: The GCMU/MOPH clarified that “actually
the contracts with NGOs were lump sum and they have flexibility to re-adjust the cost. Also,
that MOPH/GCMU always welcomed NGO proposition for hiring staff such as female MD,
female nurse, midwife and etc. even with higher salary than foreseen in the signed
contract.” This was due to the need to be able to attract these staff in order to maintain
service provision.

(b)   Cofinanciers

121. Not applicable

(c)   Other Partners and Stakeholders

122. Overall NGOs endorsed the project’s development objectives and design. However, a
few concerns and comments were raised, which are worth mentioning in this report.

123. One of the top concerns raised was changes made to the BPHS after contract signature.
New training activities for the new mental health and disability components were required
after the changes made to the BPHS package in 2010 and these were not properly reimbursed.

124. NGOs raised the issue of losing trained health staff after training. Further, they had a
huge problem with recruiting female staff. NGOs had to incur extra costs for contracting
female staff from other provinces – and sometimes from neighboring Tajikistan- with added
expenditures for housing, transportation and day care for their children. This exponentially
increased costs for NGOs that were not accounted for in their contractual agreements.

125. Due to reporting requirements set by the MOF, and sometimes by the MOPH, the
financial flexibility of NGOs was rather limited. They could not take the full advantage of a

                                             25
lump-sum contract as they still had to report on the use of inputs and expenditures. Changes
to line item budgets were only allowed in rare circumstances and after lengthy negotiations.

126. NGOs pointed out that owing to the rapidly changing security situation, harsh long
winters and ill-equipped roads, immunization outreach efforts were severely hampered. This
also affected the physical accessibility of women trying to reach the facilities in due time for
delivery.

127. A common problem reported by NGOs was the ailing state of the public health facilities
and equipment. Some NGOs had to spend funds, generated from other non-project sources,
on renovations and simple medical equipment. Investments in Afghanistan’s physical health
infrastructure are still warranted.




                                              26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
          Components              Estimate         Estimate
                                                                     Appraisal
                                (US$ million)    (US$ million)
Component 1 - Sustaining and
Strengthening BPHS Delivery          13.9               14.9           107.1%
in rural areas
Component 2- Piloting BPHS
                                      3.5                2.37           68%
implementation in urban Kabul
Component 3- Implementation
                                      0.25                0.25         100%
and Management Support

          Total Project Costs          17.65             17.52         98.9%
   Total Financing Required            17.65             17.52         98.9%

(b) Financing
                                                        Actual/Latest
                        Type of Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage
  Source of Funds                                         Estimate
                      Cofinancing (US$ million)                       of Appraisal
                                                        (US$ million)
       JSDF Grant                         17.65            17.52          109%




                      (c) Original and disbursed expenditure categories
 Category Expenditure           Original        Revised
                               Allocation      Allocation   Actual Disbursement
                                 (US$)           (US$)              (US$)

   1      Sub-grants            17,400,000        14,900,000       14,882,732
   2      Consultants,           144,000           518,977
          Services &                                                557,543
          Training
   3      Goods                  50,000           1,312,251         1,050,624
   4      Operating Costs        56,000            918,772         1,029,743
 Total                                                             17,520,641
 Cancellation                                                        129,358
 Total Grant Amount                                                17,650,000




                                          27
(d) Disbursements for Funds under JSDF grant and other SHARP co-financers
Source    Appraisa Original           Revised     Cancelled Disbursed Undisbursed          %
          l amount amount with        (US$        (US$      (US$        (US$               Disbursed
          (US$       additional       million)    million)  million)    million)           (of
          million)   financing                                                             original)
                     after
                     appraisal
                     (US$ million)
TF-         $15.90       $17.65        $17.65        N/A      $17.52        $0.13           99.26%
95919
(JSDF)
                         Other financing that co-financed SHARP Project
IDA-        $30.00       $30.00        $29.99       $0.01    $30.905          $0             100%
H4690
IDA-         N/A         $49.00        $45.69       $3.31     $45.39        $0.36           92.6%
H5810
(CRW)
TF-         $69.10       $46.00        $46.00        N/A      $45.72        $0.28           99.9%
96362
(ARTF)
TF-         $11.00       $12.00        $12.00        N/A       $5.62        $6.74            47%
95691
(RBF)




 5
     Disbursed amount is more than the original due to SDR-US$ exchange rate difference.


                                                      28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. This annex discusses the project performance with regard to the intermediate outcomes
related to the specific components of the project. As discussed in the main body of the report
(Sections 2.3 and 3.2), in addition to seven PDO indicators, the project also used another set
of seven output indicators for Balkh and Samangan, within the larger SHARP operation to
measure: (a) sustaining and strengthening the delivery of the BPHS; (b) expanding the
delivery of the EPHS, (c) strengthening the MOPH stewardship functions, and (d) piloting
innovations. As for Urban Kabul, a trial was made to desegregate urban data from the overall
larger Kabul Province Data. Not all data was segregated, hence, both sets are presented.

The BSC domains summarize the health sector from the following six perspectives:
1. Client and Community
2. Human Resources
3. Physical Capacity
4. Quality of Service Provision
5. Management Systems
6. Overall Mission




                                             29
BALKH PROVINCE FINDINGS

Summary

Balkh province attained the upper benchmarks in only a single indicator of the twenty-two
BSC indicators in 2012-2013. For the overall BSC performance ranking, the province has
fallen from the 3rd in 2011-12 among the 33 provinces to the 24th place in 2012-13 among
the 34 provinces.

Areas of concern
    Revised Infrastructure Index
    Client Counseling Index
    Health Facility Management Functionality Index
    New Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index

Falling trend
    Community Involvement and Decision Making Index
    Salary Payment Current
    Revised Staff Received Training (over the past 12 months)
    Revised Infrastructure Index
    Client Counseling Index
    Time Spent with Client
    Revised HMIS Use Index
    Health Facility Management Functionality Index

Areas of achievement
    New Provider Knowledge Score

Rising trend
    New Provider Knowledge Score
    Revised Laboratory Functionality Index (CHCs only)




                                           30
                                                            BENCHMARKS                           BALKH
       AFGHANISTAN HEALTH SECTOR
      BPHS Balanced Scorecard 2004-2012/13                                                                     2009   2011   2012
                                                            LB     UB     2004   2005   2006   2007    2008
                                                                                                               /10    /12    /13
Domain A: Client and Community
      Overall Patient Satisfaction                          66.4   90.9   84.7   78.4   74.1   92.8    73.5    83.5    -      -

1.    Patient Perception of Quality Index                   66.2   83.9   80.0   74.8   80.5   87.0    77.4    79.2    -      -
    Overall Client Satisfaction and Perceived Quality
                                                            73.3   81.3    -      -      -       -       -      -     81.0   74.6
    of Care Index
    Written Shura-e-sehie activities in community           18.1   66.5   17.7   92.2   87.8   100.0   100.0   91.0    -      -
2.  Community Involvement and Decision Making
                                                            72.4   90.0    -      -      -       -       -      -     90.4   73.0
    Index
Domain B: Human Resources
      Health Worker Satisfaction Index                      56.1   67.9   68.3   72.9   73.6   84.5    59.5    66.2    -      -
3.
      Revised Health Worker Satisfaction Index              61.7   66.6    -      -      -       -       -      -     66.0   64.7
4.    Health Worker Motivation Index                        66.7   72.8    -      -      -       -       -      -     69.9   71.1
5.    Salary Payment Current                                52.4   92.0   53.3   90.3   78.9   89.9    60.2    47.9   97.2   78.0
      Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            10.1   54.0   45.8   77.9   81.7   83.0    84.3    95.0    -      -
      guidelines
6.
      Revised Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            11.4   33.3    -      -      -       -       -      -     25.7   26.2
      guidelines
      Provider Knowledge Score                              44.8   62.3   54.0   70.9   71.3   69.9      -      -      -      -
      Revised Provider Knowledge Score                      71.5   86.0    -      -      -       -     85.6     -      -      -
7.
      Revised Revised Provider Knowledge Score              61.9   77.7    -      -      -       -       -     74.2    -      -
      New Provider Knowledge Score                          59.4   67.6    -      -      -       -       -            66.4   73.6
    Staff received training in last year                    30.1   56.3   52.4   84.1   68.8   57.2    69.3    48.1    -      -
8.  Revised staff received training in last year (in last
                                                             7.1   14.9    -      -      -       -       -      -     17.6   9.8
    year)
Domain C: Physical Capacity
      Equipment Functionality Index                         61.3   90.0   67.3   86.1   86.4   95.6    81.9    80.6    -      -
9.
      Revised Equipment Functionality Index                 67.4   85.0    -      -      -       -       -      -     83.7   72.4
      Drug Availability Index                               53.3   81.8   56.1   84.0   63.8   94.3    82.2    80.1    -      -
10.
      Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Availability Index       71.8   88.6    -      -      -       -       -      -     77.6   72.3
      Laboratory Functionality Index (Hospitals &
                                                             5.6   31.7   0.0    63.6   67.3   71.4    74.4    57.0    -      -
      CHCs)
11.
      Revised Laboratory Functionality Index (CHCs
                                                            53.1   76.3    -      -      -       -       -      -     51.3   63.8
      only)
      Clinical Guidelines Index                             22.5   51.0   16.4   79.3   86.3   96.0    83.9    81.4    -      -
12.
      Revised Clinical Guidelines Index                     64.3   85.9    -      -      -       -       -      -     75.1   75.8
      Infrastructure Index                                  49.3   63.2   58.3   53.2   48.8   54.9    56.6    64.2    -      -
13.
      Revised Infrastructure Index                          48.9   73.4    -      -      -       -       -      -     59.1   28.6
Domain D: Quality of Service Provision
      Patient History and Physical Exam Index               55.1   83.5   85.4   71.3   80.0   82.1    83.2    79.6    -      -
14.   Client Background and Physical Assessment
                                                            66.7   81.2    -      -      -       -       -      -     77.1   78.7
      Index
      Patient Counseling Index                              23.3   48.9   55.3   28.9   37.0   54.3    60.5    26.6    -      -
15.
      Client Counseling Index                               31.7   58.5    -      -      -       -       -      -     58.5   31.0


                                                              31
      Proper Sharps Disposal                           34.1   85.0   75.1   96.1   95.9   100.0   6.7    60.7    -      -
16.
      Universal Precautions                            51.8   70.4    -      -      -       -      -      -     63.7   54.2
17.   Time Spent with Client                           3.5    31.2   27.3   1.6    5.5    32.6    49.5   7.3    35.0   15.4
Domain E: Management Systems
      HMIS Use Index                                   49.6   80.7   72.9   90.6   88.6   100.0   90.1   76.1    -      -
18.
      Revised HMIS Use Index                           66.1   86.2    -      -      -       -      -      -     91.0   77.4
19.   Financial Systems                                2.2    20.3    -      -      -       -      -      -     0.0    2.2
20.   Health Facility Management Functionality Index   40.0   57.6    -      -      -       -      -      -     57.6   36.6
Domain F: Overall Mission
      Outpatient Visit Concentration Index             48.0   52.7   48.7   49.6   49.5   50.1    48.2    -      -      -
21.
      New Outpatient Visit Concentration Index         46.2   56.9    -      -      -       -      -     54.3   51.8   52.3
      Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index         49.0   50.9   50.4   48.9   48.9   50.3    49.6    -      -      -
22.
      New Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index*    49.6   50.8    -      -      -       -      -     49.5   48.4   49.4
COMPOSITE SCORES
Percent of Upper Benchmarks Achieved                                 15.0   50.0   45.0   75.0    45.0   25.0   31.8   4.5
Percent of Lower Benchmarks Achieved                                 85.0   90.0   85.0   100.0   95.0   85.0   86.4   77.3
Overall Means (Provincial)                                           53.5   69.7   68.7   77.3    68.8   65.1   61.1   53.7




                                                        32
SAMANGAN PROVINCE FINDINGS

Summary
Samangan province attained the upper benchmarks in two of the twenty-two BSC indicators
in 2012-2013. For the overall BSC score, the province has considerably fallen from the 8th
in 2011- 12 among the 33 provinces to the 33rd rank in 2012-13 among the 34 provinces.

Areas of concern

      Health Worker Satisfaction Index
      Salary Payment Current
      Functional Infrastructure Index
      Client Counseling Index
      Universal Precautions
      Time Spent with Client
      HMIS Use Index
      Financial Systems
      Health Facility Management Functionality Index
      Outpatient Visit Concentration Index

Falling trend

      Health Worker Satisfaction Index
      Health Worker Motivation Index
      Salary Payment Current
      Staffing Index
      Equipment Functionality Index
      Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Availability Index
      Clinical Guidelines Index
      Client Counseling Index
      Universal Precautions
      Time Spent with Client
      HMIS Use Index
      Financial Systems
      Health Facility Management Functionality Index

Areas of achievement

      Provider Knowledge Score
      Client Satisfaction Concentration Index

Rising trend

      Client Satisfaction Concentration Index
    AFGHANISTAN HEALTH SECTOR            BENCHMARKS                    SAMANGAN


                                           33
      BPHS Balanced Scorecard 2004-2012/13                                                                      2009    2011   2012
                                                            LB     UB     2004   2005   2006    2007    2008
                                                                                                                /10     /12    /13
Domain A: Client and Community
      Overall Patient Satisfaction                          66.4   87.2   87.2   94.1   94.1    80.9    93.8    77.6     -      -

1.    Patient Perception of Quality Index                   66.2   83.9   74.9   79.4   67.5    83.1    90.2    72.5     -      -
    Overall Client Satisfaction and Perceived Quality
                                                            73.3   81.3    -      -       -       -       -       -     77.1   73.7
    of Care Index
    Written Shura-e-sehie activities in community           18.1   66.5   18.1   36.8   71.4     82.5   100.0 92.5       -      -
2.  Community Involvement and Decision Making
                                                            72.4   90.0    -      -       -       -       -       -     86.9   78.1
    Index
Domain B: Human Resources
      Health Worker Satisfaction Index                      56.1   67.9   69.1   68.6   68.3    75.5    68.3    65.2     -      -
3.
      Revised Health Worker Satisfaction Index              61.7   66.6    -      -       -       -       -       -     71.0   55.4
4.    Health Worker Motivation Index                        66.7   72.8    -      -       -       -       -       -     79.0   70.0
5.    Salary Payment Current                                52.4   92.0   57.2   97.7   100.0   100.0   100.0   93.4    70.7   52.1
      Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            10.1   54.0   26.2   63.5   70.9    40.6    62.3    80.7     -      -
      guidelines
6.
      Revised Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            11.4   33.3    -      -       -       -       -       -     34.0   28.3
      guidelines
      Provider Knowledge Score                              44.8   62.3   49.4   61.6   71.2    76.9      -       -      -      -
      Revised Provider Knowledge Score                      71.5   86.0    -      -       -       -     80.1      -      -      -
7.
      Revised Revised Provider Knowledge Score              61.9   77.7    -      -       -       -       -     67.0     -      -
      New Provider Knowledge Score                          59.4   67.6    -      -       -       -       -       -     71.9   72.4
    Staff received training in last year                    30.1   56.3   57.1   68.7   80.1    74.5    78.1    37.1     -      -
8.  Revised staff received training in last year (in last
                                                            7.1    14.9    -      -       -       -       -       -     9.7    7.4
    year)
Domain C: Physical Capacity
      Equipment Functionality Index                         61.3   90.0   74.4   73.2   80.7    93.7    80.9    91.1     -      -
9.
      Revised Equipment Functionality Index                 67.4   85.0    -      -       -       -       -       -     90.1   74.9
      Drug Availability Index                               53.3   81.8   74.4   95.1   89.3    97.4    100.0   84.4     -      -
10.
      Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Availability Index       71.8   88.6    -      -       -       -       -       -     90.1   77.6
      Laboratory Functionality Index (Hospitals &
                                                            5.6    31.7   5.6    48.4   50.2    40.5    76.1    52.5     -      -
      CHCs)
11.
      Revised Laboratory Functionality Index (CHCs
                                                            53.1   76.3    -      -       -       -       -       -     62.5   60.0
      only)
      Clinical Guidelines Index                             22.5   51.0   64.4   42.6   65.7    96.7    85.0    89.1     -      -
12.
      Revised Clinical Guidelines Index                     64.3   85.9    -      -       -       -       -       -     95.7   74.5
      Infrastructure Index                                  49.3   63.2   65.0   26.8   33.0    36.9    28.4    61.2     -      -
13.
      Revised Infrastructure Index                          48.9   73.4    -      -       -       -       -       -     45.3   28.6
Domain D: Quality of Service Provision
      Patient History and Physical Exam Index               55.1   83.5   67.2   86.6   81.3    89.0    99.2    74.6     -      -
14.   Client Background and Physical Assessment
                                                            66.7   81.2    -      -       -       -       -       -     74.4   75.5
      Index
      Patient Counseling Index                              23.3   48.9   29.6   45.4   30.0    48.6    96.4    28.2     -      -
15.
      Client Counseling Index                               31.7   58.5    -      -       -       -       -       -     41.4   24.3
      Proper Sharps Disposal                                34.1   85.0   62.2   27.9   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    -      -
16.
      Universal Precautions                                 51.8   70.4    -      -       -       -       -       -     64.8   41.2


                                                             34
17.   Time Spent with Client                           3.5        31.2   38.7   18.9   19.7   29.4   82.4   0.0    4.4    0.5
Domain E: Management Systems
      HMIS Use Index                                   49.6       80.7   69.4   40.9   92.2   93.2   98.3   95.1    -      -
18.
      Revised HMIS Use Index                           66.1       86.2    -      -      -      -      -      -     78.3   54.0
19.   Financial Systems                                2.2        20.3    -      -      -      -      -      -     0.0    0.0
20.   Health Facility Management Functionality Index   40.0       57.6    -      -      -      -      -      -     54.1   36.2
Domain F: Overall Mission
      Outpatient Visit Concentration Index             48.0       52.7   57.0   57.5   51.3   52.7   52.2    -      -      -
21.
      New Outpatient Visit Concentration Index         46.2       56.9    -      -      -      -      -     51.9   43.9   44.7
      Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index         49.0       50.9   48.5   49.9   48.9   49.1   50.1    -      -      -
22.
      New Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index*    49.6       50.8    -      -      -      -      -     50.0   50.0   50.8
COMPOSITE SCORES
Percent of Upper Benchmarks Achieved                          -          30.0   45.0   55.0   70.0   75.0   45.0   31.8   9.1
Percent of Lower Benchmarks Achieved                          -          95.0   85.0   90.0   95.0   95.0   95.0   86.4   54.5
Overall Means (Provincial)                                    -          54.8   59.2   67.1   72.1   81.1   68.2   58.9   49.1




                                                        35
KABUL PROVINCE FINDINGS

Summary

Kabul province attained the upper benchmarks in three of the twenty-two BSC indicators in
2012-2013. For the overall BSC score, the province has risen from the 32nd in 2011-12
among the 33 provinces to the 29th rank in 2012-13 among the 34 provinces.

Areas of concern

      Community Involvement and Decision Making Index
      Staffing Index
      Staff Received Training (in last year)
      Equipment Functionality Index
      Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Availability Index
      Clinical Guidelines Index
      Universal Precautions
      Time Spent with Client
      HMIS Use Index
      Financial Systems
      Client Satisfaction Concentration Index

Falling trend

      Staffing Index
      Staff Received Training (in last year)
      Outpatient Visit Concentration Index
      Client Satisfaction Concentration Index

Areas of achievement

      Provider Knowledge Score
      Functional Infrastructure Index
      Client Background and Physical Assessment Index

Rising trend

      Salary Payment Current
      Provider Knowledge Score
      Laboratory Functionality Index (CHCs only)
      Functional Infrastructure Index
      Client Background and Physical Assessment Index
      Client Counseling Index
      Health Facility Management Functionality Index


                                           36
                                                            BENCHMARKS                              KABUL
       AFGHANISTAN HEALTH SECTOR
      BPHS Balanced Scorecard 2004-2012/13                                                                           2009     2011   2012
                                                            LB     UB     2004   2005     2006     2007     2008
                                                                                                                     /10      /12    /13
Domain A: Client and Community
      Overall Patient Satisfaction                          66.4   90.9   84.8   75.6     74.8     76.3     82.6     81.9      -      -
1.    Patient Perception of Quality Index                   66.2   83.9   86.9   72.8     86.5     80.9     71.6     82.7      -      -
    Overall Client Satisfaction and Perceived Quality                                 -        -        -        -        -
                                                            73.3   81.3    -                                                  76.0   74.7
    of Care Index
    Written Shura-e-sehie activities in community           18.1   66.5   33.3   80.1     59.8      53.7    29.6     39.2      -      -
2.  Community Involvement and Decision Making
                                                            72.4   90.0    -          -        -        -        -        -   44.3   56.2
    Index
Domain B: Human Resources
      Health Worker Satisfaction Index                      56.1   67.9   68.8   66.1     78.4     62.3     60.2     61.2      -      -
3.
      Revised Health Worker Satisfaction Index              61.7   66.6    -      -        -        -        -        -       61.7   62.4
4.    Health Worker Motivation Index                        66.7   72.8    -      -        -        -        -        -       71.3   71.1
5.    Salary Payment Current                                52.4   92.0   52.4   91.4     94.8     93.3     50.3     62.9     62.7   89.5
      Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            10.1   54.0   54.0   79.7     85.3     77.2     73.4     94.8      -      -
      guidelines
6.
      Revised Staffing Index – Meeting minimum staff
                                                            11.4   33.3    -      -        -        -        -        -       11.4   10.9
      guidelines
      Provider Knowledge Score                              44.8   62.3   59.1   73.8     78.5     73.3      -        -        -      -
      Revised Provider Knowledge Score                      71.5   86.0    -      -        -        -       82.2      -        -      -
7.
      Revised Revised Provider Knowledge Score              61.9   77.7    -      -        -        -        -       65.4      -      -
      New Provider Knowledge Score                          59.4   67.6    -      -        -        -        -        -       67.1   72.3
    Staff received training in last year                    30.1   56.3   36.6   76.5     68.0     66.8     45.0     46.4      -      -
8.  Revised staff received training in last year (in last
                                                             7.1   14.9    -      -        -        -        -        -       7.1    4.5
    year)
Domain C: Physical Capacity
      Equipment Functionality Index                         61.3   90.0   75.6   80.8     80.8     83.2     74.3     84.9      -      -
9.
      Revised Equipment Functionality Index                 67.4   85.0    -      -        -        -        -        -       61.0   63.8
      Drug Availability Index                               53.3   81.8   76.8   71.3     86.8     69.6     66.5     91.7      -      -
10.
      Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Availability Index       71.8   88.6    -      -        -        -        -        -       67.4   69.8
      Laboratory Functionality Index (Hospitals &
                                                             5.6   31.7   30.4   44.1     43.7     41.6     51.7     42.4      -      -
      CHCs)
11.
      Revised Laboratory Functionality Index (CHCs
                                                            53.1   76.3    -      -        -        -        -        -       52.1   61.3
      only)
      Clinical Guidelines Index                             22.5   51.0   38.4   64.9     60.7     77.7     62.3     63.4      -      -
12.
      Revised Clinical Guidelines Index                     64.3   85.9    -      -        -        -        -        -       59.3   63.9
      Infrastructure Index                                  49.3   63.2   56.5   55.1     53.4     41.2     39.5     76.8      -      -
13.
      Revised Infrastructure Index                          48.9   73.4    -      -        -        -        -        -       71.3   77.6
Domain D: Quality of Service Provision
      Patient History and Physical Exam Index               55.1   83.5   70.6   79.7     92.4     92.6     63.6     80.1      -      -
14.   Client Background and Physical Assessment
                                                            66.7   81.2    -      -        -        -        -        -       66.7   89.8
      Index
      Patient Counseling Index                              23.3   48.9   37.5   52.0     64.8     65.4     35.0     35.0      -      -
15.
      Client Counseling Index                               31.7   58.5    -      -        -        -        -        -       28.8   35.3
16.   Proper Sharps Disposal                                34.1   85.0   54.4   59.7     66.1     65.9     44.6     89.6      -      -


                                                              37
      Universal Precautions                            51.8       70.4     -       -       -      -      -      -     44.1   40.9
17.   Time Spent with Client                           3.5        31.2   31.2    19.0    25.1    5.9    0.7    3.3    0.8    0.0
Domain E: Management Systems
      HMIS Use Index                                   49.6       80.7   80.7    63.6    62.8    61.0   60.3   71.1    -      -
18.
      Revised HMIS Use Index                           66.1       86.2     -       -       -      -      -      -     53.7   44.7
19.   Financial Systems                                2.2        20.3     -       -       -      -      -      -     10.0   10.1
20.   Health Facility Management Functionality Index   40.0       57.6     -       -       -      -      -      -     32.1   42.2
Domain F: Overall Mission
      Outpatient Visit Concentration Index             48.0       52.7   51.9    50.6    50.0    49.9   55.3    -      -      -
21.
      New Outpatient Visit Concentration Index         46.2       56.9     -       -       -      -      -     62.6   61.1   55.9
      Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index         49.0       50.9   49.9    50.9    50.6    50.0   49.3    -      -      -
22.
      New Patient Satisfaction Concentration Index*    49.6       50.8     -       -       -      -      -     49.9   50.4   48.8
COMPOSITE SCORES
Percent of Upper Benchmarks Achieved                          -          20.0    35.0    60.0    40.0   20.0   35.0   4.5    13.6
Percent of Lower Benchmarks Achieved                          -          100.0   100.0   100.0   90.0   85.0   95.0   54.5   54.5
Overall Means (Provincial)                                    -          56.5    65.4    69.2    64.4   54.9   64.3   48.2   52.1




                                                        38
                                     Project Indicator Analysis – Urban Kabul HFs


                                                                                                   End line (HMIS & BSC -
                                                                                                         Urban HFs)
                                             Baselin                     Target
                                             e Kabul                   Kabul Urban
                                              Urban                       HFs          Data       2012       2013       Data
         Indicator(1)                         HFs(2)     Target        (Numerical)   Source(3)                         Source
1. Patients & Community
              1           Patient             74.7     + 10% from         82.2       BSC 2009     81.8       87.9      BSC -
                          Satisfaction (5)               baseline                      -10                             urban
                                                                                                                       HFs (4)
             2            Number of            0          660              660        HMIS         66         80       HMIS*
                          active CHWs
2. Capacity for Service
Provision
             3            Drugs               95.0     + 10% point        100.0      BSC 2009     60.0       92.0      BSC -
                          availability                     from                        -10                             urban
                          index                          baseline                                                      HFs (4)
                          (availability of
                          essential
                          drugs)
             4            Equipment           69.6     + 10% point        76.6       BSC 2009     67.9       64.3      BSC -
                          Functionality                    from                        -10                             urban
                          index (6)                      baseline                                                      HFs (4)
             5            Provider            NA       + 10% point          -        BSC 2009      not       not       BSC -
                          knowledge                        from                        -10       availab   available   urban
                          score (7)                      baseline                                   le                  HFs




                                                                  39
             6         Score on the       NA       + 10% point      -      BSC 2009     not       not       BSC -
                       balanced                        from                  -10      availab   available   urban
                       scorecard                     baseline                            le                  HFs
                       examining
                       quality of care
                       in HFs (8)
3. Service Provision
             7         Outpatient        614,118   + 10% from    675,530    HMIS      727,77    829,517     HMIS**
                       visits (15)                   baseline                            6
             8         Number of          5,081    + 10% from     5,589     HMIS       5,953     5,244      HMIS**
                       deliveries (9)                baseline
             9         Number of         40,929    + 10% from    45,022     HMIS      39,918     35,916     HMIS**
                       pregnant                      baseline
                       woman
                       receiving at
                       least one ANC
                       visit
            10         Number of         23,408    + 10% from    25,749     HMIS      21,923     24,904     HMIS**
                       new users of                  baseline
                       contraceptives
                       (10)

            11         Number of         54,803    + 10% from    60,283     HMIS      50,897     49,390     HMIS**
                       children < 1                  baseline
                       received DPT3
                       (11)

            12         Number of         119,015   + 10% from    130,917    HMIS      188,73    115,370     HMIS**
                       children < 5                  baseline                           4
                       receiving
                       nutrition
                       screening (12)




                                                            40
                13                  Number of            215       + 10% point           237            HMIS          173         319        HMIS**
                                    TB+ cases                         from
                                    successfully                     baseline
                                    treated (13)
  3. Overall Vision
               14                   Outpatient           not       + 10% point      not available     BSC 2009        not        not          BSC -
                                    Equity Index       availabl       from                              -10          availa    available      urban
                                    (14)
                                                          e          baseline                                         ble                     HFs (4)

Notes:

(1) Based on Final Urban BPHS Proposal, August, 2011

(2) Based on disaggregation of urban Kabul HFs only, from BSC 2009/2010 data - urban HFs from the project represented ~30-40% of the total HFs sampled
in Kabul province and ~20-25% of total project urban HFs; used JHU 2008 methodology to recalculate baseline for urban Kabul HFs - proxy indices/variables
were used if exact methodology could not be replicated; HMIS data of 32 urban Kabul health facilities (72%) for period of year 1390 (2011). 2011 was used
as the baseline instead of the originally proposed 2010 data given project implementation did not actually beginning until 2012 and not all urban Kabul HFs
had reported in 2013.

(3) Based on Kabul province Balanced Score in 2009-2010 – JHU/IIHMR and HMIS data of 32 urban Kabul health facilities (72%) for period of year 1390
(2011)

(4) Based on disaggregation of urban Kabul HFs only, from BSC 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 data (district hospitals not included) - urban HFs from the project
represented ~30-45% of the total HFs sampled in Kabul province (exact urban HFs varied in samples year to year) and ~20-25% of the total project urban
HFs; used JHU 2008 methodology to calculate new indicators for urban Kabul HFs - proxy variables were used if exact methodology could not be replicated

(5) For baseline, used BSC data variable "your overall visit was satisfactory" (q152); for 2012 and 2013 used BSC data variable "how satisfied are you with
your overall visit?" as proxy for overall satisfaction (q152a)

(6) Used BSC data variable "stethoscope & blood pressure cuff" instead of "blood pressure instrument" per 2008 JHU Toolkit methodology, for one of the
variables in the index, to remain consistent for all years (variable "blood pressure instrument" was no longer available in 2012 and 2013)




                                                                               41
(7) As JHU Toolkit methodology was unavailable for 2009-2013 this index was unable to be disaggregated into urban Kabul HFs for 2009-2013 (methodology
and variables listed in the 2008 JHU Toolkit for this index were unavailable in the 2009-2013 BSC data set)

(8) This index (and its variables) was not present in the JHU 2008 Toolkit nor BSC data sets 2009-2013 and an overall BSC score was unable to be
disaggregated for urban Kabul HFs only.

(9) Used "total institutional deliveries" from HMIS data

(10) "Current users of contraceptives" was unavailable in the HMIS data as originally proposed, so "new users of contraceptives" was used instead

(11) Used "Penta3 0-11 months" from HMIS data

(12) Used "<5 screened for nutrition" from HMIS data

(13) Used "total number of TB cases completed and smeared (-)" from HMIS data
(14) This index was unable to be disaggregated since JHU Toolkit methodology was unavailable for 2009-2013 BSC data

(15) Used "OPD Consultations (new cases)" from HMIS data

NA = Not available in BSC 2009-2010
* Data provided by MOPH-SM Unit

** HMIS data from only 32 HFs (72%) was used in the analysis for the service utilization indicators due to an increase in overall reporting from
2011 - 2013. These 32 HFs represent those facilities who reported consistently throughout 2011 - 2013.




                                                                               42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The scope of analysis for this report is limited to the commentary on cost-effectiveness
of the BPHS interventions supported by the project and fiscal space available for sustaining
funding of the BPHS.

2. According to the 2010 global burden of disease estimates from the Institute of Health
Metrics and Evaluation6, the health conditions addressed by these interventions account for
about 59.5% of the disease burden in Afghanistan. The figure below represents 25 top leading
causes of diseases burden in the country in 2010 and the changes that have occurred since
1990.




3. The BPHS design favors community based health services with an emphasis on health
services delivered by health posts, basic health centers, mobile health teams, comprehensive
health clinics and district hospitals. All of these service delivery modalities are least costly,
closer to the community, most accessible by the poor population groups and capable of
delivering the most cost-effective interventions to tackle Afghanistan’s burden of disease.
Community health workers, nurses, and midwives are the backbone of the BPHS in terms of
health care personnel, which makes it much less costly model of care compared to ones where
physicians are the main health care providers.



6
    http://www.healthmetricsandevaluation.org/gbd/visualizations/gbd-cause-patterns

                                                      43
4. With regard to effectiveness and efficiency, the services included in the BPHS are
consistent with international best-practice based on the available global evidence. Most
interventions supported by the project under the BPHS fall under the cost-effectiveness ratio
of $100 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted which is considered a very good
value for money. The table below summarizes cost-effectiveness ratio estimates for some of
the key health interventions included in the BPHS7:

                                  BPHS component                              US$/DALY

              Maternal and newborn health
                  Antenatal and delivery care                                         38-63
                      incl. routine maternity care                                      125
                  Postpartum care
                  Family planning                                                     25-38
                  Care of the newborn                                                11-265
              Child health and immunization
                  Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI)                                 16
                  Integrated Management of Childhood Illness                          38-63
                  (IMCI)
                      incl. ARI treatment (community)                                   140
                      incl. ARI treatment (PHC facility)                                 28
              Public Nutrition
                  Prevention of malnutrition
                      incl. breastfeeding promotion                                    8-11
                      incl. vitamin A supplementation                                  6-12
                  Assessment of malnutrition
                      incl. growth monitoring                                          8-11
                  Treatment of malnutrition
              Communicable disease treatment and control
                  Control of tuberculosis (DOTS)                                        5-50
                  Control of malaria                                                      24
                  Control of HIV (VCT)                                                    10



5. The MOPH has carried out cost analysis of the BPHS in 2012. According to this study,
the per capita expenditure for the BPHS is, on average, US$2.57 and ranges from US$1.44
(district hospitals) to US$4.56 (health sub-center):


                                                       Per capita cost by facility (US$)


7
  Source is various studies cited by Jamison et al. (eds.) (2008) Disease Control Priorities in Developing
Countries, Second Edition, World Bank and Oxford University Press, Washington and New York. Estimates
for South Asia are provided when available. Otherwise, the estimates are for low-income countries. Estimates
are in 2002 US$

                                                    44
    Health sub-center                                4.56
    Basic health center                              1.99
    Comprehensive health center                      2.28
    District hospital                                1.44


6. The difference in the per capita cost between the health centers could be due to
differences in population characteristics and case-mix. The estimated per-capita cost of the
BPHS is low compared to estimates of US$5-10 per capita annually required to provide a
package of services for health related MDGs.

7. It is interesting to compare the estimates of the per capita cost of delivery of the BPHS
from 2012 study with that from an earlier study by O. Ameli and W. Newbrander carried out
in 2006-2007. The latter study mostly focused on the provinces supported by USAID, while
the 2012 study mostly focused on the provinces supported by the Bank project. The average
per capita cost of the BPHS by the O. Ameli and W. Newbrander study was estimated at
US$3.78, which indicates that the BPHS delivered through the WB supported project was
cheaper while producing the same outcomes (thus more cost-effective). One of the reasons
for this could be that under SHARP the NGO contracts were set at the province level, which
could be more efficient than contracts to support lower aggregates of population (often the
case in the USAID supported program).

8. In terms of the cost structure of the BPHS, according to 2012 cost analysis, wages and
salaries account for 40%, followed by drugs and disposables (21%), operational expenses
(21%), governance and monitoring (13%), and training and capital investments (5%). Such
a breakdown is comparable to expenditures in the rest of the developing world. For example
according to WHO estimates produced for the World Health Report 2006, developing
countries generally spend about 42.2% on wages and salaries of the health care workforce8.
The share of the wages and salaries would have been even less than 40% had the security
situation been better. Because of highly insecurity the NGOs need to pay higher salary to the
contracted staff to attract them to the vacant positions.

9. Afghanistan’s fiscal space is significantly constrained and the country is unlikely to be
able to finance the BPHS from domestic resources alone in the medium-term horizon.
According to the most recent data, Afghanistan spends 9.6% of its GDP on health, which
translates to US$50.5 (in PPP terms) per capita. The share of government spending allocated
to health is only 3.3% percent, which is quite low compared to the average for low income


8
 Measuring Expenditures for Health Workforce: Evidence and Challenges. Patricia Hernandez, Sigrid Dräger,
David B. Evans, Tessa Tan-Torres Edejer and Mario R. Dal Poz. Background paper prepared for the world
health report 2006 - working together for health. World Health Organization. 2006.




                                                  45
countries (9.3%). Many countries with comparable income levels allocate a greater share of
public resources to health: Benin – 10.5%, Burkina Faso – 12.8%, Mali – 12.2%, Haiti –
9.9%, Nepal – 9.6%, etc.) , it is far low from the average for the low income countries (9.3%).
In the total health expenditures (THE), government sources of funding account for 15.6 %;
donor sources for 16.4%; and private sources for 84%. The out-of-pocket spending on health
is 94% of the total private spending.

10. The following tables represents the breakdown of total health expenditures and
government health expenditures by functional categories, based on the 2009 NHA (more
recent data is not available). It is interesting to note that 22% of the government health
expenditures are spent on prevention, which is higher than in many countries of the
comparable group:

            Breakdown of the total health expenditures by functional areas
 Functional areas                           % of THE
 Curative care                              59%
 Pharmaceuticals                            28%
 Prevention and public health programs      5%
 Health administration                      5%
 Capital formation                          2%
 Other                                      1%

        Breakdown of the government health expenditures by functional areas
 Functional areas                        % of GHE
 Curative care                           45%
 Ancillary services                      0.2%
 Prevention and public health programs   22%
 Health administration                   20%
 Capital formation                       7%
 Education and training of health care   3%
 personnel
 Research and development                0.6%
 Other                                   2%

11. In the medium-term Afghanistan will need to depend significantly on donor assistance in
order to be able to sustain funding of its health sector, including the delivery of the BPHS.
Such external funding is most likely to continue, but gradually Afghanistan should look for
ways to increase domestic funding of health from public sources. Hopefully if the security
situation improves the government may shift a portion of the substantial funding (more than
40% of the total government expenditures) that is currently spent on security into health and
other social sectors.




                                              46
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)   Task Team Members

                                                                  Responsibility/
         Names                         Title              Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Inaam Ul Haq             Program Leader                  SACPK Public Health
                         Senior Financial Management           Financial
Kenneth O. Okpara                                        GGODR
                         Specialist                            Management
Abdul Rahman Shafiee     Program Assistant               SACKB Administrative
Aimal Sherzad            Procurement Specialist          GGODR Procurement
Arun Kumar Kolsur        Senior Procurement Specialist   GGODR Procurement
                         Senior Financial Management           Financial
Asha Narayan                                             GGODR
                         Specialist                            Management
Asif Ali                 Senior Procurement Specialist   GGODR Procurement
Asif Qurishi             Executive Assistant             SACKB Administrative
Cornelis P. Kostermans   Lead Health Specialist          GHNDR Public Health
Dolly Aziz               Operations Officer              GPSOS Operations
Sayed Ghulam Dastagir    Senior Health Specialist        GHNDR Public Health
Mariam Haidary           Program Assistant               SACKB Administrative
Mohammad Tawab
                         Senior Health Specialist        GHNDR Public Health
Hashemi
                                                               Social
Mohammad Yasin Noori     Social Development Specialist   GSURR
                                                               Development
                         Senior Financial Management           Financial
Nargis Mohammad Yousaf                                   GGODR
                         Specialist                            Management
Silvia M. Albert         Temporary                       GSURR Administrative
Tekabe Ayalew Belay      Senior Economist                GHNDR Economics
Toufiq Ahmed             Senior Procurement Specialist   GGODR Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Inaam Ul Haq             Program Leader                  SACPK Public Health
Mohammad Tawab
                         Senior Health Specialist        GHNDR Public Health
Hashemi
Sayed Ghulam Dastagir    Senior Health Specialist        GHNDR Public Health
Amr Elshalakani          Health Specialist               GHNDR Public Health
Saeda Jeddi              Temporary                       GHNDR Administrative
Habibullah Ahmadzai      Consultant                      GHNDR Public Health
Sayed Ahmad Gawhari
                         Consultant                      GHNDR Public Health
Sayed
Lori A. Geurts           Operations Analyst              GHNDR Operations



                                        47
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                               USD (including travel
 Stage of Project Cycle   No. of staff weeks
                                               and consultant costs)

 Lending

 FY10                           14.06                38,057.51

 FY11                           9.51                 34,666.87

 FY12                           1.44                  625.72

 FY13                           1.10                 5,099.26

 FY14                           0.05                  125.28

         Total:                 26.15                78,574.63

 Supervision/ICR

 FY12                           7.06                 24,468.05

 FY13                           3.66                 10,946.68

 FY14                           3.13                 13,136.55

 FY15                                                4,688.78

         Total:                 13.85                53,240.05




                                        48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. As discussed earlier in the main body of the report, in 2012 the JHU carried out a
household survey as the final end-of-project evaluation survey. The MOPH was not fully
satisfied with the survey as the sampling size was small and did not allow province level
analysis, and the survey was carried out too early thereby missing out 2013 performance of
the project. Nevertheless for most of the project indicators the survey produced satisfactory
estimates. A detailed analysis of the PDO related indicators is provided in Section 2.3 of this
report. In this annex executive summary of the JHU survey is quoted in its original form:

2. The 2012 Afghanistan Household Survey (AHS) report presents the results of a national
household survey designed to provide information on maternal and child health, family
planning, child survival, health care utilization, and health-related expenditures in
Afghanistan. It is based on a multi-stage random sample of 12,137 households across all 34
provinces of Afghanistan, and includes 14,551 women aged 12-49 years and 14,589 children
under age 5 years, and was conducted between July and December, 2013.

3. The MOPH identified a set of key health indicators for the survey, with national level
estimates shown below (Table 1). Provincial level estimates are also presented in the report.




                                              49
TRENDS IN MATERNAL CHILD HEALTH INDICATORS

4. To compare trends in maternal child health coverage over time in Afghanistan, we
compare the rural population (92% in the AHS 2012 sample) to previous household survey
results in Afghanistan, although there remain some differences in definitions of indicators
across the surveys. Figure 1 demonstrates the trends in key maternal health indicators since
2003. Antenatal care coverage has been generally increasing since 2003, with the most recent
estimate for rural Afghanistan at 48.5%. Skilled birth attendance and institutional deliveries
are both rising, to 40.5% and 32.4% respectively. The percent of women receiving two doses
of tetanus toxoid during pregnancy is very different across surveys, with only 31.7% of rural
women who delivered in the last two years able to document two doses in the AHS 2012.
The level of contraceptive prevalence remains very low, with only 11.4% of rural women
using modern contraception in 2012.




                                             50
Figure 1. Trends in the Coverage of Maternal Health Indicators in Rural Afghanistan




5. Figure 2 shows the trends in childhood immunization coverage in rural Afghanistan
based on household surveys. The last household survey to show childhood vaccination
coverage across rural Afghanistan occurred in 2007. BCG coverage and DPT/Pentavalent 3
coverage have continued to increase, though still below desirable levels (80% for BCG and
45% for DPT/Pentavalent 3). Measles vaccine coverage increased since 2007, but at 59%
coverage, is still below coverage rates from the early 2000s. Similarly, OPV3 vaccine
coverage is declining, and now stands at 48%, whereas full childhood vaccination is still very
low at 29%.




                                             51
       Figure 2. Trends in Child Immunization Coverage in Rural Afghanistan




6. Figure 3 shows the trends in other child health indicators. Data on complementary
feeding shows that the proportion of children aged 6-9 months who had timely
complementary feeding continues to increase, with about 58% of children now getting
complementary feeding. The reported percent of children under five with diarrhea has gone
down from 30% in 2003 to 23% in 2013, but this can be due to seasonal differences as well
as differences in perception of illness over time. The proportion of children with acute
respiratory infection in the last two week is also similar to diarrhea prevalence in 2013.
Appropriate treatment of diarrhea increased from 53% in 2013 to 69% in 2013. The
proportion of children with ARI who seek treatment outside the home has doubled since
2003, and is now estimated at 59%.




                                           52
           Figure 3. Trends in Child Health Indicators in Rural Afghanistan




ILLNESS AND INJURIES, CARE-SEEKING BEHAVIOR AND PERCEPTIONS

Illness and injuries in the past two weeks

7. Of 91,792 household members, 13,973 (15%) were reported to have been sick in the two
weeks prior to the survey. 31% of children under 5 years of age were reported to have
experienced illness. Diarrhea, fever, cough/difficulty breathing, and musculoskeletal
problems were the most prevalent primary complaints reported for all age groups, at 18%,
17%, 12%, and 9%, respectively. The most prevalent primary complaints for the under-fives
were diarrhea (45%), fever (25%), cough/difficulty breathing (14%), and nausea/vomiting
(5%).

Treatment seeking outside the home

8. Among all individuals that reported illness in the two weeks prior to the survey, 83
percent were reported to have sought treatment outside of the home. Of the 2,444 individuals
that were ill in the last two weeks and who did not seek care outside of the home

9. 50% thought the illness would go away by itself; 34% reported that the transportation
was too expensive; and 29% reported that the health facilities were too far from their home.
The three commonest facility types from which people sought care were private clinic or
hospital (40%), BPHS clinic (28%), and EPHS Hospital (16%). The largest proportion (43%)


                                             53
of those over-five sought care at a private clinic/hospital, while the most (34%) of the under-
fives were taken to a BPHS clinic.

Hospitalization in the past 12 months

10. Out of the 91,792 household members, about 2.2% reported having been hospitalized in
the 12 months period prior to the survey. Out of the 2,008 household members that were
hospitalized in the 12 months prior to the survey, 56.5% was for medical illness, 24.8% for
surgery, and 7.7% for childhood illnesses. Overall, distribution between EPHS hospitals and
private hospitals was fairly equal (56.7% versus 43.3%, respectively).

Perception of community health workers

11. Of the 14,613 eligible women in the sample, nearly 80% were found to be unaware of
Community Health Workers or Health-Posts in their vicinity. This was consistent almost
throughout all age groups and wealth quintiles. Of the 8755 eligible women who fell sick in
the last two weeks and sought care, over three quarters (79.9%) were not aware of a CHW
or Health-post in their vicinity. Among women who were aware of CHWs or Health-posts
in their vicinity over 80% responded that they ‘Agreed’ or ‘Completely Agreed’ that CHWs
provide useful services to the community.

HEALTH EXPENDITURES

Out-of-pocket expenditures on health

12. Information was collected for each household member who sought care outside the home
on payments made for the care seeking episode. These payments include money spent on
registration, consultation, tests (including labs and x-rays), drugs and supplies,
transportation, and food and lodging. The median of the total amount spent per each care-
seeking episode was 700 Afghanis. Median amounts spent per care-seeking episode were
fairly stable across the five wealth quintiles with those in the poorest and wealthiest quintiles
paying more than the other three groups. The overall mean total expenditure was 3279
Afghanis. Mean expenditures appeared to be fairly consistent across wealth quintiles for
drugs and supplies, food, and transportation categories.

Out-of-pocket expenditures for hospitalization (last 12 months)

13. The median total expenditure spent on hospitalization was 5000 Afghanis. The median
total expenditure was highest for those in the poorest quintile, and decreased with increasing
wealth status. The mean total expenditure was 15,764 Afghanis. Respondents in the highest
wealth quintile also reported the highest mean total expenditure.

Distress financing on health

14. Distress financing is defined as households spending over and above their regular savings
and budget on health care. This includes borrowing money from friends and family, selling
or mortgaging household possessions and land. About 49% of those that were reported to

                                               54
have been hospitalized in the last 12 months prior to the survey reported some form of
distress financing. Differences in proportions were found to be statistically significant when
comparing the lowest wealth quintile (66.0%) to three other wealth quintiles (second: 43.2%;
middle: 39.0%; and highest: 39.6%).

Severe distress financing on health

15. Severe distress financing only included those who sold assets and not those who
borrowed money in order to pay for medical care. Of those who reported to have been
hospitalized in the last 12 months prior to the survey, 14.6% reported some form of severe
distress financing. The only statistically significant difference in proportions reporting severe
distress financing occurred between those in the lowest and highest quintiles of wealth status
(22.5% versus 7.9%, respectively).




                                               55
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                      56
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(Unedited original evaluation report submitted by the Borrower)


PROJECT PURPOSE

   I. To consolidate and expand access to the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS),
      especially by the poor women and children, in urban area of Kabul province;

   II. To improve the quality of health care and health services at BPHS facilities in urban
       area of Kabul province.


OUTPUTS
   1. The BPHS services consolidated and expanded, and its access increased to the urban
      poor people in urban Kabul.

   2. The quality of BPHS services in Kabul urban area improved to the extent that the
      client satisfaction increased and the service utilization level improved.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT
Overall Management and Organizational Structure

The Project implemented by MoH through using Strengthening Mechanism through
KPPHD. Although the Deputy Minister of Ministry of Public Health had the role of the
project Manager, the KPPHD had overall responsibility for the project implementation
through its provincial health officers and technical assistants provided under this project. For
the implementation of urban BPHS (UHM) in urban Kabul, the Director of KPPHD played
the role of project Coordinator. He was reporting to the Deputy Minister for Health Service
Provision.

In the proposal the GCMU was supposed to provide technical support through its Monitoring
and leading Urban Health (UH) consultants who closely work with KPHD to:

   I.      Follow up procurement and financial management process to undertake within
           the allocated time schedule and ensure that the biding process of health services
           procurement is undertaking under Bank procurement & consultant guidelines
           dated January 2011.
   II.     Oversight the project implementation process to ensure the project is on schedule,
           MoH standards are maintained, and on allocated resources.
   III.    Ensure the project activities are coordinated through Kabul urban health working
           group and other coordination mechanism are in place
   IV.     Make sure that, the information and data produced by the project progress is
           communicating on a regular base internally and to donor.


                                              57
However, during the project implementation MoH-SM had the overall responsibilities of
financial, procurement, and technical issues. The JICA-Urban Health System Strengthening
Project (JICA-UHSSP) had provided the technical assistance for both MoH and KPPHD,
under the agreement between Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the government of Japan
for the pilot implementation of this project in urban Kabul. JICA-UHSSP aimed to strengthen
health system suitable for urban Kabul areas.

Technical Assistant Staff in KPHD

The technical assistant (Technical Consultant) positioned in KPHD. They supported staffs
for implementation of the project. The below table shows number and position of technical
staff’s hired under this project.

               Table 1: Number and position of Technical Assistant Staff

         S#               Position                            Number

          1   Technical Adviser                                   1

          2   Financial Adviser                                   1

          3   Procurement Consultant                              1

          4   RH Consultant                                       1

          5   Master Trainer                                      1

          6   Supply Supervisor                                   1

          7   HMIS Assistant                                      1

              Total                                               7



Monitoring and Supervision System

Monitoring and supervision system followed by the urban health team and by the provincial
public health directorate officers was partially functional in the beginning of the project and
was gradually improved over the project period. Monitoring and supervision visits
conducted at least one per quarter from each health facility. Monitoring was done through an
assessment checklist which helped in evaluating the services provided by the health facilities.
Though monitoring of the health facilities was the responsibility of all authorities such as
health facility directors and other relevant managerial staff. During the monitoring and
supervision the strength and weakness of the health services provision were identified and
corrective measures were taken to improve the services. In addition, appropriate and on time
feedback was provided to the health facilities staff after each visit.

                                              58
In addition to that; health providers even stressed that the monitoring system was weak for
hospital. They also mentioned that health Shuras sometimes supervised their activities and
gave feedback on the services.


PROJECT OUTCOME

The urban BPHS project’s planned outcome was to contribute to the SHARP overall
objective of improving the health and nutrition status of the people of Afghanistan, with a
greater focus on women and children and under-served areas of the country. Overall, the
project outcome was only partially achieved, particularly in its last year of implementation,
since progress was slow in the initial two years. The project’s three planned outputs were
only partially achieved:

     a) Development of Urban Health Model
     b) Implementation of UHM
     c) Improving quality of urban BPHS and increasing service utilization

a) Urban Health Model introduced for Kabul. The urban BPHS working group at the
ministry level developed an Urban Health Model based on existing rural BPHS for Kabul
however; the effectiveness of the Urban Health Model had varying perspectives. In the urban
health module 8 BHCs, 28 CHCs, 4 CHC+ and 4 district hospitals was proposed to be
included.

b) Urban BPHS consolidated/expanded and its access increased. The urban BPHS was,
for the most part, consolidated and expanded through the implementation of structural
reforms of HFs. Eleven out of 12 proposed structural reforms for HFs were completed as of
September 2014, per data provided by the MOH. However, access to the urban BPHS was
only partially increased, as seen by the achievement of targets in only two out of seven
service utilization performance indicators (outpatient visits increased by 35% and number of
TB+ cases successfully treated increased by 48%). The other five service utilization
indicators (number of deliveries, number of pregnant women receiving at least one ANC,
number of new users of contraceptives, number of children <1 receiving DPT3, and number
of children <5 receiving nutrition screening) did not fully achieve their intended targets of a
10% increase from the baseline, though two indicators, number of deliveries and number of
new contraceptive users, did show partial increase towards the target (3% and 6%,
respectively).

c) Quality of Urban BPHS improved to the extent that patient satisfaction and service
utilization is increased. Patient satisfaction improved by 18%, over-achieving its targets,
though as previously mentioned, service utilization only partially increased. Furthermore,
the drugs and equipment availability indices, two critical indicators which define the capacity
of HFs to deliver the urban BPHS, did not meet their targets (decreased by 3% and 8%,
respectively) due to challenges in procurement of essential drugs, supplies and equipment.




                                              59
                                     Figure 2: Project Outcome




                                                                     Suggestion for 
                      Development of       Implementation of      Expanding the UHM 
                    Urban Health Model           UHM                for Other Urban 
                                                                  Area in Afghanistan




      Service Utilization

      Urban health facilities were serving to out -patients ranging from approximately 120 in CHC
      without delivery and BHC to 150-300 patients in CHC with delivery and DH per day. Their
      role in OPD and IPD service was likely to contribute in the decrease of maternal and child
      mortality and controlling communicable diseases.
      The performance of the health facilities was measured through the output indicator of the
      HMIS. The result of indicates relatively improvement in service utilization.


SN           Indicator        Baseline      Annual    HMIS annual  HMIS annual     HMIS 9 
                                            Targets   achievement  achievement    Months 
                                                          1391         1392     achievement 
                                                                                    1393  
 1     Outpatient visit       768,000         844,800   850670       1021130      798914 
 2     Number of               4,000             4,400          7080          8554           4581 
       deliveries  
 3     Number of               52,000          57,200       53,449            51479         31722 
       pregnant woman 
       receiving at least 
       one ANC visit 
 4     Number of current       53,000          58,300       50149             62142         46607 
       user of 
       contraceptive  
 5     Number of children      83,000          91,300       64128             66562         41847 
       < 1 received DPT3  
 6     Number of children     116,000         127,600       228763           144913         138469 
       aged under 5 
       received nutrition 
       screening  

                                                  60
Project cost:

The total project cost was originally US$ 3.5 million which was reduced to $2.5 million due to slow
implementation in the first two years. The project was financed by JSDF through the World Bank
(WB). This budget covered only operational budget (35%) of KPPHD while the other parts of the
expenditures were covered through the government core budget (ordinary budget) at estimated cost
of 65% of overall KPPHD budget.
                            Proportion of  Budget Spent in  1391


                                           10% 0%
                     46%                                Training
                                                        Mecicine
                                                 33%    consultancy services
                                                        Operation
                                                        Transportation
                                       11%




    Proportion of Budget spent in 1392                         Proportion of Budget spent in 1393




                                Training                                                  Training


                                Mecicine                                                  Mecicine
           1% 4%     1%                                                        3%
                          25%
         33%                    Medical                                  27%              Medical
                                Equipment
                                                                                    40%   Equipment
               36%              consultancy                 3%                            consultancy
                                services                                                  services
                                                              10%
                                Operation                                  17%            Operation


                                Transportation                                            Transportation




                                                  61
Challenges /constraints

           Bureaucracy in procedure for procurement & supply resulted in delaying in supply
            and procurement.
           Temporary shifting of HFs staff from one to another health facility due to pressure
            from parliamentary members, governmental authorities and other influential
            individual or association .
           Shortage of standard building for HFs , out of 44 urban health facilities merely 15
            Kabul urban health facilities have permanent building however , these health
            facilities building were not standard for quality health services delivery and the rest
            are rental building which build for housing purposes .
           Undefined catchment areas and difficulties in setting of baseline and target for the
            project
           Low salary( paying according to grading system )
           Shortage of specialist in health facilities( District hospital and CHC with delivery)
           Bulging of population due to IDP ( internal displaced people)
           CBHC program was not properly implemented
           Few number of advanced management training for KPPHO which caused low
            performances.
           Inadequate technical advance training conducted for CHC with delivery and DH
            technical staff

Recommendation

           To mitigate the miss opportunity of reproductive health clients some changes in
            health facility staff modality such as adding another midwife in CHC without
            delivery will be proposed
           To strengthen the reproductive health program in the health facilities there is need
            for hiring two expert midwives as supervisors.
           In order to avoid delay in the supply of medicine, equipment and other medical and
            non-medical items the project must take necessary steps such as well planning, early
            procurement start up, and hire procurement expert consultant.
           To prevent staff shifting from one health facility to another the staff address and
            their job locations should be reviewed and accordingly re adjustment must be doing.
            The new recruited staff should be deployed to the nearest facility.
           Proposing some incentive, training and other type of motivation to the specialist to
            deploy and retain them in urban health facilities.
           Strengthening CBHC management layer of Kabul public health directorate and
            restructuring the CBHC management level of the project (hiring CBHC
            coordinator and expert CBHC trainers at the project level)
           Recommending advanced management training for KPPHO
           Proposing adequate technical advance training for CHC with delivery and DH
            technical staff in the next phase of the project




                                            62
                               Table 3: project input, process, and output

Input                                                              Process                     Out put 

 7 Technical consultants  for technical Assistance                   Providing technical     Achievem
 Provision of medicine                                                assistance to KPPHD     ent in 
 Provision of medical equipment’s (3 machine of digital x‐           Conducting of           different 
  ray , ECG                                                            training for KPPHD      indicators 
 Machines , ultrasound machines, other OT equipment’s ,               and HFs’ staff          (Referred 
  and medical                                                         Conducting              to table 1) 
 Equipment for hospital and clinics                                   Supervision and 
 Provision of lab. Regents  and other medical consumable              monitoring visits of 
 Purchasing of three well equipped ambulance                          HFs 
 24 rental vehicle for  transportation of staff and                  Conduction meetings 
  supervisors                                                          (PHCC , Weekly base 
 Furniture for KPPD and health facilities                             KPPHD PHHO 
 Renovation of KPPD and Health facilities include of two              Meeting, SM 
  depth wells                                                          coordination 
 Provision of incinerators , sign board for Health facilities         meeting  
  and generators 
 Provision of IT equipment and other non‐medical 
  equipment 


   Lesson learnt

   There was ambiguous management structure in urban health proposal, which led to
   coordination difficulties between SM and KPPHD. There was a lack of clear roles and
   responsibilities and hence, unclear ownership/accountability over the project, serving as the
   root cause of other implementation challenges. While political support and leadership of the
   project improved over time, it was lacking in its initial stages and capacity building for
   project implementation within KPPHD was inadequate. Furthermore, there were significant
   delays in procurement of essential medicines, supplies and equipment for the urban HFs.
   There were also challenges in implementing some of the intended renovations/reforms of the
   HFs, especially due to the fact that the majority of the HFs is located in rental properties.
   Project implementation and service delivery was also challenged by high turnover and
   shifting of HF staff among urban HFs. Reporting of performance by HFs in the initial years
   of the project also posed challenges. The Community-Based Healthcare (CBHC) component
   was not implemented successfully as only 120 Community Health Workers (CHWs) were
   trained by 2014 against a target of 660. Finally, some CHCs with delivery could not meet
   their target especially in delivery services.


                                                63
Annex 8. Urban Kabul Pilot Indicators



                         Table: Urban Kabul Pilot Indicators
                                 Baseline     Target       End               % Change
                               (2010/2011)   (+10%)         line           (Baseline/End
 Indicator                                                (2013)               line)
 Patient Satisfaction*             74.7         82.2        87.9               +18%
 Number of active CHWs               0          660          80                   -
 Drugs availability index
 (availability of essential
 drugs)*                           95.0        100.0        92.0                -3%
 Equipment Functionality
 index*                            69.6         76.6        64.3                -8%
                                                         829,51
 Outpatient visits**             614,118     675,530          7                +35%
 Number of deliveries**           5,081        5,589       5,244               +3%
 Number of           pregnant
 women receiving at least 1
 ANC visit**                      40,929      45,022     35,916                 -12%
 Number of new users of
 contraceptives**                 23,408      25,749     24,904                 +6%
 Number of children <1 who
 received DPT3**                  54,803      60,283     49,390                 -10%
 Number of children <5 who
 received            nutrition                           115,37
 screenings**                    119,015     130,917          0                 -3%
 Number of TB+ cases
 successfully treated**            215          237         319                +48%
 * Baseline Year = 2010 from BSC Reports 2009/2010
 ** Baseline Year = 2011 from HMIS Data for 32 HFs only



Only three indicators met their targets: (i) patient satisfaction: probably due to the investment
in knowledge and training of health workforce, building staff capacity at the facility level
and improvement in infrastructure; (ii) outpatient utilization levels suggesting an overall
increase of utilization of services; and (iii) number of TB cases successfully treated, owing
to the increasing numbers of facilities offering the treatment and the use of the DOTS
technique. However, the provider knowledge score, not being available for Urban Kabul,
has increased in the province as a whole by 8%. This may be attributed to the training offered
under this operation.

The other eight indicators never met their intended targets, though two of those (number of
deliveries and number of new contraceptive users) have shown commendable progress. It is


                                                64
the view of this ICR that the delays of procurement and the lack of coordinating between
KPPHD and SM were largely to blame.

Two project indicators have shown a decrease by 2013/2014 (number of pregnant women
receiving at least one ANC visit and number of children <1 y who received DPT3). The
baseline for the ANCs was largely speculated due to the lack of a solid ANC registration
system prior to the project. Thus, through the improvements witnessed in the HMIS over the
project duration, the real rates were shown. As for the DPT3 vaccinations, there were no
outreach immunization campaigns in urban Kabul.




                                           65
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      66
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

1. Draft Assessment Report, Kabul Urban Basic Package of Health Services Project,
    December 2014.
2. Restructuring Papers 1, 2 & 3, Support to Basic Package of Health Services (PBHS)
    Project, JSDF Grant. TF095919.
3. Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR) 1 to 8, Supports to Basic Package of
    Health Services (PBHS) Project, JSDF Grant. TF095919.
4. Urban Health Situation Analysis, Kabul 2010.
5. Project Proposal, MOPH Direct Delivery of Urban health Model in Kabul, March 2011.
6. Japan Social Development Fund- Grant Proposal, FY 09, Round 27.
7. Project Paper, Strengthening Health Activities for the Rural Poor Project (SHARP)
8. Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), Strengthening Health Activities
    for the Rural Poor (SHARP), February 2014.
9. Grant Agreement, WB & JSDF, Grant for Support to Basic Package of Health Services
    (BPHS), March 2009.
10. Afghanistan BPHS Balanced Scorecard National Report, 2012-2013.
11. Emergency Project Document, System Enhancement for Health Action in Transition
    Project (SEHAT), Feb 2013.
12. Final Government ICR, Support to Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) Project,
    JSDF Grant. TF095919.
13. Health & Nutrition Sector Strategy, Afghanistan, 2008-2013.




                                          67
MAP




      68
