The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 5904-HE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
July 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorizaion.



Carrerc Unit - Peso Oftx$)
On June 6, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 - Mex$627.00; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 - Mex$588.00
lincal Year
January 1 - December 31
Wihts and Ne1aures
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 square meters (m2) - 2.47 acres (8)
1 kilometer (km)  -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)     0.39 square miles  -  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)     2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms - 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1)      0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                Average Cost of Funds (see CPP for Spanish)
BANCOMER           Banco Comercial, S.A.
BANCOMEXI          Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
BANPAIS            Banco Nacional del Pais
BdM                Banco de Mexico [Central Bank]
CEPROFI            Certificado de Promocion Fiscal
CETES              Certificado de Tesoreria
CPP                Costo Promedio Porcentual (see ACF for English)
EFF                Extended Fund Facility
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FICORCA            Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiarios
FIRA               Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relacion con la Agricultura
FOGAIN             Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOEI              Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FRR                Financial Rate of Return
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GIRA               General Interest Rate Agreement
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IMF                International Monetary Fund
NAFINSA            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PEMEX              Petroleos Mexicanos
PRONAFICE          Progruna Nacional de Fomento Industrial y Comercio Exterior
PVP                Sistema de Pagos al Valor Presente
QRs                Quantitative Restrictions



FOR OFF0AL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY FROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................    iv
II. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS ...................    1
The Industrial Sector ............ ..1............... 
Background    ...............................             1
Development Constraints ...............                   2
Government Policies .....         .....................    2
The Financial Sector ......          ........................    3
Background    ...............................             3
Development Constraints .....         .................    3
Government Policies .................                     5
Bank Assistance ...................................             6
III. THE PROJECT ............................................    7
Project Objectives ...................                          7
Project Description and Design ...............                  7
Executing Agency and Experience with Past Lending..    8
Loan Amount and Terms .............................    9
Financing Plan ........         ............................    9
Relending Terms and Conditions ........ ............   10
Project Implementation  .......... ................   11
Procurement and Disbursement .......... ............   12
Accounting and Auditing ...........................   12
Benefits and Risks ...............................    13
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................    13
This report was prepared by Messrs. Eberhard von Loehneysen, Ovaise Saadat, Ms.
Aida Velarde and Ms. Judith Press, LCPI2, and Mr. Jonathan Parker, LCPII,
following two idssions to Mexico in April and June 1985.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriutionz



-ii-
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Summary of the Sistems de Pagos al Valor Presente (PVP)
ANNEX 2. Nominal and Real Interest Rates
ANNEX 3. Outline for a Technical Assistance Program
ANNEX 4. Operations of the Fondo Nacional de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
ANNEX 5. Experience with Past Lending
ANNEX 6. Guidelines for the Financing of Equity and Quasi-Equity
Investments by Co mercial Banks
ANNEX 7. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 8. Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
ANNEX 9. Supporting Tables
Industrial Sector
T-1   Gross Domestic Product by Sector of Origin 1975-84
T-2   Quarterly Index of Industrial Production 1979-84
T-3   Quarterly Index of Manufacturing Production 1979-84
T-4 Structure of Value Added in the Manufacturing Sector 1970-84
T-5   Manufactured Exports by Product Group 1970, 1975, 1980-84
T-6   Import of Manufacturing Industry by Product Group 1975) 1980-84
T-7   Selected National Wage indices 1977-85
Financial Sector
T-8   Monetary Aggregates 1970-84
T-9   Total Financing of the Banking System 1982-84
T-10 Financing of the Banking System in National Currency 1982-84
T-11 Financing of the Banking System in Foreign Currency 1982-84
T-12  Credit to Public and Private Sector by Principal Economic
Activity 1979-84
T-13 Total Liabilities of the Banking System 1982-84
T-14  Consolidated Financial Operations of the Public Sector 1978-84
T-15 Financial Sources of the Federal Government Internal Debt
1977-84
T-16 Traded Volume at the Stock Exchange 1978-84
T-17 Public Offers through the Stock Exchange 1978-84
T-18 Money Market Operations of Casas de Bolsa 1984
T-19 Bond Market Operations of Casas de Bolca 1984
T-20 Operations of the Corporate Stock Market 1978-84
T-21 Capital Increases of Companies registered in the Stock Exchange
by Sector 1979-84



-iii-
FONEI: Actual and Projected Financial Performance
T-22 Income Statement
T-23 Balance Sheet
T-24 Sources and Uses of Funds
T-25 Assumptions for Financial Projections
FONEI: Portfolio Comsiwition
T-26  Total ConmmL.uents by Program Type 1979-84
T-27  Commitments under the Equipment Program by Loan Size 1981-84
T-28  Commitments under the Equipment Program by Economic Sector
1981-84
T-29  Total Commitments by Region 1980-84
T-30  Total Disbursements by Financial Intermediary 1979-84
FONEI: Subproject Performance
T-31  Summary of Projected and Actual Subproject Performance 1981-84
T-32 Financial Composition of Subprojects under the Equipment Program
1979-84
T-33  Projected and Actual Rates of Return oi a Sample of Subprojects
T-34  Projected and Actual Performance of Borrowing Companies 1981-84
T-35  Commitments under the Equipment Program by Product Destination
1979-84
T-36  Projected and Actual Export Performance of Borrowing Companies
T-37  Summary of Commitments and Disbursements under Previous FONEI
Loans 1973-84
ANNEX 10. Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
ANNEX 11. Status Summary on Current Industrial Loans to Mexico



-iv-
HmCO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
BenefiLciay :Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Amount:        US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Relending
Ter m:         NAFINSA would pass on loan funds to FONEI on the same terms as
the Bank loan. The Government would repay the principal of the
Bank loan, pay interest, and bear the foreign exchange risk.
FONEI would relend funds to intermediaries at rates not less
than the average cost of funds to the banking system (CPP) plus
one percentage point. The spread intermediaries would charge on
fixed investment subloans would vary between a minimum of one
and a maximum of four percentage points; there would be no upper
limit on the spreads for working capital subloans. Maturities
would vary between 3 and 13 ye_rs for equipment loans, 3 and 7
years for working capital subloans, and 3 and 10 years for the
rediscounting of equity investments. The grace period would not
exceed 3 years for equipment and working capital subloans, and 5
years for the financing of equity investments. FONEI would
offer, as an option, the Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor
Presente (PVP)," in order to ease the cash flow of borrowers.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would improve the quality and broaden the
scope of financial services to medium-sized and large private
industrial companies. More specifically, it would: (i) intro-
duce a repayment mechanism for long-term credit, which better
matches debt service with cash generation; (ii) promote
development of the capital market by introducing, on a pilot
basis, the financing of equity and quasi-equity investments by
commercial banks; and (iii) develop corporate finance
capabilities within FONEI to offer comprehensive financial
packages and related technical assistance.
The project would provide: (i) finance for fixed investment and
working capital, and as a pilot program for the restructuring of
over-leveraged companies, equity and quasi-equity investments,
and (ii) technical assistance to FONEI.



-v-
Project
Risks:         The loan is expected to disburse quickly, given FONEI's current
project pipeline and expected industrial financing needs.
However, commitments could slow down because of slow economic
recovery or reluctance by financial intermediaries in accepting
new financial instruments that will be introduced under the
proposed project. To minimize these uncertainties, the loan
amount is based on conservative demand estimates, and the amount
allocated to equity finance is relatively small (US$20 million).
Estimtaed Cost:                                 Local      Foreign        Total
US$ Millions
Equipment Subloans                    70.6         86.4         157.0
Working Capital Subloans              80.0         20.0         100.0
Equity Investments                    22.1         17.9          40.0
Technical Assistance                   2.0          1.0           3.0
TOTAL               174.7       125.3         300.0
Financing PlAn:
World Bank                             24.7       125.3         150.0
FONEI/Government                      104.3         0.0         104.3
Intermediaries/Beneficiaries          45.7          0.0         45.7
TOTAL               174.7       125.3         300.0
EstLuated                                   (Bank FY/US$ Millions)
87      88      88       90      91      92      93
Annual         7.0    28.0    39.5    39.0    20.5    13.0    3.0
Cumulative     7.0    35.0    74.5   113.5   134.0   147.0  150.0
Rate of
Return:      Subprojects would have to have FRRs and ERRs of at least 1OZ in
real terms.



II. TUE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
2.01   Over the past three decades, manufacturing developed into one of the
leading sectors of the Mexican economy: its share in GDP rose from 17% in 1950
to 24% in the early 1980s; manufactured exports grew even faster, now contrib-
uting about 29% to total exports; and the manufacturing sector creates about
13% of all jobs in the country. These growth trends look even more impressive
when taking into account the discovery of huge petroleum reserves, which became
the dominant source of economic growth since the mid-1970s. The composition of
manufacturing had shifted gradually over the years. During the 1960s and early
1970s, manufacturing concentrated on light industrial goods (textiles, apparel,
and wood products), which represented more than two-thirds of manufacturing
value added in 1960. Twenty years later, this share had fallen below 40X,
while the share of heavier industrial products (metal works, machinery, and
equipment) rose from 23% in 1960 to 30% in 1980.
2.02   As a result of the economic and financial crisis, however, industrial
growth came to an abrupt halt in 1982. Production dropped 11% from its 1981
level, and gross domestic investment as a proportion of GDP fell from a peak of
29% in 1981 to 16.5% in 1983. Many Mexican companies came close to bank-
ruptcy. To avoid massive defaults, the banks had to reschedule the large-scale
debt of their corporate customers. To alleviate their foreign exchange risk,
the Government set up FICORCA ("Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos de
Cambios-) in 1983, with a long-term currency and interest swap mechanism that
enabled private companies to pay their foreign debt in pesos at domestic inter-
est rates and, at the same time, to capitalize a portion of the interest pay-
ments. Government agencies such as FONEI ("Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial")
provided emergency liquidity to affected companies through special assistance
programs. Also, the Government introduced an accelerated depreciation scheme
allowing a 75% write-off against new investments in 1984 and a 50% write-off in
1985, which continued in 1986.
2.03   The industrial sector began to recover in 1984, especially during the
second half of the year. Industrial production grew by 4.8%, as opposed to a
decline of 9% in 1983; manufacturing output rose by 4.7%; and construction
activities also rose by 3.8%. Electricity and cement production were up by
5.9% and 8%, respectively. The recovery was led by a revival of capital goods
and consumer durables, which had suffered particularly severe contractions in
the preceding two years. Also, a 50% rise of the share of manufactured exports
in total exports in 1984 contributed to growing output. The increases in
production and exports reduced widespread overcapacity observed over the last
two years, and gave rise to an expansion in fixed capital investments. The
recovery continued into the first half of 1985, during which the industrial
sector grew at an annualized rate of 9%. In the second half of 1985, however,
economic growth, and with it, industrial expansion, slowed down as a result of
the Government's efforts to limit inflationary pressures and restrict public
spending. The industrial growth rate for the year as a whole was 5%.



-2-
Development Constraints
2.04   Despite the 1984/85 recovery, however, serious problems remain.  The
sudden growth in manufactured exports in 1983-84 was the result of a suppressed
domestic market and a drastic currency devaluation, and not of increased
international competitiveness or export orientation. Mexican companies have,
in general, not introduced lasting improvements in their competitiveness. In
addition, the financial situation of many companies remained precarious: high
financial costs limit profitability, and improvements in liquidity after 1983
have been only temporary. afforded by postponed interest payments under the
FICORCA mechanism.
2.05   Insufficient Export Orientation.  Through decades, the Mexican Govern-
ment has followed an import-substitution strategy in industrial policies. High
protective barriers, combined with tax breaks and subsidies, have nurtured
domestic industries, many of which are simply not competitive in the world
markets. As a result, the export base in manufacturing has remained limited.
The number of important exporters is small, and most companies view export
ventures only as a residual effort to complement slackening domestic sales.
Manufactured exports have been concentrated in chemicals and petrochemicals, as
well as transport equipment and automotive parts. Diversification is only
beginning now. As 70% of manufactured exports go to the U.S. market, there is
a potential for growth in export possibilities to other markets.
2.06   Weak Finanmial Condition of Firms.  The structural weakness of Mexico's
industrial sector is compounded by the difficult financial condition of many
enterprises. The massive devaluations sharply increased the debt burden of
companies that had accumulated a high foreign debt exposure. In 1983, for
instance, some 30% of all industrial companies had a debt/equity ratio of more
than 2:1; 10% of the companies had a ratio exceeding 5:1. Although the
financial structure of the industrial sector improved during 1984, many
companies remain financially weak. Recent increases in domestic interest rates
further elevated financial costs. Within the next two years, company liquidity
will deteriorate further, because the grace period under the Government's
FICORCA scheme, which had assumed that industrial growth would recover by 1986,
is now coming to an end.
Government Policies
2.07   Recognizing the limits of an import-substitution strategy and Mexico's
limited foreign exchange availability, PRONAFICE, the Government's industrial
development plan announced in 1984, emphasizes the need for structural changes
in industry. A first step in this direction was a trade liberalization package
in July 1985, consisting of a reduction in quantitative import restrictions and
a devaluation. Despite this change in the import protection system, the actual
level of effective protection has not been lowered. In some cases, tariffs
have been temporarily increased and official reference prices introduced in
order to compensate for the loss of quantitative restrictions. But the Govern-
ment has recently announced multi-year calendars for a tariff program
significantly reducing tariffs by 1988 to 0-30Z, for phasing out official
reference prices by end-1987, and for additional quantified reductions in
non-tariff barriers, such as quantitative restrictions. Breaking with its
economic policy of the past two decades, Mexico has also applied for membership



in the GATT. At the same time, the Government has already provided further
incentives to exporters, including an expansion of the temporary import scheme,
the simplification of rebate procedures for the value added tax on imported
inputs, the partial elimination of export permits, the reduction of export
taxes, and the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate.
2.08   The Government is aware, however, that these recent measures will have
to be complemented with improvements in financial services to industry and the
financial structure of companies. To be able to compete internationally,
industry will have to invest more in plant, equipment, and working capital.
But many companies with an overleveraged financial structure cannot afford to
borrow because of the high financial costs and negative cash flow created by
high nominal interest rates. Thus, in addition to a general need for term
credit, many companies require equity, especially enterprises with healthy
operations and good business prospects. But equity finance is not available in
sufficient amounts.
The Fiasncial Sector
Backg,round
2.09   Mexico's nationalized banking system comprises the Banco de Mexico (BdM,
the Central Bank), 19 multibanks (general purpose commercial banks), and a num-
ber of development banks, of which two (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., NAFINSA,
and the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, BANCOMEXT) provide financing to
the industrial sector. The commercial banks are sophisticated and efficient
institutions in traditional banking services, but they are highly concentrated:
the two largest multibanks account for almost 50% of total banking assets. Two
banks are still privately held and are operating under "grandfather" clauses.
A number of Government trust funds (fideicomisos-) provide credit, often
through the banking system, to priority activities. Non-banking financial
services are being offered through the stock exchange with 30 brokerage houses
and 4 independent brokers.
2.10   The current institutional setup is the result of drastic changes in
structure and ownership of Mexico's financial system over the last decade.
Private and mixed-ownership banks numbered 132 in 1978, declining to 76 in
1980, and to 59 in 1981. In September 1982, the commercial banks were nation-
alized, and by year-end, they numbered only 51. The remaining specialized
banks were merged into multibanks in 1983, and currently 19 multibanks are in
operation. At the same time, the number of branches of the nationalized bank-
ing system slowly increased from 3,719 in December 1980 to 4,429 in early 1986.
Development Constraints
2.11   Drastic changes in economic environment over the last years also affect-
ed financial sector development. The 1982 debt crisis had a profound impact on
the balance of supply and demand of domestic and foreign financial resources.
In addition, the increases in domestic inflation, from the 15-25% range in the
late 1970s to above 70X currently, contributed to a drastic decline in the
availability of adequate long-term finance. New lending and deposit



- 4 -
instruments that are suitable for a high-inflation environment have not been
introduced, and the long-term bond and equity markets have remained too small
to serve as an effective complement to commercial bank credit.
2.12   Declining Supply of FinaciLal Resources.  Traditionally, only a limited
portion of the resources mobilized through the banking system has been
allocated to industry without restrictions. Until 1984, some 48% of total
banking deposits was subject to reserve requirements of the Banco de Mexico and
used to finance the public sector deficit. Another 27% was directed to
official credit programs, leaving the balance -- only 25% - for free lending
to interested customers. Policy reforms, initiated at the beginning of 1985 to
limit Government access to Central Bank resources and increase the private
sector share in commercial bank credit, have effectively been reversed in the
second half of 1985 to meet the funding requirements of a sharply rising
domestic debt. This has led to further crowding out of the private sector
(para. 2.17). Moreover, the deposit base itself has eroded as a result of a
persistent disintermediation process in recent years. The ratio of MI/GDP has
steadily declined since 1979 (9Z) to 1985 (5.5%), and banking system assets
declined from 80% of GDP in 1982 to 65% in 1984 and recovered to only 70% in
1985. In addition, access to incremental foreign borrowing has all but
collapsed since 1982.
2.13   Lack of Adequate Long-Tern Financing.  As in many high inflation econo-
mies, the availability of long-term finance has declined dramatically in
Mexico. Although the maturity structure of the commercial banks' assets is not
known, a relative decline in long-term deposits shows the increasing difficul-
ties of banks in funding maturity-matched long-term loans. The shortage of
long-term financing is compounded by the negative cash flow effects of high
nominal interest rates. While many Latin American countries have introduced
indexing to adjust the outstanding principal for inflation, Mexico has opted,
until now, to compensate for inflation through high nominal interest rates.
High nominal interest rates, however, effectively shorten the maturity of a
long-term loan, because the effects of the declining real value of principal
repayments are more than offset by high interest payments. The resulting
repayment stream, if calculated in real terms, implies that most of the loan is
being repaid within two to three years-imposing a debt service burden which
exceeds the cash flow generated by most fixed asset investments. To help over-
come these difficulties FONEI proposed, and the Government agreed, to introduce
a new repayment mechanism for borrowing from commercial banks--Sistema de
Pagos Variables al Valor Presente- (PVP), the use of which the proposed loan
would encourage (para. 3.14).
2.14   Changing Structure of Real Interest Rates.  Real interest rates have
shown wide fluctuations over the last several years. During 1979 and 1980, the
effective cost of the average term deposit to the commercial banking system,
even if compounded monthly, was negative in real terms: after dropping to
about -5% in 1980, it recovered to 1% in 1981, before pluumeting again to a low
of -22% in 1982. Since 1983, however, the average cost of funds (compounded
monthly) to the banking system (ACF) has become positive and reached an annual
average of 52 in 1984 and 6% in 1985. Consequently, interest rates which are
set at or above the ACF have also become positive, averaging about 14% per year
in 1984 and increasing further in 1985. This encouraged financial rather than
productive investments, which will be necessary as industries try to adapt to a



-5-
more open trade regime. To maintain a reasonable level of resource
mobilization through the banking system, Mexico is expected to continue to
allow term deposit rates to be positive in real terms. This should ensure that
lending rates for large- and medium-sized industries are high enough to promote
sound investment decisions. Continued movement towards a more realistic
exchange rate and action to curb the fiscal deficit is central to achieving a
sustainable, but not excessive, level of interest rates.
2.15   Small Size of the Bond and Equity Markets.  Neither the money nor the
long-term bond markets have yet developed into effective complements to commer-
cial banking credit. Over 90% of the money market is accounted for by CETES
('Certificados de Tesoreria'), which were introduced in 1978. Commercial paper
and bankers' acceptances accounted for the remaining 10% of the money market.
Gross emissions in the bond market totalled a mere Mex$35 billion in 1984
(about US$210 million), with PEMEX's -Petrobonos- accounting for almost 60! of
the total.
2.16   Mexico's equity market is still in the early stages of development.  It
is limited to only a few enterprises, and has remained small. Only about 160
companies are currently listed on the stock exchange, representing a decline
from previous years; many registered companies were not actively traded. The
commercial banks, originally holders of sizable equity portfolios, had to sell
off their investments after the 1982 nationalization. The market for private
placements is limited to a few well-known names, but inaccessible to most of
the medium-sized companies. And, venture capital funds that could fill the
institutional gap do not yet exist. The aversion of many Mexican
industrialists to -go public' appears to be one of the main reasons for the
infancy of the equity market, because it involves the partial surrender of
company control, public scrutiny of financial and operational performance, and
increased exposure to tax auditing. Also, potential investors are reluctant to
associate themselves with companies that are not registered at the stock
exchange. To initiate action for building up the equity market in Mexico, the
proposed project has been designed to include a pilot equity component that
would provide finance to over-leveraged companies, and studies of the long-term
financing needs of industrial enterprises and the factors affecting the supply
of equity (paras. 3.05-3.06).
Government Policies
2.17   In a legislative reform of the financial sector in 1985, the Government
took initial steps to fill some of the institutional gaps and clarify the role
of existing financial institutions. In particular, the reform restricted Banco
de Mexico to monetary regulation; it limited Government access to credit thus
forcing the Government increasingly to borrow in the financial market through
CETES; it aimed at funding the development banks through bonds and long-term
borrowing from the commercial banks; and it confirmed the role of commercial
banks as competitive, profit-oriented institutions. However, the Government's
stabilization efforts during the second half of 1985 effectively overrode some
of these reform objectives. To limit credit expansion and force repatriation
of Mexican capital abroad, the Government froze private sector credit at its
nominal July 1985 level, thus diminishing private sector credit in real terms
and raising marginal reserve requirements to 100X. Changes in the auctioning
process of CETES, and discretionary ceilings set on their yield, have reduced



their market acceptance and further increased direct Banco de Mexico credit to
the Government. The Government is aware that these measures are not
sustainable in the long run and is expected to address these issues in the
context of its 1986-87 stabilization and external finance plan.
2.18   One of the key objectives of Mexico's financial sector development is
the strengthening of its risk capital markets, thereby improving the financial
structure and growth potential of the industrial sector. The Government has
expressed its commitment to this objective in the National Program for
Development Financing (PRONAFIDE), launched in 1984. PRONAFIDE, among others,
emphasizes the need to form risk capital funds and to foster the participation
of institutional investors in the primary and secondary equity markets,
assigning a leading role to the private sector. To provide special incentives
for the development of the securities markets, capital gains on securities
traded on these markets are tax exempt. While the nationalized commercial
banks are now excluded from the stock brokerage and insurance business, they
would have, through temporary and limited equity investments in industry, an
important promotional and catalytical function in this process, drawing on
their long experience with equity investments as well as their long-standing
connections with private industry. Long-term financing, provided on favorable
terms under the proposed project, would encourage the commercial banks to
build up their equity portfolio within the limits established by the new
legislation (para. 3.15). The new financial legislation has also established a
legal framework for the operation of venture capital companies, but some of its
provisions are considered as overly restrictive and the development of this
type of institutional investor is likely to remain limited. Notwithstanding
the new incentives, which are expected to have a significant favorable impact
on the supply of equity financing, the equity market may fail to attract
substantial financial resources as long as it has to compete with a large
supply of Government securities, generally perceived as lower-risk investments
and currently yielding high real interest rates. A planned gradual reduction
in the fiscal deficit would, therefore, make a very important contribution to
equity market development.
Bank Assistance
2.19   The Bank has assisted Mexico's industrial sector with a number of opera-
tions. Four of these (Lns. 824-, 1205-, 1560-, and 1712-ME) provided term
financing through FONEI. The first three loans are fully disbursed, and the
fourth is expected to be disbursed shortly (para. 3.08). Subsequently, the
Bank expanded the range of its industrial credit operations with projects
addressing the problems of specific industrial target groups, such as the
small- and medium-sized industry (Lns. 1552-, 1881-, and 2325-ME), capital
goods producers (Ln. 2142-ME), and efforts to reduce environmenta'l
contamination (Ln. 2154-ME). This strategy recognizes that sectoral policy
issues and institutional problems are best addressed through subsectoral
assistance programs. While the first three loans are meeting their objectives,
demand for capital goods has suffered because of the economic crisis, and
inadequate enforcement of regulations has resulted in low utilization of credit
for pollution control investments.
2.20   Given tne current needs of the industrial sector, export development has
become a top priority in the Bank's lending program since 1983. A first Export



Development Project (Ln. 2331-ME) assisted the Government in improving export
incentives, reducing the anti-export bias of policies, and introducing a tempo-
rary import scheme. The loan is now almost fully committed and expected to be
disbursed by end-1986.
2.21   These operations have focussed on delivery of credit and industrial sec-
tor issues.  The Bank's assistance to the financial sector has largely been
concentrated on improvements of individual financial institutions. A broader
approach was initiated through a dialogue with the Government on interest rate
policies, which led to a General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), which commits
the Government to phasing out gradually interest subsidies. Since 1984, all
Bank lending to Mexico involving financial intermediation has been subject to
GIRA's requirements. The proposed project would put additional emphasis on
financial sector development, help reestablish an adequate supply of long-term
funds, and upgrade the corporate banking capabilities of participating finan-
cial institutions. Thus, the project is also expected to set the stage for a
future financial restructuring operation.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01   In December 1984, the Government, together with FONEI, showed interest
in Bank support to the industrial recovery process. A credit project was iden-
tified jointly with FONEI in early 1985. A Bank pre-appraisal mission visited
Mexico in April 1985, followed by an appraisal mission in June 1985. Negotia-
tions were held in January 1986; the Mexican delegation was headed by Lie.
Luis Nava Hernandez, NAFINSA Representative in Washington, D.C., and included
Lic. Hector Flores Santana, Manager of IBRD Banking Operations in NAFINSA, Lic.
Jesus Villasenor Gonzalez, Director General of FONEI, and Lic. Antonio Cervera
Sandoval of the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP).
Project Objectives
3.02   The proposed project is aimed at improving the quality and broadening
the scope of financial services to medium and large industrial companies, which
represent the bulk of FONEI's clientele. Given the over leveraged financial
structure of many companies, the availability of comprehensive financial
packages for their long-term needs and of financing instruments that ease their
cash flow in high inflation will be as critical as -ontinued access to
traditional project/equipment financing. In some measure, Mexico's industrial
recovery and return to sustainable growth also depend on such new financing
arrangements. Therefore, the project's objectives would be to:
-   Adapt lending terms to a high-inflation environment through the
introduction of a new repayment mechanism;
-   Promote development of the capital market by introducing, on a pilot
basis, the use of additional financial instruments, such as equity
and quasi-equity, by the commercial banking system; and
-   Develop corporate finance capabilities within FONEI to offer
comprehensive financial packages and provide financial restructuring
assistance to over leveraged companies.



-8-
Project Description and Design
3.03   To achieve the above objectives, the project would include financial as
well as technical assistance components. It would provide credit for equipment
and working capital requirements, finance for equity and quasi-equity invest-
ments of industrial enterprises, and a technical assistance program.
3.04   Credit for Equipmut and Working Capital.  This would be the project's
largest component, accounting for about 86% of the loan. It would provide
long-term financing to industrial enterprises, covering plant improvements or
construction and acquisition of equipment-for which FONEI's clientele has had
the greatest demand in the past, and providing for the long-term working capi-
tal requirements of eligible companies. The inclusion of working capital
financing not associated with plant and equipment investments would, under
currently prevailing circumstances, stimulate output by improved capacity
utilization in industry.
3.05   Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments.  A pilot component representing
some 13X of the loan amount would provide finance for the purchase of equity
and quasi-equity instruments by intermediating commercial banks. Such instru-
ments would include, inter alia, common or preferred stock, convertible securi-
ties, or subordinated debt, which could be used either alone or packaged in
combination with debt. Through this pilot component, FONEI would be able to
offer, for the first time, comprehensive financial packages designed to meet
the long-term needs of companies that are operationally healthy but suffer from
a weak financial structure and prevailing high financial costs. This project
component, together with the technical assistance program outlined below, would
enable FONEI and the commercial banks to build up institutional capabilities in
comprehensive corporate analysis and financial restructuring. Favorable repay-
ment conditions of equity loans to be financed from the loan would encourage
temporary equity investments and promote a se-ndary equity market through
incentives of the law regulating the sale of stocks and securities. Given the
recently introduced tax break on capital gains from trading on the equity
market, commercial banks are expected to encourage enterprises in which they
invest to get listed on the local stock exchange.
3.06   Technical Assistance.  The project's technical assistance component
would be its smallest, accounting for 1% of the loan. It would complement the
provision of finance through: {i) improvements in FONEI's technical capabili-
ties by designing and implementing a promotion campaign and a staff training
and development program, and by upgrading FONEI's internal information and con-
trol systems; (ii) financial market studies, assessing the financial situation
and long-term financing needs of industrial enterprises, the supply of equity
and quasi-equity to the industrial sector, and the use of direct borrowing
instruments (such as bonds) by industrial companies; and (iii) specific assist-
ance in the design of restructuring packages for final borrowers. Consultant
services and computer equipment, including the development of software, would
be financed by the proposed loan.
Executing Agency and Erperlence With Past Lending
3.07   FONEI would be the project executing agency.  Founded in 1971 as a trust
fund of the Banco de Mexico, FONEI has become an important source of industrial
term lending in Mexico, highly regarded by both commercial banks and the pri-



- 9 -
vate sector. Today, FONEI is administering a wide variety of industrial
financing programs, and it has become an important source of technical assis-
tance, offering training programs for project analysis and supervision. FONEI
has developed guidelines for the design, evaluation, and supervision of proj-
ects for its own use, as well as for the participating financial intermediaries
and borrower companies. Over the years, FONEI has maintained a sound financial
structure and satisfactory operating results: it showed a 28% return on equity
in real terms in 1984, despite an increase of equity's share in its total
assets from 4% in 1979 to 45% in 1984; its total assets grew at 6% per annum
through 1983, but then began to decline in real terms due to high domestic
inflation; FONEI's operation is adequately supervised by a qualified and expe-
rienced staff, as shown, for instance, by a low arrearage affecting only 2.7%
of its current portfolio--a commendable achievement under current financial and
economic conditions in Mexico.
3.08   The Bank has made four loans to FONEI.  In addition, FONEI is partici-
pating as one of the executing agencies in Bank-supported projects for capital
goods development, export promotion, and pollution control. The first two
FONEI loans (US$35 million, 1972; US$50 million, 1976) helped to consolidate
its institution and establish basic project evaluation capabilities. Building
up project appraisal capabilities in the financial intermediaries, however,
turned out to be more difficult than expected, and two subsequent operations
(US$100 million, 1978; US$175 million, 1979) continued to assist industrial
enterprises and commercial banks in these areas.  Loan funds financed sound 1
subprojects, according to a project performance audit report (PPAR), and had a
substantial foreign exchange and employment impact.
Loan Amount and Terms
3.09   A US$150 million loan is proposed, with a maturity of 15 years, includ-
ing 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. As in
previous operations with FONEI, NAFINSA would be the Borrower, as an agent of
the Mexican Government; the Government would guarantee the Bank loan. Under
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, NAFINSA would pass on the
proceeds of the loan to FONEI, and formal execution of such arrangements would
be a special condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness. The Government
would repay the principal of the Bank loan and pay interest charges, as a means
of building up FONEI's equity, and would also be responsible for the associated
foreign exchange risk. The recoveries of the loan and the Government's
counterpart resources would be accumulated in FONEI to strengthen its financial
base, and FONEI would use these resources for purposes similar to those of the
proposed project.
Financing Plan
3.10   The project's cost is estimated at a total of US$300 million equiva-
lent. The proposed US$150 million loan would finance 50% of the costs of eli-
gible equipment and working capital subprojects, which would be committed over
1/     See Report No. 2594 of June 29, 1979.



- 10 -
1986-1990. As the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$125.3 million,
representing 42% of total costs, the proposed US$150 million loan would also
finance US$24.7 million in local costs. Financing of local costs is justified
in view of Mexico's continued difficulty in stabilizing the public sector's
fiscal performance. Given the Government's commitment to deep cuts in the 1986
budget, the Bank's increased cost sharing would help keep priority investments
on schedule, which is a precondition for sustained growth. The remaining half
of project costs would be covered by FONEI, which would, depending on the
individual subproject, finance up to 90 of subloans made by financial interme-
diaries, as well as from funds provided by the financial intermediaries and
subborrowers.
Relending Terms and Conditions
3.11   The project would finance technically, financially, and economically
sound investment subprojects of industrial enterprises. Subprojects would have
to yield financial and economic rates of return of not less than 10% in real
terms. Interest rates charged to final beneficiaries would conform to the
requirements of GIRA. Equity investments would be expected to yield an after
tax return on equity of at least 12% in real terms. FONEI's financing of sub-
projects or equity investments by commercial banks would not exceed US$10 mil-
lion equivalent, when added to any other subloan or equity investment to the
same enterprise.
3.12   On-lending Rate of FONEI to Intermediaries.  FONEI would on-lend project
funds to financial intermediaries at an interest rate of not less than the
average cost of funds to the banking system (ACF), plus one percentage point.
This would assure FONEI that it can cover its own financial costs, including
interests on its borrowing from the Banco de Mexico, as well as its administra-
tive costs in support of the proposed project. Assuming a rational foreign
exchange policy over the medium term, this on-lending rate also includes an
adequate allowance for the foreign exchange risk to be assumed by the
Government. Given the relative openness of Mexico's financial markets and a
generally positive ACF since 1983, an interest rate based on this index should,
in the long run, be equivalent in real terms to rates prevailing in
international financial markets. The proposed on-lending rate is also in line
with the marginal financial costs of commercial banks, which are estimated to
be above the ACF.
3.13   On-lending Rate of Intermediaries to Subborrovers.  The financial inter-
mediaries would add to FONEI's on-lending rate an additional spread of at least
one percentage point so that the minimum rate to the final subborrower would be
not less than the ACF plus 2 percentage points, as provided for in GIRA. The
maximum spread that intermediaries could charge on equipment subloans would be
4 percentage points. No maximum would be established for working capital sub-
loans. Variable spreads would be introduced by FONEI for the first time,
allowing the financial intermediaries flexibility in assessing risks and dif-
ferences in creditworthiness, or covering administrative costs associated with
individual clients. More importantly, this mechanism is expected to increase
competition among the intermediaries who would bear the full credit risk of
each subloan made. Linking rates to the ACF is expected to ensure that they
continue to be positive in real terms and that they be broadly in line with
those charged on other commercial bank lending.



- 11 -
3.14 Repay-ent Mechanism, Haturitles, and Grace Periods. To diminish the
cash flow implications of high nominal interest rates, subborrowers, with the
agreement of their commercial banks, would have the option of choosing the
*traditional- repayment schedule or one based on the PVP scheme.  By capital-
izing interest payments, this scheme greatly reduces the cash drain on borrow-
ers during the early part of the maturities. Consequently, it is likely to
induce borrowers to undertake investment projects in the prevailing unfavorable
climate of high nominal interest rates. The maturity of investment and working
capital subloans would vary from 3 to 13 years and 3 to 7 years, respectively.
Equity and quasi-equity investments would have maturities ranging between 5 and
10 years. The maximum grace period would be 3 years for equipment and working
capital subloans and 5 years for equity and quasi-equity investments. No grace
period wouid be granted under PVP subloans, since the initial payments under a
PVP subloan would still be lower than the interest payments during the grace
period of a 'traditional' subloan.
3.15   Special Conditions for the Equity Component.  To be eligible for financ-
ing, equity and quasi-equity investments would have to be used for purposes
similar to term credit, including plant improvement or construction, acquisi-
tion of equipment, and permanent working capital requirements. Project funds,
however, could not be used for the refinancing of existing debt. Equity in-
vestments by commercial banks to be financed with loan funds would be restrict-
ed to a maximum of 25X of the share capital of any company, and investments
exceeding 10% of a company's capital would not be held for more than five
years, after which the investing commercial bank would have to reduce its equi-
ty holding to below 10Z of the company's total equity. This scheduled reduc-
tion would be reflected in the respective subproject proposals and subloan/
investment agreements. The above restrictions not only are in line with cur-
rent legislation and would help keep the risks within reasonable limits, but
they would also promote a secondary equity market. The risk of equity invest-
ments would be borne by the financial intermediary, as FONEI would merely
finance the equity holdings according to agreed guidelines, which are reflected
in FONEI's revised Operating Regulations.
Project Implementation
3.16   FONEI, as the executing agency, would on-lend project funds to partici-
pating commercial banks to finance their clients' long-term plant, equipment,
and working capital needs, or make equity or quasi-equity investments. Commer-
cial banks would be responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision.
FONEI would review the documentation submitted by the commercial bank for sub-
project approval. It would take some five-and-one-half years to implement the
project, and the commitment period for subprojects would end on December 31,
1990.
3.17   Except for subloans made to commercial banks under the equity component,
the Bank would not carry out a prior review of subprojects, but would review
samples of subprojects costing in excess of US$2 million. Based on these
reviews, Bank supervision missions would discuss with FONEI changes in the
evaluation procedures, if so required. In case a subloan would not have met
agreed eligibility criteria, the Bank would not finance the subproject, and
FONEI, if it had withdrawn funds from the project's Special Accournt for the
purpose, would be obliged to reimburse the Special Account in tne same amount.



- 12 -
The proposed procedure is justified because FONEI has now become sufficiently
experienced in subproject evaluation and supervision (para. 3.07) and has a
good track record under previous Bank loans. Under the previous FONEI loan
(Ln. 1712-ME), the Bank approved every single subproject proposal, which
confirms PONEI's appraisal capabilities. However, since FONEI's equity
financing program is new, the Bank would have prior review of the first three
equity investments, as well as all other equity investments which would exceed
10Z of the company's total capital or US$2 million, whichever is lower.
:-ONEI's Operating Regulations, originally developed with Bank assistance, have
now been amended to help carry out the proposed project and are satisfactory to
the Bank.
Procurement and Disbarsement
3.18   Procurement procedures for goods and services financed with loan funds
would comply with those customary for industrial development finance opera-
tions. FONEI has had extensive experience with these Bank requirements, and it
would, during project implementation, ensure the competitiveness of items
procured in terms of price, quality, and their suitability for the purposes
intended. Consultants financed from the loan would have qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank, and related
equipment would be purchased through local procurement procedures which have
been reviewed and found satisfactory.
3.19   To simplify management of the loan account, the Bank would disburse
against 100% of FONEI's loans to financial intermediaries up to 50% of total
investment costs of borrowers. The Bank would disburse to cover 50% of the
cost of consultant services, staff training, and related computer equipment. A
Special Account with an initial deposit of US$15 million would be established
at NAFINSA to finance the Bank's share of FONEI's operations, thus helping
prompt project execution. Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, and NAFINSA would maintain all sup-
porting documentation and make it available for review upon the Bank's
request. NAFINSA would submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the transac-
tions of the Special Account. Upon FONEI's request, retroactive financing for
up to US$15 million, accounting for 10% of the loan amount, is recommended for
expenditures incurred after September 30, 1985. Thin will help bridge FONEI's
financing gap between the date when funds under the previous Bank loan
(1712-ME) were fully committed and when the proposed loan is expected to be
signed. The Government is unable to cover this gap fully because of its fiscal
constraints.
Accounting and Auditing
3.20   The accounts of NAFINSA and FONEI, including those kept for the purpose
of the project, the Special Account, and statements of expenditures, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
reports, including an opinion regarding the supporting documentation for dis-
bursements based on statements of expenditure, would be submitted within six
months after the end of NAFINSA's and FONEI's fiscal year.



- 13 -
Benefits and RisLk
3.21   The proposed project is expected to improve the quality and breadth of
financial services available to medium and large industrial companies. Aside
from providing scarce term financing, the project would benefit Mexico's finan-
cial system by introducing a subloan repayment mechanism that is suitable in a
high inflation environment. The pilot equity component would enable FONEI to
offer comprehensive financial packages, covering the long-term financing needs
of its industrial clients. Together with the project's technical assistance
program, they would enable FONEI to establish the financial and institutional
mechanisms required for in-depth corporate financial restructuring that will
have to be addressed through a broader program in the future. By encouraging
the financing of equity by commercial banks, this component will make a modest,
but significant, contribution to the solution of overindebtedness in industry.
Because of their size and intimate knowledge of their clients' business, com-
mercial banks are the only viable source of increased equity investment in the
immediate future. A lasting solution to the financial problems of enterprises
will require the mobilization of savings from other institutions and
individuals, and the means for achieving this would be studied under the
project's technical assistance component.
3.22   FONEI has developed into a reasonably efficient and mature financial
institution. Therefore, the project presents no special risk concerning the
soundness of the subprojects financed. However, it may take longer than ex-
pected to implement the project if economic recovery is slower than expected or
if the Government would slow down its trade liberalization process, tbereby
taking off pressure from the enterprises to modernize. In addition, the extent
to which commercial banks and their clients will use the new financial instru-
ments proposed is uncertain. Although FONEI intends to strongly promote the
new PVP repayment scheme, which-at times of high nominal interest rates-is
more favorable to clients than the traditional repayment methods, they may be
reluctant to respond. The local market for equity is small and relatively
undeveloped in Mexico. That is not expected to change fundamentally during
project implementation, in part because owners of privately held companies may
remain reluctant to allow the recently nationalized commercial banks to hold
shares in their companies, if only for a limited period of time. To deal with
these uncertainties, the loan size has been set for conservative demand
projections, and the US$20 million allocated for equity and quasi-equity
instruments is relatively small. If this allocation proves too optimistic, the
funds would be reallocated for traditional credit operations.
IV.
4.01       During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Mexican
Government, Banco de Mexico, NAFINSA and FONEI on:
(a) the project's objectives and the contents of its components
(paras. 3.02-3.06);
(b) the loan amount, as well as arrangements for channeling the
resources to FONEI, repayment of the Bank loan, accumulation of
project funds in FONEI (para. 3.09);



- 14 -
(_) the financing plan, including the size of the Bank loan and the
financing percentage required by FONEI and the financial
intermediaries (para. 3.10);
(d) onlending interest rates, spreads, maturities, grace periods and
maximum amounts for subloans (paras. 3.11-3.15);
(e) institutional arrangements for project implementation, including
subproject appraisal, supervision and disbursement procedures
(paras. 3.16 and 3.17);
(f) procurement and disbursement arrangements (paras. 3.18 and
3.19); and
(g) accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 3.20)
4.02       It would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan that NAFINSA
(in its function as the borrower) and the Government enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to transfer the proceeds of the loan to
FONEI as the executing agency of the project.
4.03       The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$150 million with a term of 15 years, including three years of
grace.



- 15 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Summary of the Sistema de Pagos al Valor Presente (PVP)
In an inflationary environmant such as that in Mexico, in which high
nominal interest rates prevail, long-term lo-_ns, if available at all, have -
in real terms - only short maturities. The attached table shows an example
which explains this phenomenon as well as two different ways to deal with it -
an indexing mechanism and the PVP scheme.
- In a regular loan (section 1 of the table), the outstanding balance
(column 2) declines with the principal payments (column 3); the interest
payments (column 4) are being based on the outstanding principal.
Deflating the total annual payments in nominal terms (column 5) with the
accumulated inflation rate results in the total payments in constant
prices of year zero (column 6). This column does not represent a net
present value; rather, it contains an undiscounted cash flow in real
termo. In the example, the borrower would, in real terms, have to repay
some SOZ of the 10-year loan after three years. Even the introduction of
a grace period would not solve the problem; the real maturity of the
loan remains short.
-An  indweng mechanim   (section 2 of the table) solves this problem
through the adjustment of the principal with an inflation index. Thus
the outstanding balance of the loan and, with it, the principal
repayments grow with inflation while the interest payments are being
based on the real (deflated) interest rate. The distribution of the
annual total payments in constant prices is, therefore, as it would be
without inflation.
- The PEP scheme represents a different solution to the cash flow
problem (section 3 of the table). Instead of adjusting the outstanding
balance with the inflation rate, it capitalizes interest payments. A
loan is being split into its individual maturities; for each of these
maturities, interest is being accumulated over time and paid only once
the respective maturity becomes due. Thus interest is not being paid on
the average outstanding balance in a given period, but is accrued and
paid for each maturity individually. As a result, payments in real terms
increase slowly and would therefore correspond better to the cash flow
of an investment project. To avoid a period without payments for the
borrower, a PVP loan does not carry any grace period.



- 16 -
MEXICO                                   Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Comparlson of Regular, Indaxed and PVP Loans
ASSUMPTIONS
Grace Period (Reg. Loan)             O Inflation Rate                  s5z
Grace Period (PUP Loan)              O Nominal Interest Rate            60S
Maturity (Years)                   1  Real Interest Rate                7S
Year Outstand.  Principal  Interest        Total       Real      Payment
Balance    Payment    Payment    Payment    Payment  Difference
(1)     (2)         (3)         (4)         CS)         (6)         (7)
6        100           S           a           S           0           0
RE6ULAR LOAN
1        l00          16          60          70          47           0
2         96          10          54          64          28           0
3         86          is          48          58          17           0
4         70          Is          42          52          Is           0
5         66          10          36          46           6           0
6         s6          10          30          40           4           O
7         40          Is          24          34           2           0
8         36          10          18          28           1           0
9         20          Is          12          22           1           0
is         10          10           5          16           a           0
INDEXED LOAN
1         SO         1S          is          25          17          30
2        203          23          13          36          16          12
3        270          34          18          52          15           2
4        354          51          24          74          15          -4
S        456          76          30         106          14          -8
6        570         114          38         152          13         -10
7        683         171          46         216          13         -11
8        769         256          51         308          12         -11
9        769         384          S1         436          11        -11
16        577         577          38         615          11         -10
PUP LOAN
1        100          16           6          16          11          36
2         96          10          16          26          11          17
3         80          16          31          41          12           5
4         70          16          56          66          13          -3
5         60          16          95         105          14          -8
6         SO          10         158         168          15         -11
7         40          10         258         268          16         -14
8         30          16         419         429          17         -16
9         20          16         677         687          18        -17
16         10          10        1690        1166          19        -19



- 17 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
mEIco
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Nominal and Real Interest Rates
1.        The real interest rates in the financial sector section of the SAR
compare the movements of the compounded CPP with the inflation rate of the
corresponding periods. The calculation is based on the following:
- The CPP is the average of the various deposit rates determined by BdM.
It does not include demand deposits and savings deposits. The CPP is
calculated and published monthly by BdK.
- The interest rate and the inflation rate have to cover the same period.
For example, to calculate real returns ex post, an Investor would
compare the interest income accruing over the life of his investment and
compare it to the price increases over the same period. The real
interest rate referred to in the financial sector section is the 90-day
deposit rate, since 90-day deposits constitute the bulk of all banking
deposits. The real interest rate level of, say, July 1984, is then
determined by 'discounting' the nominal 90-day deposit rate of that
month with price increases from July to September 1984.
- Since Mexico uses the simple (European) method to calculate sub-annual
interest rates, published deposit rates have to be 'reco pounded  to
arrive at a meaningful comparator with the respective inflation rate.
2.        The table attached to this annex contains, for purposes of
comparison, additional calculations of real interest rates to reflect some of
the interest payment and charging practices used in commercial banks.
- In view of the high inflation rates prevailing in Mezico, many banks pay
and charge interest on a monthly basis. Accordingly, the nominal
interest rate of a 90-day deposit would then increase in comparison to
quarterly interest payments because the depositor can reinvest the
monthly interest payment umtil the principal of his deposit becomes due.
- For most of the commercial loans, customers have to pay interest on a
monthly basis in advance. This payment method is advantageous for the
lender, because the advance interest payments can be reinvested over
the life of the loan.



- 18 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Nominal and Real CPP* Rates, 1978-84(Z)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1992   1983   1984   1985
NOMINAL CPP RATES (Annual Averages)
Published Rate          15.4   16.4   20.7   28.6   40.4   56.7   51.2   56.1
Quarterly Coup. Rate   15.9   17.1   21.2   30.1   44.0   67.3   64.0   65.1
Monthly Coup. Rate      16.1   17.3   21.6   45.7   45.7   71.1   67.4   68.7
Monthly Prepaid Rate   16.6   17.8   22.3   32.4   49.0   78.8   74.4   75.9
Inflation               15.2   19.2   29.2   28.7   89.5   91.7   61.3   61.4
REAL CPP RATES (Annual Averages)
Published Rate           0.1   -2.3   -6.2    0.2  -24.6  -14.7   -5.4   -2.2
Quarterly Comp. Rate    0.7   -1.7   -5.8    1.4  -22.7   -8.5    2.5    3.4
Monthly Camp. Rate      -0.7   -1.5   -5.5    1.4  -21.8   -6.3    4.6    5.6
Monthly Prepaid Rate    1.2   -1.1   -4.9    3.2  -20.1   -2.0    8.9   10.2
MONTHLY COMPOUNDED REAL CPP RATES (Annualized)
January                 n.a.   -5.4  -13.2   -7.3   -6.1  -43.4   -8.3  -10.7
February                n.a.   -6.8  -16.5   -8.4  -13.2  -43.8   -6.6  -13.8
March                   n.a.   -8.5  -16.9   -5.5  -15.9  -27.3   -7.0  -12.9
April                  -13.3    0.9   -5.7   -1.2  -16.5  -10.7   -0.3    2.8
May                      2.1    1.5   -2.3    3.1  -21.5   -5.4    5.4   12.3
June                     0.8    2.7   -1.5    6.3  -24.4   -0.5    6.0   21.4
July                    -1.2    1.5   -5.0    8.7  -22.2    5.8   10.4   21.7
August                  -0.9    1.0   -6.8    6.8  -34.6    8.2   11.6   13.9
September               -0.3    0.2   -3.3    5.7  -33.6   11.2   14.8    9.7
October                  2.0   -1.5    2.1    5.0  -31.6   17.9   14.1   10.5
November                 1.8   -0-6    4.2    6.7  -12.8    8.8   11.2   1l.5
December                 3.2   -2.7   -0.9    3.9  -29.8    3.3    4.6    1.4
____________________________
Calculated for an average maturity of 90 days



- 19 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Outline for a Technical Assistance Program
Institutional Development of FONEI
1.        The institutional development program of the industrial recovery
project would comprise efforts to increase the effectiveness of FONEI's
promotion, training to develop financial engineering and restructuring skills,
and improvements in the management information systems.
2.          Promotion.   In the future, FONEI would concentrate on medium to
large, privately owned companies that are internationally competitive, have
promising growth prospects and aim at increased exports. To improve the
effectiveness of its promotion efforts in this target group, FONEI would
implement a promotion program consisting of the following steps:
- Build-up pro otion data base. Since the number of target ccmpanies is
sufficiently small, FONEI would, with assistance of company data
collected by BdM, establish a promotion data base, containing for each
of the target companies (i) operational data such as sector and export
performance; (ii) financial performance data such as balance sheet and
income statement (available from BdM); (iii) customer relationship data
such as past FONEI loans and number of promotional visits by FONEI
and/or the responsible 'asesor industrial" in the respective commercial
bank; (iv) promotional data such as names, addresses and telephone
numbers of important executives, and the main commercial banking
serving this company.
-  Design relatiousbip _mnagement program wLth      rcial banks. To
concentrate its scarce icanpower resources, FONEI would assign, using
the information contained in the data base, promotion priorities for
each of the target companies, applying criteria such as the company's
growth prospects, its investment plans, its export possibilities, and
its technology development plans and prospects. Based on these
priorities, FONEI would, together with the respective commercial banks,
design and implement a relationship management program for its target
clients, consisting of (i) promotion responsibilities assigned on a
company by company basis; (ii) a more detailed analysis of the
company's financial needs; and (iii) a field visit program.
- Monitor prootion effectiveness. The success of the promotion program
will, to a large extent, depend on the monitoring of the promotion
effectiveness and the taking of corrective measures. A monitoring
program would (i) keep track of promotion efforts (such as visits) by
FONEI and commercial bank staff; (ii) check to what extent promotion
efforts result in the generation of projects and loans; and (iii)
decide periodically on the continuation, strengthening or termination
of the promotion efforts in an individual company.



- 20 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
3.         The preceding program would be complemented through training of, and
fellowships for, FONEI's promotion staff. Therefore, the project's technical
assistance component would include funds for consultant services and the costs
of fellowship programs.
4.         Fin ncial Engineering and Res tucturing.  To develop institutional
skills in financial engineering and restructuring, FONEI would design and
implement a training program for its promotion, credit analysis and supervision
staff. The program would focus on company diagnosis in fields such as strategy,
finance, operations, and organization, and it would include techniques in the
use of a broad variety of financial instruments such as commercial credit,
bonds, equity and quasi-equity. The program would finance internal and external
training programs and fellowships in other financial institutions.
5.         System Development. To improve available management information,
especially in financial planning and control, the project would help finance
consultant services and the purchase of computing equipment for the design and
implementation of a comprehensive management information system.
Analysis of Financial Markets
6.        The analysis of financial markets would consist of a study on the
long-term financing needs of industrial companies, and of studies analyzing the
development of the equity, quasi-equity, and long-term bond markets.
7.         Long-term Financing Needs of Industrial Interprime.. As a result of
the recent economic crisis, the financial situation of many industrial companies
has drastically deteriorated. Of particular concern is the high debt leverage,
the unfavorable debt maturity structure, and the high financial costs that many
enterprises face. The objective of this study would be to determine the extent
and the structure of this problem and to identify future finaucing needs of the
industrial sector. The study could make use of BdM's data base containing
financial information of industrial companies. In particular, the study should
answer the following questions:
- What is the extent of the financial problems in the industrial sector,
and which companies are mainly affected by these problems?
- To what extent do balance sheet figures differ from the actual
financial structure of a given company as a result of asset revaluation
problems?
- Are the financial problems of the industrial sector minly a result of
-external' factors (e.g., peso devaluation), or were they caused by
imprudent financial management of the affected companies?
- What is the extent of equity and long-term debt needs of the industrial
sector?
8.         Equity amd and Quasl-Equity Nerket.  The institutionalized supply of
equity and quasi-equity has generally remained limited and has largely been



- 21 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
restricted to -blue chip' companies. The objective of the equity market study
would be to analyze the current size and structure of the market and identify
future development issues. In particular, the study should address the
following questions:
- What is the structure and the size of the institutionalized equity and
quasi-equity market, who are the main users, suppliers and
intermediaries, and which are the main equity and quasi-equity
instruments being used (e.g. common and preferred stock, subordinated
and conditional loans, convertible bonds)? Which legal restrictions
have to be taken into account when using the various equity and
quasi-equity instruments?
- What are the constraints to a wider use of institutionalized equity
markets (e.g. stock exchange, mutual funds, venture capital funds,
private placements to institutional and individual investors)?
- What are the roles of the private and the public sectors in the
mobilization of additional equity after the recent enactment of new
financial sector legislation?
- Is the placement power of casas de bolsa and commercial banks
sufficient to handle an increased market volume of the stock exchange
or private placements?
- To what extent does the existing legal framework (in particular, the
taxation differential between dividend and interest income) promote the
mobilization of additional equity; to what extent does it provide a
disincentive?
9.         Bond Narket. Until now, the bond market has remained small and has
not developed into an effective complement of commercial credit supply. The
objective of the bond market study would be to analyze size and participants of
the market and to identify the issues that are restricting a wider use of bonds
by industrial companies. In particular, the study would focus on the following
questions:
- What is the current size of the bond market, who are the main users,
investors and intermediaries, what are the main characteristics
(amounts, maturities, interest rates, fees for management, underwriting
and selling) of recent bond issues?
- Does the use of bonds offer cost advantages (e.g., administrative
costs, opportunity costs of equity, risk premium) or financial
advantages (e.g., maturity structure) over the use of long-term
commercial credit to the issuing company?
- Is the placement power of casas de bolsa and commercial banks
sufficient to handle an increased market volume?



- 22 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
- To what extent are bonds being viewed by institutional and personal
investors as 'acceptable' investment instruments?
- To what extent does the current legal and regulatory framework promote
the use of bonds for industrial financing, to what extent does it
provide a disincentive?
Implementation of the Technical Assistance Program
10.       As executing agency of the project, FONEI would be responsible for the
implementation of the technical assistance program. FONEI would prepare detailed
terms of reference for the training programs of its staff and the studies
covering financial market issues, and it would submit the terms of reference to
the Bank for approval prior to hiring consultants. Once the terms of reference
are approved, FONEI would hire the consultants and supervise study
implementation. Upon completion, FONEI would submit a final report of the
studies carried out under the technical assistance program to the Bank. The
timetable for the implementation of the technical assistance program is as
follows:
- To ensure speedy implementation of the project's credit component, the
promotion program would receive top priority in the timing of the
technical assistance program. By the end of September 1986, FONEI would
prepare a detailed timetable for the execution of the promotion program
along the lines spelled out in paras. 1 to 3, including terms of
reference for consulting services and promotion staff training. At the
same time, FONEI would start building up the promotion data base, which
should be completed not later than December 1986, and it would also
hire consultants and organize the fellowship programs so that the
implementation of the promotion program can start in January 1987.
- The program for staff training in financial engineering and
restructuring would be prepared during the third quarter of 1986 by
FONEI's training department; the implementation of the program would
take place in 1987/88.
- FONEI has already started preparation of its system development
program; it has carried out a feasibility study for improvements in the
computer support of its information systems and it has begun a
discussion of the results of the study with its technical committee. By
September 1986, FONEI would prepare detailed terms of reference for a
comprehensive information system development plan, which should
indicate the various modules of the future information system as well
as the hardware and software requirements for its implementation.
Consultants for the implementation of this plan would be hired during
the last quarter of 1986, so that the system could be designed and
developed during 1987.
- The terms ot reference for the financial market studies would be
prepared until September 30, 1986. Until December 30, 1986, FOhEI would
hire consultants; the studies would be carried out starting January 1,
1987.



- 23 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Operations of the Fondo Nacional de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
1.        Founded in 1971 as a semi-autonomous department of the Banco de
Mexico, FONEI has become an important source of industrial term lending in
Mexico, highly regarded by the commercial banks and the private sector. Today,
FONEI is administering a wide variety of industrial financing programs, and it
has become an important source of technical assistance through external training
programs covering project analysis and supervision. In addition, FONEI has
developed detailed guidelines for project design, evaluation and supervision for
its own use as well as that of participating financial intermediaries and
benefiting companies, thus ensuring adequate preparation, selection and
implementation of financed subprojects.
Financial Performance
2.         Profitability.  Until now, FONEI has demonstrated a good financial
performance and maintained a sound financial structure. Even after allowing for
inflation, operating profits increased steadily over the last six years. In
real terms, FONEI's return on equity increased from 41% in 1979 to 138Z in 1981;
then, however, it fell to only 8Z in 1983 as a result of the high inflation
rates during this period, and recovered to 28% in 1984. The main reason for the
good performance is the favorable interest rate structure of FONEI s balance
sheet. While succeeding in replacing low-yielding fixed rate assets through
variable rate assets whose interest rate is tied to the CPP, FONEI'S liabilities
have been, until now, dominated by low-cost, fixed rate refinancing instruments
such as the Banco de Mexico bonds and previous Bank loans.
3.        In the future, however, the mismatching profits of previous years
will decline. The net interest income will decrease because favorable fixed
rate liabilities, maturing over the next year, will have to be replaced by more
expensive variable rate refinancing instruments. In addition, the devaluations
of 1982/83 have also increased the costs of external borrowing and will
continue to have a negative profitability effect in the future. To maintain
its favorable financial performance, FONEI intends to increase its lending rate
to the commercial banks to at least CPPI1 to cover its own opportunity costs of
funding and its administrative expenses. In addition, the Government has
agreed to finance subsidies of the technology development program through
direct budget appropriations.
4.         Arrears. The participating commercial banks are responsible for
making principal and interest payments to FONEI on time, whether or not they
receive payment from their industrial clients. FONEI, therefore, does not show
any subloans in arrears and makes no provision for possible losses in its
lending operations. However, as part of its supervision requirements, FONEI asks
the financial intermediaries to submit periodic reports on the status of subloan
payments in arrears. These reports show that subloans in arrears as a percentage
of FONEI's total loan portfolio have been maintained at a rather reasonable
level, notwithstanding the increase from 0.7% in 1982 to 1.8% in 1983 and 2.7%
in 1984.



- 24 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
5.         Asset and Liability Structure.  The structure of assets and
liabilities changed substantially over the 1979-1984 period. On the asset side,
investments in Government bonds, reaching a peak of 11% in 1980, are down to a
mere 1% of total assets; all available resources are now invested in the loan
portfolio. On the liability side, domestic funding, originally representing soae
50% of total assets, declined to only about 10Z in 1984. Funding through Bank
projects also declined from 431 in 1979 to 34% in 1984. The share of equity, on
the other hand, increased from 4% in 1979 to 45% in 1984. The main reasons for
this increase were the Government's policy to capitalize the repayment
obligations of the Bank loans and the complete retention of FONEI's current
profits.
6.         Portfolio Growth aud Composition.  The economic and financial crisis
also impacted the level of FONEI's operations. After strong growth in the late
1970s and early 1980s, FONEI's expansion came to a halt; in real terms, the
balance sheet size even decreased in the last two years. While total assets grew
by 34% in real terms from 1979 to 1980, real growth was limited to merely
6% in the following two years. In 1983 and 1984, total assets declined by about
25% per year in real terms, while the level of new commitments, measured in
constant prices, declined in 1984 to only 25% of the peak in 1981. For the
future, however, FONEI is expecting an increase of its commitments in line with
the ongoing industrial recovery.
Lending Strategy
7.        Traditionally, FONEI has focused on the supply of long-term financing
to medium to large companies, leaving the financing of smaller companies to
other Fideicomisos such as FOGAIN. In addition, FONEI views itself as a private
sector-oriented institution that finances primarily companies that are
privately owned or have a majority private ownership. In all of its
operations, FONEI acts as a second-tier institution, rediscounting loans of
comercial banks, to take advantage of the banks' existing customer portfolio
and lending experience while avoiding unnecessary duplication of efforts.
While FONEI has achieved a high degree of operating efficiency, it remains a
passive rediscounting window for long-term project financing. To play a more
active role in industrial sector development, FONEI intends to broaden the
scope of its financial assistance and the variety of the financial instruments
it offers. In addition, it inter.ds to amend its current price policy, terms
and limits of financing as well as its current risk policy.
8.         Product Line.  In the past, FONEI has concentrated on equipment-
financing through long-term loans, which, together with lending for capacity
optimization, accounted for more than 75% of commitments.  Other assistance
programs such as technology development and working capital financing have begun
only recently and represent only a tsmall, yet growing proportion of FONEI's
overall operations. In the future, FONEI would like, with the support of the
proposed industrial recovery loan, to place more emphasis on the design of
integrated financial packages for a company as a whole rather than o01 the
financing of discrete equipment investments. Consequently, FONEI intends to
broaden its product line with respect to both the expenditures eligible for
financing and the financial instruments used.



- 25 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
9.        As a new program, FONEI would introduce the financing of working
capital investments, and it would substantially upgrade, with the support of
the Bank, its efforts in the financing of technology development. In addition,
FONEI would offer long-term loans to financial intermediaries which, in turn,
would use the funds for equity or quasi-equity investments. To help companies
with promising investment projects, but without sufficient collateral, FONEI
intends to offer, on a trial basis, a limited number of loan guarantees. To
counter the adverse cash flow effects of high nominal interest rates, FONEI
would introduce PVP as an option to industrial borrowers.
10.        Price Policy. After charging fixed interest rates on its portfolio
in the initial years of operation, FONEI moved to a system of variable interest
rates based on the CPP under the second Bank-supported FONEI loan. Today, the
bulk of PONEI's portfolio carries CPP-related interest rates; only a few old
loans are still based on a fixed interest rate. Initially, FONEI's equipment
loans were made at CPP+2, based on the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA)
with the Bank. In 1984, however, FONEI increased its equipment lending rate to
CPP+5 because of increases in market interest rates. This rate is currently
competitive with co mmercial lending rates. For other programs, the
intermediaries charge subsidized rates: CPP-3 for technology development; CPP
for pollution control; and CPP-3 for pre-investment studies.
11.        Terms and Lidits of Financing. Under its current operation
regulations, FONEI can lend up to 3% of its assets for any single project and up
to 5% to any single company. For projects of high priority, FONEI's technical
conuittee (its highest decision-saking body) can authorize higher amounts,
subject, however, to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Loan maturities
and grace periods are being determined based on the characteristics of the
project to be financed. The maxinm maturity for any loan is 13 years. In their
previous form, the operating regulations limited FONEI's financial participation
to some 70Z of the costs of a subproject, while the remainder was to be
contributed by the financial intermediary and the final borrower. This
regulation, however, has recently been changed to allow for cases in which a
company is  underleveraged". As a result, FONEI's financial participation now
depends on the situation of the particular company and the project to be
financed, and it can be as high as 90% of total project costs.
12.        Risk Policy. In its traditional lending areas (e.g., equipment)
FONEI has limited itself to the funding of investment projects without assuming
the default risk, which rests entirely with the respective commercial bank. In
only a few exceptional cases has FONEI assumed the default risk to ensure
implementation of priority projects which did not have collateral sufficient for
traditional commercial bank credit. FONEI offers credit guarantees of up to 90%
of a loan otly under its technology development program, aiming primarily at
smaller firrs that do not have sufficient collateral. In the future, FONEI
intends to maintain this risk policy for its equipment lending. However, it
intends to broaden its risk lending in technology development under the
Bank-supported technology development project (appraised in August 1NS), and it
also intends, on a test basis, to offer credit guarantees for investment
projects that do not meet the collateral requirements of comercial banks.



- 26 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
Business System
13.       Over the years, FONEI has developed a business system that is largely
meeting current requirements of FONEI's strategy. The main elements of the
business system - promotion, subproject appraisal and supervision, and
external training programs - have, in the past, been sufficient to support
FONEI's role as a largely passive rediscounting mechanism of long-term
financing. However, given FONEI's strategic shift from passive rediscounting to
more active financial engineering while delegating typical banking activities
to financial intermediaries, the business system will have to be adjusted,
especially in the areas of promotion and subproject processing.
14.        Promotion and Acquisition.  FONEI's management recognizes that
adequate promotion is one of the critical prerequisites for the successful
supply of financial services. In the early stages of FONEI's institutional
development, all promotion activities were concentrated in a separate
organizational unit; today, promotion is the responsibility of one of FONEI's
departments (subdireccion de promocion). The department is staffed with five
professionals. In its promotion activities, FONEI focuses mainly on Hexico's
industrial centers around the capital and the cities of Monterrey and
Guadalajara, where it has established regional promotion offices. The existing
external training programs that FONEI offers to banks and companies complement
the direct promotional activities. In these programs, staff of potential
clients and financial intermediaries not only familiarize themEelves with the
techniques of project appraisal and supervision, but also get a. comprehensive
picture of what FONEI does and what it can offer. In addition, FONEI keeps a
record of all ex-participants of its courses and circulates a monthly sumnry
of its activities to this group. Ex-participants who have been promoted within
their organization are being put into a special register for reference and
special promotion activities.
15.       About 50% of the professional staff time available for promotion is
being used for -field activities' such as company visits and promotional
seminars. In these field activities, FONEI has tried to leverage its limited
promotion capacity to the extent possible, restricting the tire used for direct
company visiti  (5% of available staff time) while focusing primarily on visits
to commercial banks (25%) and industrial associations (20%). In addition, the
promotion staff provides initial guidance in the preparation of the required
documents to companies applying for a loan. However, whether the strong tilt
toward -wholesale promotion" has paid of-" remains questionable. While FONEI
has developed excellent relationships with many of the commercial banks and
private sector organizations, only some 20% of all projects are being
identified through these channels; the remaining 80% of the projects result
from direct company applications.
16.       To improve the effectiveness of its promotion efforts in its target
group of medium to large private industrial companies, FONEI has recently
introduced a program of "industrial advisers" in commercial banks. Under this
program, FONEI pays part of the salary of the adviser and receives, in return,
staff time of the adviser for project promotion and preparation. Under the
project, FONEI would implement additional measures in promotion and staff
development, including the establishment of a promotion data base containing



- 27 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
important company data of target clients, design of a relationship management
program together with the commercial banks, and monitoring of promotion
effectiveness (Annex 6).
17.        Subproject Preparatilon and Appraisal. By now, FONEI has become an
experienced institution in project finance and is training financial
intermediaries as well as companies in preparing, evaluating and supervising
investment projects. As a result, its process of preparing and appraising
subprojects is well developed and meets Bank standards for subproject
evaluation. The criteria being applied for the evaluation of subproject
applications include all standard Bank requirements and are considered sound.
Over the years, FONEI has, in its daily practice with the Bank, also developed
adequate reporting formats to be submitted to the Bank for subproject
evaluation.
18.       Originally, FONEI was almost exclusively responsible for evaluating
subproject applications, receiving little help from the respective financial
intermediary. In recent years, however, the distribution of responsibilities
between FONEI and the banks has changed. At FONEI's insistence, the banks are
now assuming an increasing role in the preparation and appraisal of
subprojects. To stimulate their participation, FONEI iP offering the
intermediaries an additional spread of 0.25% for a project appraisal.
19.       The typical preparation and approval process of a subloan application
takes about four months. FONEI requires about one week for the initial review
of an application, mainly to determine the eligibility of a subproject for
FONEI financing. After the initial review, in which the outline of a
feasibility study and the information requirements for the approval process are
also being discussed with the enterprise and the financial intermediary, the
company typically needs about two months to prepare the required feasibility
study - either alone or with the help of a consultant. FONEI then needs about
another 1.5 months to process the application. The length of the process as a
whole is comparable to commercial banking practices and has not emerged as an
issue with FONEI's customers.
20.       However, to speed up the subproject appraisal process and take
advantage of the increased appraisal and supervision capabilities of many of
the commercial banks, FONEI would simplify its appraisal and supervision
process and delegate more responsibilities to participating intermediaries. In
particular, FONEI would take the following measures:
- If the subproject appraisal has been carried out by a project evaluator
who has participated successfully in FONEI's training programs, FONEI
would receive only a summary evaluation from the intermediary. Full
docume-itation (appraisal report, feasibility study) would be required
in other cases.
- Subloans of less than about US$1 million would be approved within FONEI
by an internal loan committee; only larger subprojects would be
submitted to FONEI's technical committee for approval.



- 28 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
- Under the project, PONEI would calculate an economic rate of return for
all subloans in excess of US$1 million. A financial rate of return
would be calculated for all subloans, except for working
capital subloans below US$1 million.
21.        Subproject S.pervisiom. As in project appraisal, FONEI's supervision
process also meetq Bank requirements for DFCs. Currently, FONEI's supervision
portfolio comprises some 400 projects. Not ail of these projects, however, are
being actively supervised; rather, FONEI is concentrating on projects with
implementation probleus, leaving the supervision of problem-free projects to the
respective financial Intermediary. The iatermediary, ln turn, is to submit to
FONEI a supervision report of all subprojects every six months. The supervision
process would also be simplified in the future. The main improvements would
include reduced general reporting requirements for smaller subprojects and
reduced supervision of problem-free subprojects after an initial period.
22.        External Tralning Progra  . In addition to its financial assistance,
FONEI has become, over the last years, an important source of training for
financial intermediaries, industrial companies and consultants In the
preparation, appraisal and supervision of Industrial investment projects. The
training courses - initialny two weeks, with subsequent refresher courses of
three days each four times a year - are aimed at qualified professional staff
of banks, companies and consulting firms. The largest group of participants
comes from the banks: over the five years of training activities of FONEI, some
1,100 banking employees, about 300 company employees, and about 120 consultants
have participated in the courses.
Institutional Profile
23.       The future strategy would also require changes in FONEI's
institutional setup. The organizational structure would have to be amended to
allow for the increasing importance and particular characteristics of technology
financing. The managewent information systems would have to be upgraded to the
future requirements of financial management and promotion, and the personnel
policy would have to secure high-quality personnel within the salary
restrictions of BdM.
24.        Organizational Structure. FONEI's highest ranking decision-making
body is its technical committee,composed of high level Government officials from
the Ministry of Finance, BdM, the Ministry of Planning, NAFINSA, the Ministry of
Commerce and Industrial Development, and industrial chambers. The technical
committee meets once a month; its responsibilities include the approval of its
operating rules and regulations, the appointment of FONEI's general director,
and the approval of individual loans. For technology subprojects, the technical
committee has delegated most of its authority to a special subcommittee, that
includes officials from a number of research institutes, private sector
representatives and Governument ministries. FONEI is managed by a director; it
is organized into four departments, covering promotion, project evaluation and
supervision, external training, and administration.



- 29 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
25.        Management Infoxmation System    FONEI's current information and
accounting system is still in its early stages of development. While basic data
are now available on computers, evaluation and processing tools are still
rudimentary and do not allow a comprehensive and decision-oriented evaluation.
Much of the preparation process in financial planning and control is still being
done manually, and some important planning data (e.g., financial projections,
interest structure of assets and liabilities) are not readily available. BdM's
Univac mainframe offers only Fortran and Cobol; advanced languages or more
sophisticated application modules are not available. In addition, FONEI enjoys
only low priority on the mainframe and can therefore often not access the
existing information. As a result, the application of EDP for information
retrieval and processing has been limited.
26.       FONEI recognizes that improvements in this area will be necessary; to
overcome these problems, FONEI intends to expand its EDP hardware and software
capabilities substantially in the immediate future. The centerpiece of its
future EDP equipment would a be minicomputer, which would give FONEI adequate
mainframe support for the bulk of its operations. In addition, FONEI plans to
strengthen its project evaluation capabilities through additional
microcomputers with ready made software.
27.        Personnel Planning and Development. Traditionally, FONEI has
attempted to build up a highly qualified and experienced staff of senior
professionals for a}l of its operations. It has emphasized the necessity of
offering competitive salaries and providing adequate career prospects to its
professional staff. In its recruitment efforts, FONEI has not only focused on
current employees of BdM and university graduates, but it has also attempted to
recruit an increasing number of qualified professionals from outside. However,
given salary restrictions within BdM and limited internal career prospects,
FONEI has had difficulties competing with the private sector and the commercial
banks in personnel recruitment and retention.
28.       In recognition of these constraints, FONEI is currently reviewing its
recruitment and personnel management strategy. While it will be impossible in
the future to compete effectively with commercial banks and the private sector,
FONEI can position itself as an att.tactive first employer for outstanding
university graduates who are interested in a long-term career in projezt
financing. In this role, FONEI can offer excellent on-the-job training and good
connections to prospective future employers within the private sector. An
average employment period of about five years would be commensurate with this
approach, ensuring not only that sufficient experience is being built up but
also that FONEI can -- at least for a period of two to three years - take
advantage of its original training input.
Future Operations and Funding Requirements
29.        Projected Cbmmtments.  Since the industrial sector, as well as the
economy as a whole, is only slowly recuperating from the 1982/83 crisis, it is
unlikely that industrial investment and, thus, long-term financing needs will,
in the near future, reach the levels of the early 1980s. Nevertheless, a
recovery process is in place and has led to increasing commitments under FONEI's



- 30 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
lending programs as well as to a strong pipeline of projects under consideration
by FONEI and the commercial banks. In addition, the possibility of working
capital financing is expected to result in additional demand for FONEI's
resources, especially considering the declining liquidity levels in uany
companies over 1985.
30.       FONEI estimates that its total annual commitments will grow from
Mex$ 26 billion in 1985 to Mex$ 51 billion in 1990 (constant terms), equivalent
to an annual growth rate of 15% in real terms. While the equipment lending
program is expected to show moderate growth after an initial recuperation
period, the working capital program is likely to show the highest growth rates
in the initial years, given current financial needs of the industrial sector.
In addition, the technology development program, including the commercialization
of technologies, is expected to grow rapidly over the next few years, especially
after the process of import-liberalization has begun.
31.        Funding Requirements.  Assuming a Bank participation of 50Z in
FONEI's future commitments under the proposed industrial recovery project, FONEI
would require, in addition to its internal resource generation, about US$70
million to carry out the lending program envisaged in its financial
projections. This program assumes that the use of PVP loans would increase from
50% of total commitments in 1985 to 80% of commitmento in 1987, and that all
loans under the pilot equity component, as well as all loans under FONEI's
technology development lending program, would be based on the PVP repayment
mechanism. In addition, the program assumes that, as agreed to between the Bank
and the Government during appraisal of the proposed technology project,
subsidies planned under the technology development program would be transferred
directly to FONEI and would not have to be financed out of FONEI's internal
resource generation.
32.        Projected Financial Results.  Under the above assumptions, FONEI's
assets are expected to grow from Mex$ 36 billion at the end of 1984 to Mex$ 116
billion (constant terms) at the end of 1989, implying an annual compound growth
rate of 20% in real terms, which does not appear excessive given the reduction
of the balance sheet in previous years and the expansionary balance sheet impact
of the PVP-Loans. Net profits are expected to grow from from Mex$ 4 billion in
1985 to Mex$ 18 billion in 1989. With these profits, FONEI would achieve a
return on assets of about 122 and a return on equity of about 14% in real
terms. Thus, FONEI's financial structure is expected to remain sound over the
forecast period.
Auditing
33.       In line with Bank requirements, FONEI has submitted to the Bank its
audited financial statements within the six months time limit (except for a
three months delay in 1983). The audits, carried out by the accounting firm
Alfonso Ochoa Ravize, did not contain any qualifications.



- 31 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Experience with Past Lending
1.        The Bank has made four loans to FONEI. In addition, FONEI is
participating as executing agency in Bank-supported projects for capital goods
development, export promotion and pollution control. The first two FONEI loans
(US$35 million, 1972; US$50 million, 1976) helped to set up FONEI and establish
basic project evaluation capabilities within the institution. Bank funds
available under these loans were allocated to sound subprojects (according to
the project performance audit report) and had a substantial foreign exchange
and employment impact - albeit lower than originally forecast. Improving the
project appraisal capabilities of participating financial intermediaries,
however, turned out tc be more difficult than expected. As a result, the
following two operations (US$100 million, 1978; US$175 million, 1979), in
addition to providing scarce long-term resources for industrial investment,
focused on improving the project preparation and appraisal capabilities of
industrial companies and commercial banks. The experience under these loans,
as it relates to subproject characteristics and performance, is discussed
in the following paragraphs.
Portfolio Distribution
2.        FONEI offers nedium- to long-term financing through a wide variety of
programs. An Industrial Equipment Program (65Z of 1984 commitments) offers
financing for the establishment of new, or the expansion, modernization, or
relocation of existing, enterprises. Through a component included in the Bank
supported Capital Goods Development Project, FONEI has also begun to offer
working capital financing (7%) for capital goods industries. A Technology
Development Program (13Z), established under the FONEI IV project, offers
financial assistance for technical research and adaptation of new processes and
products. Other resources are available for capacity optimization (IIZ), and
preinvestment studies (1%). The Bank-supported Pollution Control Program (1%)
is aimed at companies located in zones of dense industrial concentration. A
Special Program (3X), providing emergency liquidity assistance, was initiated
in response to the economic and financial crisis in 1982/83 and is now
terminating.
3.         Customer Foeos.  In line with FONEI's focus on medium to large
enterprises, the largest portion of FONEI's financial resources is being
committed to a smaln number of sizable enterprises. For example, 70Z of the 1984
commitments of FONEB'a industrial equipment program went into only 15 loans,
each of a size larger than Nex$175 million, representing about one-third of all
loans m*de during this perio-1. The remaining 30% of the commitments were more
equally distributed in smaller operations. The average subloan size, however,
decreased in real terms throughout the 1979-84 period, and represented, In 1984,
only 25Z of the 1979 figure. About one-third of FONEI': clients are new
enterprises, while the remaining two-thirds are existing companies requiring
financing for the expansion of their production. State-owned companies play



- 32 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
only a minor role in FONEI's activities; only 6X of the number of subloans,
representing 8% of the total subloan amounts, were made to publicly owned
companies in the period of 1980-1984.
4.         Sectoral Distribution.  Traditionally, the metal products and
machinery sector and the secondary petrochemicals sector have been the largest
recipients of FONEI lending, accounting for more than 50% of the commitments for
most of the years. In 1984, for example, commitments to the metal products and
machinery sector reached 27% of total comitments; commitments to the secondary
petrochemical sector were 25Z of the total. Other important sectors include
non-metallic minerals (13%), basic metals industries (12%), and textiles (10%).
Producers of intermediate goods represented the largest share of FONEI's
customers, accounting for 72% of 1984 commitments, while capital goods producers
accounted for only some 12% of 1984 commitments, down from 49% a year earlier.
5.         Regional Focus. The regional compoeition of FONEI's portfolio
closely follows the pattern of industrial concentration in Mexico. The largest
proportion of its lending program (20% of 1984 commitments) is being channeled
to the province of Nuevo Leon, which contains the industrial center of
Monterrey. The second most important area is Mexico City and its surroundings
(17%), followed by Jalisco (8Z), Tlaxcala (7%), and San Luis Potosi (7%).
Together, these regions account for almost two thirds of FONEI's lending
program.
6.         Financil Intermediaries.  Although all of Mexico's commercial banks
are eligible to participate as intermediaries, FONEI's lending activities are
concentrated within a small group of banks. Five banks (Banco Internacional,
BANFAIS, BANCOMER, NAFINSA, and BANCOMEXT) accounted for more than 50X; 11
banks, for more than 90% of total commitments in 1984. Banco Internacional, a
medium-sized bank by Mexican standards, was, with a share of almost 15%, the
most active financial intermediary in 1984. The remaining 10% of total
commitments were distributed among smaller regional banks.
7.         Loan Naturity. Most of the new loans have a maturity between four
and seven years; 82% of the 1984 commitments fall into this category. Only 4% of
the 1984 commitments had a maturity of less than four years; 14% of the new
loans had a maturity of seven to ten years.
8.         Financial Composition. Although FONEI could finance up to 75% of an
investment according to the past operating regulations, its financing share in
the subprojects in which it participated has been about 30% over the last few
years. The borrowing company has, on average, contributed 25-30%, and financial
intermediaries have contributed another 20-25% of total project costs, including
associated working capital requirements. The remaining funds were contributed by
other sources such as suppliers' credits or intercompany borrowings. While
domestic intercompany lending is likely to continue playing a role in project
financing, the availability of foreign suppliers' credits has declined sharply.
As a result, FONEI expects to finance an increasing share of the investment
costs in the future.



- 33 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
Subproject Performance
9.        FONEI financed subprojects -  as the industrial sector in general -
were affected by the economic crisis. Because of sharply increasing inflation
and the slump in domestic demand, a substantial number of investment projects
suffered from cost overruns and unsatisfactory sales, leading to diminished
financial and economic rates of return. The contribution to the balance of
payments and employment creation, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
10.        Rturn 05 Ian *atint mmd Company Profitability.  According to the
financial and economic rates of return that were calculated during subproject
appraisal, FONEI is financing economically and financially sound investments.
For example, the average financial rate of .eturn (FRR) of the subprojects
authorized in 1984 was 36Z; the average economic rate of return (ERR) was 60X.
FONEI has also calculated ex-post financial rates of return of a sample of 20
subprojects approved in previous years to assess the actual performance of
company investments. According to this sample, two-thirds of the companies
reported FRRs below the originAl projected rate; one-third, above original
projections. The average actual FRR was 17Z, 3Z below the average rate of 20%
that was originally projected. The actual ERR is likely to exceed the actual
FRR, given the above difference between the projected rates.
11.       The economic and financial problems facing the industrial sector as a
whole have affected both the actual investment costs of the subprojects
(through increasing inflation) and the sales performance (through declining
domestic and international demand). Cost overruns were common throughout the
1981-1984 period but did not exceed domestic inflation: they were moderate for
projects supervised in 1981 (13% over original cost estimate), and they
increased to a level of 62Z over the original cost estimate in 1984. The sales
performance followed the development of the general economic situation: in
1982, actual sales remained 21% below projected sales (constant prices), and in
1983, this difference increased to 44%. In 1984, however, the situatirri
improved; actual sales were only 26% below their projected level. The impact
of the general economic conditions becomes especially apparent when analyzing
the current profitability situation of FONEI's clients with ongoing projects:
in 1981, only 15% of the borrowing companies experienced losses; by 1983, this
figure had risen to 44%; and, in 1984, it declined only marginally to +2%. In
contrast, in 1981, 39% of the borrowing companies reported profits as projected
or above; in 1984, only 19% of the companies were performing as well as
projected or better.
12.        Bal mce-of-Payments Impact.  "I^ number of export oriented projects,
and with it the amount of funds committed for this purpose, has increased
substantially in the last two years, in line with the general upsurge of
Mexico's industrial exports. In 1984, 57% of commitments under the equipment
financing program were for export-oriented projects, up from 34% in 1984 and
only 14Z in 1982. However, the actual export performance of the subprojects
financed has lagged substantially behind expectations at the time of subproject
appraisal. According to a sample of 40 companies, only 10 companies met or
exceeded the projected export targets; on average, only 60X of the expected
exports materialized.



- 34 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
13.        Eiployinnt Creation. FONEI-financed subprojects had a substantial
employment impact. In 1984, for example, FONEI-financed subprojects helped
create a total of 27,000 jobs. In 1981/82, the number of jobs created initially
exceeded projections during subproject appraisal, but then fell below
expectations, mainly because of the impact of the economic crisis.
14.       As a result of these problems, FONEI's subproject evaluation process
w.ll have to focus more on the viability and the competitiveness of the company
as a whole, going beyond the limited subproject focus. The proposed project
will therefore emphasize the development of adequate know-how and expertise in
corporate strategy, marketing and market assessment as well as finance to
improve FONEI's appraisal capacity.
Disbursement Speed
15.       While the previous FONEI loans have achieved many of their
institution- building objectives, the disbursement speed has only partially met
original expectations. The first of the FONEI loans experienced a startup delay
of more than one year because of managerial problems, lack of promotion, and
high liquidity in the banking system. As a result, commitments were spread over
a five-year period; disbursements required six years, and the closing date had
to be postponed four times. FONEI II and III were committed and disbursed more
quickly, largely in line with appraisal estimates. FONEI IV, however, required
six years for commitments and has been fully disbursed only recently. One of
the reasons for the slow implementation speed has been the impact of the
economic crisis, resulting in a sharp decline of industrial investment and
demand for investment financing. In addition, FONEI's limited scope of
financial instruments and insufficient promotion efforts have contributed to
these problems.
16.       To ensure a better disbursement performance of the proposed new
operation, special emphasis would be placed on the comprehensiveness of FONEI's
financial assistance program and on adequate promotion activities. The
inclusion of freestanding working capital financing into the proposed project
is in line with the current financial needs of many industrial companies, as
was demonstrated by the recent commitment performance of the Bank supported
Capital Goods Project, which included such financing. Moreover, the
introduction of the new PVP repayment mechanibm, which alleviates the negative
cash-flow impact of high nomina'l interest rates, is expected to stimulate
demand for project funds. Also, the lack of previously available external
financial resources is expected to increase demand for funds under the loan.
Particular emphasis would be placed on program promotion, to which a portion cf
the technical assistance component would be devoted.



- 35 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Guidelines for the Financing of
Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments
by Comme rcial Banks
Equity Investments
1.        To increase the institutionalized supply of equity and improve the
financial structure of individual companies, FONEI would finance equity
investments of financial intermediaries in eligible enterprises. For these
investments, comprising common stock and preferred stock, the following rules
would apply:
- Incorporation and ouership. The company to be invested in would be a
duly incorporated entity, in accordance with Mexican laws, and its
activities would be concentrated in the industrial sector. The
controlling interest in the company (i.e., voting rights exceeding 50Z
of the company's stock) would be clearly defined. The direct or
indirect state participation in the company's equity, including the
participation of other state-owned commercial banks, would be less than
50%.
- Required cmmpan performance. To be eligible, companies would have to
have an operating return (net operating income over operating assets) of
at least 10% in real terms. Companies with a lower operating
performance would be eligible only if the investment project that is
being financed with an equity participation of a financial intermediary
would result, over the implementation period, in an operating return of
at least 10 in real terms. The propc.-d eoaity investment would have
to yield an after-tax return on equity of at least 12% in real terms.
- Extent and duration of Investment. The size and the duration of the
intermediary's investment would be based on the financial needs of
project and company. The maxiumm participation of any one financial
intermediary would be 25% of the company's equity. In case the
intermediary's participation exceeds 0I of the company's equity, the
participation would be limited to a maximum term of five years, after
which the participation would have to be reduced to not more than 10%.
In this case, the subloan application to FONEI and the documentation
submitted to the Bank would have to include a schedule indicating the
timing and the method of the reduction of the finAncial intermediary's
participation.
- Wale of znvsmtennt. The conditions of the sale of the investment after
expiration of the applicable investment period are subject to the
agreement between the commercial bank and the respective company.
Possible forms of sale would include (i) the resale of the stock to the
current owners of the company, based on a stock price that has been
repurchase the stock according to an amortization plan ('acciones de



- 36 -                            Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
amortizacion') or receive a loan for the repurchase (which, however,
could not be financed through Bank funds (ii) private placement of the
stock through, for example, existing stock brokers; or (iii) public
placement of the stock if the respective company has been registered at
the stock exchange.
- Matwlty and repayment of aubloas. The subloan maturity would depend
on the duration of the investment; it would not be less than five and
not more than 10 years. All repayment schedules of investment subloans
would be based on the PVP. The grace period of a subloan would depend
on the payout agreement between the financial intermediary and the
company; it could extend up to five years in case of full profit
retention during this period. In case the intermediary divest before the
final maturity of the subloan used to finance the investment, the
respective subloan would have to ?-e repaid to FONEI.
- Eligible expendItures. Subloans for equity investments would be used
to finance the same expenditures (plant, equipment, permanent working
capital) as regular equipment and working capital loans. As a
consequence, the investment of a financial intermediary would have to
result in an equity increase of the respective company. A transfer of
shares from current owners to financial intermediaries, or the repayment
of existing debt, would not be eligible for financing.
- Project amalysis and documentation. Equity investment projects would
be subject to the same project analysis and documentation requirements
as projects using loans for financing. However, particular emphasis
would be placed on the analysis of the company as a whole, including its
strategy and future market prospects, its financial structure and future
debt service obligations, its cash flow and the prospects for recovering
the investment within a specified time frame.
Quasi Equity Investments
2.        In addition to equity, quasi-equity instruments such as convertible
bonds and subordinated debt would be eligible for project funds under the
following conditions:
- Convertible bonds. The purchase of convertible bonds would be eligible
for project funds provided it finance. investments in plant, equipment
and working capital. Bond purchases in the secondary market would not be
eligible for financing. The yield of a convertible bond would have
to meet the interest rate minima of regular subloaDs. The conversion
rate would be negotiated between issuer and manager; upon conversion,
the rules governing equity investments would apply. The maturity of
PONEI's subloan could be extended to cover the equity investment,
subject, however, to the maturity limits for equity investment (10
years).
- Snborduated debt would be treated as regular loans. The premium for
the bigher default risk as a result of the subordination would be
subject to negotiation between borrower and lender. Maturity limits and
interest rate minima would apply.



- 37 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
MEICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
During project implementation, FONEI would prepare the following
information:
- lending Operations (annually): Comitments and Disbursements by
. Program Type
. loan Size
. Economic Sector
. Region
. Financial Intermediary
. Current Prcject Pipeline (quarterly)
- Subproject Performanee (annually):
. Financial Composition of Subprojects
. Investment Costs (Projected and Actual)
. Employent Impact
. Sales
. Foreign Exchange Generation
. Company Profits
. Implementatics Delays
- Technical Assistance Program (semi-annually):
. Progress Report on Promotion Program
 Progress Report on System Development
. Progress Report On Staff Training
. Progress Report on Implementation of Financial Market Studies



- 38 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
For monitoring purposes the following indicators would apply:
By Mid-       By Mid-        By Mid-
1987          1988           1989
- Comitments
Loan Commitments                35Z            70Z           100%
. Percent of Subloans             40%            60Z            70%
with PVP-Repayment
Mechanism
- Number of Subloans
. Equipment                       20             40             50
, Working Capital                 30             60             90
. Equity Investments               8             15             22
- Subproject Perfornmace
* Jobs Created 1/               1700           3400           4800
, Net Foreign 2/                  80            170            240
Exchange
Generation (US$ Mio)
- Iustitutional Development
* Revised Appraisal         Application
and Supervision
Procedure
. Promotion Program         Application
. System Development           Design     Implementation
. Staff Training           Implementation    Completed
. Financial Market         Implementation    Completed
Studies
1/ Total number of jobs projected for subprojects approved by above date
(cumulative)
2/ Net foreign exchange generation per year of full operation projected for
subprojects approved by above date (cumulative)



- 39 -
MEXICO                          Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
IBRO Fiscal Year          Disbur.emenLs in              Cumulative
and Quarter                    Quarter                Disburaements
1986-87
September 30, 1986                          0.0                        0.0
Decerber 31, 1986                            1.0                       1.0
March 31, 1987                               2.0                       3.0
June 30, 1987                               4.0                        7.0
1987-88
Septerber 30. !S87                          6.5                       13.5
December 31, 1987                           7.0                       20.5
March 31, 1988                              6.5                       27.0
June 30, 1988                               8.6                       35.0
1988-89
September 30, 1988                         10.0                       45.0
December 31, 1988                          10.0                       55.6
March 31, 1989                               9.5                      64.5
June 30, 1989                              10.0                       74.5
1989-90
September 30. 1989                          9.5                       84.0
December 31, 1989                          10.0                       94.0
March 31, 1990                              9.S                      103.5
June 30, 1990                              10.0                      113.5
1990-91
September 30, 1990                          5.5                      119.6
December 31, 1990                           6.6                      125.0
March 31, 1991                              S.                      130.0
-June 30, 1991                               4.0                      134.0



- 40 -
MEXICO                        Anmez 8
Page 2 of 2
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
IBRD F15cal Year        Disbursements in            Cumulative
and Ouarter                  Quarter              Disbursements
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------
1991-92
September 30, 1991                       5.0                     139.0
December 31, 1991                        2.0                     141.0
March 31, 1992                           4.0                     145.0
June 30, 1992                            2.0                     147.0
1992-93
September 30, 1992                       2.5                     149.5
December 31, 1992 Cc)                    6.5                     150.0
(a) The appraisal estimate disbursements schedule is based on the
average disbursement profile for DFC projects in LCP during 1970-80.
{b) Last date for the submission of subprojects for Bank financing
(December 31, 1990).
tc) Closing date (December 31, 1992).



- 41 -                                    Annex 9
T I
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Craom Dooemtic Product by Sector of OriMin
And sectoral Sres .in GDP
1975       1976     1977   197A       1979      39M0          19A1      19S2      1931      19A4
T. Ariwculture. foreetery            62.7       63.4     "4.1   71.2        70.7      75.7         30.3      79.X       42.1     3".1
id Fishin'g
Hieing                           15.0        15.9     17.1   19.5       22.4      27.4         31.6       34.5      33.5      34.1
Petroleue                       144.0       155.5   131.0  176.4       195.6     209.7        224.3     217.9      202.0     211.5
Mm_uf.cturLag                    32.A        34.3     32.5   36.5       41.3      46.4          51.9      49.3      40.4      41.9
Conatrwuctlen                      .2        9.2       9.9   10.7       11.A      12.6         13.6       14.6      14.7      15.7
Ulectricity                     153.0       163.1    135.9  179.0      200.0     213.2        234.5      230.0     207.0     212.5
Comerce                          37.9        39.R     42.5   47.3       55.2      63.0         69.7       6J.1     63.9       67.5
Trnoport 6 Commnications         3.2        6,.9      71.5   74.6       74.3      42.2         33.1       44.6      90.S      92.3
pinaelal Serrieuu               S8.2       93.2    96.6  103.3        101.6     103.6         1136.     122.0     135.1     139.5
Other Servie.
Total C3P                       337.0       643.3    35.3 719.4        777.2     441.3        903.4      903.     469.2     A99.3
Sectoral Composition of CDP (2)
1975      1976     1977   197J       1979       1930         1931       1932     1903       1944
Total CDP J1                     '7.0      633.3    335.3  719.4       777.2     342.3         904.3    903.3      469.2     499.6
Perc ntP g
T. Agriclture. Forsteary            10.2         9.9     10.2    9.9        9.1       9.0          4.8        3.4       9.4       9.3
id Frishing
mining (includ.   etroleum)       2.4         2.5      2.6    2.7        2.9       3.2           3.5       3.A       3.9       3.4
Mmufacturing                     24.0        24.2     24.2  24.3        25.2      24.9          24.7      24.1      23.2      23.5
Cm,.trwutium                      3.3         5.3      4.9    5.1        5.3       5.5          5.7        5.5       4.6       4.7
Electricity                       1.3         1.4      1.5    15        1.5       1.5           1.5       1.6       1.7       1.7
Cooreo                          25.6        25.4     24.9  24.9        25.7      25.7         25.3       25.4      23.R      23.3
Transport & Cmmunications         6.1         6.2      6.4    6.6        7.1       7.5          7.7        7.4       7.4       7.5
Finwnclal Servtcee               10.7        10.7     10.7   10.4       10.1       9.4          9.5        9.A      20.4      10.3
Other Services                   14.3        14.5     14.5   14.4       13.1       12.9         12.4      13.5      15.5      15.5
Yearly Growth Rates bT Sector (I)
Percentage
IT. Agriculture                       2.0         1.0      7.5    6.0       -2.1       7.1          6.1       -0.6       2.9       2.4
muing (Incl. Petroleum)           5.3         6.1      7.6   14.3       14.9      22.3          15.3       9.2      -2.7       1.6
Manufecturing                     5.0         5.0      3.5    9.A       10.6       7.2           7.0      -2.9      -7.3       4.7
Conotructlon                      5.9        4.6      -5.3   12.4       13.2      12.3          11.9      -5.0     -14.0       3.7
U ectricity                       5.4        12.2      7.6    7.9       10.3       6.4           7.9       7.4       0.7       7.0
coinrce                           5.2         3.2      1.3    7.9       11.7       R.1          3.5       -1.9     -10.0       2.7
Transport 6 Co u icetieno        10.0         5.1      6.6   12.5       15.5      14.1          10.6      -3.7       4.X       5.7
Govern-ent                        4.9         4.0      3.4    4.4        5.4       4.6           4.7       2.9       2.3       2.5
Other Services                    4.5         5.7      3.3    6.7        7.3       6.9           7.6       4.5       0.3       3.3
Total                             5.6         4.2      3.4    3.2        9.2        R,3          4.0      -0.6      -5.3       3.5
Scure : Ranco de melico
1/ In bililm, of Nbei cn Paoo at 1970 tern
LCPI2
June 1985



- 42 -
MEXICO                             Annex 9
T 2
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
INDEX OF INDUSTRIAL PROWCTION 1I
(1970 - 100, period average)
General
Index        Mining       Manufactures        Construction       Electrlclty       Petrmleun 2/
1979          187.4          200.1             184.4                1A4.7           235.2               250.4
r              179.4         1R7.8 A.1                              tf 171.         225.5                 -
II            184.2          195.8             182.1               10.2            220.8                 -
rII           188.5          199.3             184.3                188.7           250.7                -
IV             197.6         217.7             192.9                198.6           244.0                 -
1980          205.7          244.8             198.8                208.2           251.7               310.5
1              198.2         226.5             193.1                20W.1           234.5               287.9
II            204.2          244.0             197.2                207.8           245.2              305.5
III           206.2          249.1             197.8                209.5           263.9               319.9
IV            21463          259.5            207.1                 215.A           25.4              323.9
1981          223.9          282.3            213.5                 232.1           272.4              362.3
T             214.7          261.2            206.A                 220.,           26.3               341.5
TT            224.R          30n.2            211.4                 232.7           259.4              371.A
f[i           229.4          283.9            218.6                 238.0           294.2              369.2
TV            226.6          284.1            215.0                 237.0           239.9              366.9
1982          219.5          308.3            206.5                 220.3           28A.3              395.0
I             227.4          2R6.0            219.9                 225.2           263.3              370.7
II            226.3-         309.7            213.4                 231.5           284.6              393.3
III           213.2          314.4            201.8                 225.2           313.2              406.6
Iv            206.0          323.0            190.9                 199.1           292.1              409.5
1983          199.7          299.5            190.0                 175.5           291.9              401.9
1             Tff 7 WT25-.9                                        T T 77  X9      264.7              411.6
rI            203.3          301.2            194.7                 180.2           293.1              40R.9
rII           199.0          305.9            1R8.5                 170.7           311.4              418.2
IV            196.4          305.2            1R5.2                 171.1           368.4              414.9
19R4          209.2          304.5            200.2                 1e2.Q           309.2              413.4
I             204.6          301.7            198.5                 168.7           282.7              411.6
rI            207.6          30R.1            193.4                 179.2           302.9              408.9
irr           210.3          300.9            200.0                 187.3           327.8              41R.2
Tv            214.2          307.5            204.0                 192.8           318.4              414.9
1/ This index has a coverage based on 82 per cent of the value added of lndustrlal production in 1970.
2/ Includes extraction and refining of petroleum and natural gas. and production of basic petrochemicals.
These items are also included In the mining and manufactures categories, respectively.
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
June 1985



-43 -                                     Annex 9
T 3
ffEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
INDD O  KAUUFACTURN    ODUCTION
(1970 - 100, period average)
I                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~machinery
Gneral                                         IDOa               ROw                and
rndex        Total         Durablea           Duarblea           Naterials       SquIpmn_
1975           140.7         135.0          148.9              132.1             143.2            161.5
1976           147.5         140.5          155.7              137.4            151.7             162.6
1977           151.6         145.9          150.3              143.7             155.2            163.4
1978           166.9         157.2          177.8              153.0            171.9             193.8
1979           184.4        172.8           200.8              167.1            189.8             221.4
1              178.2         166.9          189.8              162.2            184.1             208.5
_I             182.2         170.3          197.9              164.6            187.1             226.1
II             184.3        172.5           202.5              166.4            189.8             222.5
IV             193.0         181.6          213.0              175.2             198.4            228.4
1980           198.8         184.5          218.6              177.6            205.3             246.5
1193.1        180.1          201.5              175.7            200.0             27
-I             197.2         183.4          221.4              175.7             202.9            248.6
-II            197.8         182.4          218.4              175.1             204.8            249.6
1V             207.1         192.5          233.0              183.8            213.6             260.2
1981           213.5         197.0          239.5              188.3            220.0             277.7
-1            10-6  a       192.3          730. 2             TX                  =2ri            271.7
-I             213.4         196.7          244.5              186.9             219.9            279.5
III            218.6         199.7          249.1              189.7             225.7            295.0
IV             215.0         199.1          234.3              192.0            222.8             264.7
1982           206.5         193.9          212.6              190.1            213.5             237.9
I              219.9         202.9          228.8              197.5             228.9              i
II             213.4         200.1          231.8              193.6            218.9             264.1
III            201.8         197.6          202.2              184.7            210.4             230.8
IV             190.9         185.1          187.8              184.6             196.2            187.6
1983           190.0         180.8          168.8              183.2            198.9             177.9
I              191.4         180.8          177.5              181.5            200.3             190.2
II             194.7         187.0          180.3              188.4            202.3             184.0
III            188.5         177.2          158.3              181.0             199.4            175.0
IV             185.2         178.2          159.0              182.1             193.7            162.2
1984           200.2         185.5          174.1              187.8            213.2             193.7
I              198.5         186.9          161.6              192.0            210.1             181.7
II             198.4         183.7          175.7              185.4            211.0             194.3
III            200.0         180.5          178.4              180.9            215.4             207.8
IV             204.0         190.8          180.8              192.8            216.5             191.1
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Structure of Value Added to Kanutectu.lng sector
1975-1984
Ia Blilions of Meulcan Vegas at 1970 Priceg
1970     1974       1973      1976    1977       1978       1979       1980      1981      1982      1983    1964
Total                            105.1    140.9       148.1    156.0   161.0       176.6      195.5      206.6    224.3      211.8    202.0   231.4
rood Proceuulog, leverages
aed Tbbecco                           29.3     35.5       37.8      39.2    40.6       43.4       46.6       49.4      51.9      54.1      53.5    54.3
Textilem Clothing, bhoec,
teAther Products                      15.5     19.5       20.2      20.4    21.7       22.9       25.4       26.0     27.6       26.0      24.6    24.6
obd end wood produets                     3.6       4.5       4.6       5.0      5.4        5.9       6.5        7.0       7.2        7.1       5.9     6.0
Vtper and h per Producto                  5.7       7.1        7.2      6.0      6.3       6.6        9.7       10.8      11.3       11.4     10.7    11.4
Chemical  and   erh_mceutlcals           18.4     27.7       29.6      35.5    34.5      32.5        41.4       45.3      49.3       50.0     50.1    11.4
Una metallie  _a role                     6.1       8.0       8.7       9.2      9.0        9.9      10.9       13.8      12.4       11.9     10.6    11.6
lote motals                               5.9      6.2        6.2       6.4      8.8       10.6      11.4       11.6      12.2       11.2     10.4    11.6
Fgaluus.rng Product.                     I6.6     26.2       29.5      30.3    30.1        35.0      40.6       44.5      49.1      43.0      33.3    35.1
Others                                     .8       2.2       2.3       2.5      2.6        2.8       3.0        3.0       3.3        3.1      2.9      3.0
Ansul Growtb Rat, of  irneblml lduetrial SuhbeCoru
Total                             1971      1974       1975      1976     1977    1976        1979       1960    1961   1962   1963    1964
food frocemloag  boverag
and tobacco                           1.8      4.4        6.5       3.6     3.6        6.7        7.5       6.0    4.9      4.2    -0.9    1.4
Teatilas, Clothing, 8boo,
Leatbor Producto                       6.5      1.6        3.0       1.0     6.4        5.6       11.0       2.4    6.0      5.6    -5.6    -
Vood froducto (publishing)              -12.6      9.8        3.0       6.8      9.7       7.5       11.4       6.9    2.9    -0.5   -16.6    1.2
Paper Product.                         -12.0       7.6        0.6      12.1      3.2       6.6       10.2      11.2    4.4      1.3    -6.4    6.9
Chemicals, nrtoltuers,                    9.9      5.6        7.0       9.9      5.9       6.6       10.3       9.5    6.6      1.4      0.3    7.0
Pharmaceutieals
Ean-Netall Producto                      2.7      6.7        8.9       5.1   -12.4       10.1       10.4       8.8    4.7    -3.8   -10.9    9.0
Basie Notate                              0.6      11.1     -10.1       2.8      5.3      19.7        8.0       3.4    3.5    -6.8    -6.5   12.6
Knulneerlg froducto                                                                                              -
Kachinery  qutp eot (I_tolic)             2.1      11.3       4.3       2.9   -10.6       16.4       35.7       9.6   10.6   -12.6   -22.8    6.0
Others                                    4.3      0.4        7.1       8.2      3.7       7.6        8.0      -1.9   10.9    -4.7       -6.9   6.0
Kanuf.cturlng total                   3.9      6.a        5.0       5.0     3.5        9.8       10.6       7.2    7.0    -2.9    -793    4.7
_~~~~ _                                                                             - _ - @
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
June 1985



- 45  -                        ~~~~Annex  9
MEXICO                                  T 5
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
V                   D  1b            "         tm
wesem(Grmiw                               VI            6       .6        Wm       1- l1.1 :647 J
46   ,_ 211    WA %W                           MT . l E l            WA       7X&       WA
IL ?I*.     oAim-t                  MA<        I"_ SE3 t3                               .s sUt 
t-vAums   wwdd_ Ap                           (L7)         ow      I          C)       DOlW)
3. ano Clf                                    C- (M)    0                    (lZzI     C
2. VWM                                                      " _ ' X           CAJ 
IL  _      _W oil Prnu                                     iw 94      7M&       19-
E   w n  w m  b                     3  a_A                  a mE     2 13 A    7 g r a  al  7
P. _tgeof                                      IIt         131      I"A       13J OJ
16d ftOl} -J afPN               A6         ODU                              a       "
J. 80%                             370         ts     o    GS        iD t"  m 6           .7
,'-         L - son too.7 1d swo                                             nz(A4    trIz
E.Is   P-q                         114        SI             .       7".7     SW. saA
1.___ b2KSN goowa  1su  ot       P     .      W)         UN         (       1       CA.0
2. Me.  j6r _lia S bom            _2               _      t)       ZU"       h         "
3. comilm1 _11PA1110                         (MV l       (CI       t5t.     (1M2      (WA)
IL OS_ _sas                        ea D D                    3       NA        73A      7e
SWAM_1 &M SOME
PM         mg           tg,O    "W    "E    no      "
_ut  _I=&  _e              WA       .2     &A *2D9    -1. 2D          7.   2F.    4
N   osw_                    2.0     tJ      tJw          t7      6.7  -W    7.5   t9J
_4p. Pa" St_                 AA      L2  I.          J       7     " Jl.7  1"         9D
_        _lde  bid           9       7. r    IIt          Z:J3   61   -970   IL    OA
ramob--im                     -      34-3    2,d                  M?*t        TY7  9IL
m_s,m pkma-           7      &       110  JI              MI  tD3 tt.t  t 4 MA
Phow%o_'_l                    -  OJ9  t                  -   tS5 "J4D               4L9
111.111us _adoL                           Z4 .2    7     27  It        1.9   MA    3F.
DM ad a" ym                  7.7     1.9     5.5          LS    -J   7JA    MA>  II
_       _umsu                 -      13D     ?A           _      49   4.61   d.9   .9"
aledw~~ tO I     FIKI           22   D "             32    >0OA          W3     W
omi_we             _         1.      tt .2  _      _      t      IA Wf  Ja          -12 .7 
Source: Banco de Mex ico
r,r,'PI 2
June 1985



- 46 -                                               kmex 9
MEXICO                                           T 6
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
-                                          tsz_~~~~~~~Olie Elm)
1979      3970    1973   3973      _M       1U           132      19m3     3n6          1 .
0, PuIuUe Sm                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(10719.21) (13N&)  (2003.) (23.112) (391W.8)
*  a 2.2     :3    306.1          601.1    31.1    so"          3.0
(317.1)  (U4A)       (2k4)  (117.1)  (341.2)
*     _j.  ez_72.7   13                                              2113 4_0.2           231k. a   *i.s       17      a3.
(_3.3) _106.0)       (2263)   (00    (6.)
C    d M mI1111 t4dow                              293 0.           %23      11.3        51.1     227       29.9      0.4
(".9)   (&.a)        (g).   @1.9)   067)
I paw PI6-16 '304004t                            23.3   4.0       03.4    705.3         4fl.3    391.      W1.3       0.3
_u1a3*                                                    (26.)  (49.S)        (373.0)  (27.)  (33.0)
U    Ptn1i _   m .1.                                202.6   *.7      3sa1    37.2         00.    n3.3 -        3.s      sA
(71.2)   (6.0)       (03.)   (0 62)    20.3
,   i.m ~~~~~~~~~mag ~~~~100.2   1.4    602.1    07.2                        43.0    293.3    467.0        3.3
(120)  (10.0)    (Cl0lt)  (120.8)  (123J)
U    __s                                            Te10  12.9    I31.   (3733.0)        123.4    113.9   12.          12.1
(1171.0) (16.9"        690.1   (2.) (6e9"
* _21. _l             '3.2.                          3.s.    1.0     233.0    461.4       2.        31.2    31.3        3.6
54.9)  00a.0)    C(m9)   (11.9)  (302.)
Um.413.-11c UlmeysS.                            02.0   3.3      30.L    2112.2       137.0      01.9     72.6      0.6
Produc.                                                 {(32.3)  (313.)         (81.9)   (12.2)   (32.9)
.1  m Ml mini Prod.                              33.3 39.    3up0.   329.10            10.1    039.4   73.            6.3
(1130.0) (1291.7)     (03.3)  (230.1)  (457.9)
ano.g         o.                                     9.    1.6   _      .  _033           3.9    109."       2.         2.1
(303.)  (322)        (199.9)   (.1)   @91.2)
*.    ~    , _ _   _od                             2536.2  30.2    49*t.0  33472.1       100.    336.3   43U3 7        MA
(4230.7)   09.2)    (311.0) (2l0.9) 0633.8)
U 61w  t        .                                       7   0.3      16a.2    133.        7MS       1S6   *     9       ea
(361.s]  (t32.0)       (2.3)  C(t)    0.3)
3973      3     3to"                        197311  101    I3      too 1*46
i332.3   161096  3230.3                  23.4       21.7   -97   -34A        2367
r     n _33435SW.7   1'4    '33.                                               20.1       211.2   -3.3   -606      31.2
-  4In _4.3                             -         1e.0
6F PWIve" soe-                                                                 Pr-m
4.  fm2.  _o      . m_ Ts .                   :.6       7.1    3.0                  42.2       -7.9   -33.9  -22.?    -3.0
S.  IUes. C         t0002 -m
t__  _j                              1.3       5.0    5.4                  29.4   S 3.1   -33.1   -1.4   109.
C. _od me weld prubO.                        0.0       0.5    0.4                  32.    -   3.0   4e9        -.1    02
B.  Pam _ 3.04m. pula-     SIMMS.1          G*.        2.9    4.1                 20.         10.4   -22.1   -23.      29.2
U.   d _.2    sws..                          4.7        *.9    3.@                   3.3       17.0    31.7   -0.    w6.9
FP.  Pam, chmis                               .2        3.2    3.1                 43.3         *3 -2y.  -10.    21.0
o.  Cmlm1.                                   12.9       9.2    3.                   10.1     -30.6      -      -30.     3161
UI  llaMa NW  .2                              1.0       1.0    3.2                  23.7       ".       7      -4.3     2. M4
1.  St4b0.ute 604..1 p_duc                   1.1        3.0    O.2                  23.6       23.3 2J  1.9 4   0.3    73.
J.  Km    ate 111r_eu                        10.1   _c.4    0.2                     21.1      I3.    -31.7   -39.       73.
mm-hu    Sea_ .                          1.0       2.7    2.7                  27.2       300   -3L.9    41.3    35.
mosbamig, _a Uq.line                        -          1- 46.3  S33.6               23.3       3964   -3.9    33.2    31S
IL   s    sm                                 0.5       0.0    -                    27.4        31.     4 -0.4   -70.0    74.2
Ju Ue 1 f85
June 1985



- 47 -
MEXICI3                                   Annex  9
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT                                 T 7
SFLECTED NATIONAL WACE INDICES
(1971 - 100, period asvrage)
ACbS IN                      WAGES IN                 URBA
k*MWACTURDCG I/             CONSTRUCTION          NTNINUM R6CC            COST O0
NOmI"AL         REAL        NOMINAL       RZAL        NORMlAL    REAL            LIVING !/
1977           R6.6          101.R           R5.1        100.0         8R.1      103.5           R5.1
I              TRUO          -97.t7           3.0        104.0         RR.I      110.4           79.3
it             R2.2           93.6           84.0        100.7        RR.1       105.5           R3.4
ITI            R6.0           93.9           A4.7         97.4         RR.1      101.3           37.0
rv            101.1          111.9           RR.A         9R.3        RR.1        97.6           90.3
1973          100.0          100.0          100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0          100.0
1   90.*    ~    si5'T          96.7         102.1       100.0      105.0
11             95.6            97.6          99.3        101.3        100.0      102.0           93.0
rri             9.9           97.R          101.0         99.0       100.0        9M.0          102.0
TV            114.1          tO0.4          103.0         97.R       100.0       95.0           105.3
1979          i16.5           9R.3          119.1        100.3       116.R       93.3           118.2
1             104.0           93.3          IS5.6        103.6       116.3       104.7          111.6
IT            111.0           96.1          119.1        103.0       116.3       101.0          115.6
IIl           117.2           97.7          120.4        100.3       116.R        97.3          120.0
IV            133.6          106.3          121.3        9M.7        116.3        93.1          125.5
1930          142.9           95.3          143.7         96.2       137.5        92.4          149.3
I             1Z4.7           91..          142.6        104.2       137.3       100.5          136.8
11            133.7           92.5          142.6         9R.6       137.5       95.1           1"4.6
rIr           143.3           93.1          144.0         93.4       137.5       39.2           154.1
TV            169.          104.1          145.7         90.0       137.5       R4.9           161.9
1981          139.3           93.6          190.0         99.'       10.0       94.5           191.1
153R.5          90.5         186.9         106.3      10.0       102.9           175.0
II            IR1.5           97.8          IR.4        101.5        3RO.O      97.0           IR5.6
rIi           191.2           97.8          190.5         97.4       13O.O       92.1           195.5
rv            226.1          OR.4          194.4         93.7       130.0       R6.5           20R.1
19R2          298.1           9R.7          295.6         97.4       253.S       R3.5           303.6
1             222.3           95.7          25R.0        111.0       241.5      103.7           232.4
--I           290.4           10.4         297.5        111.0       241.5        90.1          267.9
III           313.5           97.1          29R.R         92.3       241.5        74.6          323.3
iv            365.R           93.4          327.9         R4.0       2R9.R        74.2          390.4
193          475.9           77.5          460.5         76.2       424.6       70.1           612.9
I             3R3.4            78,          427.7         R6.6       392.4        79.3          494.7
rr            437.5           76.1          437.5         76.1       403.5       70.0           575.2
IT}           49A.6            76.6         4R2.3         74.2       451.3       69.4           650.2
TV            5R1.0           79.2          494.4         67.7       451.3       61.7           731.6
19R4          734.4           71.9          710.3         70.4       654.7       64.9          1014.1
I             583.1           63.2          631.4         73.8       53R..5     6f.9            855.7
II            655.2           67.9          67R.7         70.2       615.0       63.7           965.4
Ill           773.7           72.9          765.6         72.2       707.7       66.7          1061.9
IV            925.4           73.6          765.6         65.3       707.7       60.4          1173.3
1935
r               -              -            767.2         71.0       920.5       67.6          1363.7
I/  Pre11lmry
2/ National radgx
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
June 1985



?EXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
P0hE'411 4B6fIs'iEs
(u'-rent balmn: in billions 31 P1121s
&OP  notes       Checiong                   ClecIinq                   Liquil                    fll of                 Iar0.niing
Year          EV      I currescy       aacouats          ni       accounts           112    :ateeg:            R       s avinj;           94    finoncial            Hi             i/        2         3         4         5
in public    Imatsonal                     Iforeipn               anstruaent,                instrseAots                  ailut                            6SW       59        SP9       COP       589
p06K        CurrKcty)                  curt iflcy I                                             (2)                         A                            II        (U1       !II        I        Il
2970         444.;           20.2           23.4         49.0           2.9         50.9          53.91       204.8          44.2        250.9                      1 U.5.`       11.0      22.3.    23.6       34.0      :4.*
toll         4114.0          21.3           31,3         53.1           1.1         34.3          63.6        tIle4          1.5         272.9                      i'I.9         Pill      22.2    214.2.      35.1      31.2 
1912         564.7           26.1           51.5         64.3           1. 1        66.4          15.7        2421.2         l.5         202.6 11                            1.4  il        1 1.1     25.2      35.9       1.91
1913         140.0           34.2           43.1         19.9           4.2         34.2          5t. 2       1&7.3          MI.T        211.2                      2:J1.2        11.A      12.2.    24.1       33.   133.5
1914        I3.19.           42.7           34.3         9'.5           1.5         202.0         59.6         190.6         32.         213.0                      2'13.0        :0.3      11.2      21.2      :0.3      30.s
1915        22(0.1           52.3          116.0        III's           4.0        122.3         101.1        210.C         1II.?        346.1                      3!16.1        10.1      11.1      2e.9      12.5      321.3
1916       1370.0            19.9           14.9        154.8          II.2        261.0          VA.         263.4         ;l:.1         41.4                      V5'          1.3       ti.l      19.2      231.1     23.1 
2913        VIVA.           114.1          145.5        210.3          13.4        215.1         12b.0        401.1         2483.         MCI)0          4.3        741.3         11.1      21.1      17.2      25.9      li.2
1il9       3067.3           149.1          191.         146.3,         221.2       318.1         2410.11      5419.2        399.2I       14433          21.4       4'3.1           1.7       9.3      i3.;      23.1    -21.5
1910        4276.!          294.7          216.5        441.2,         10.2        401.4         262.3        752.1         5!l.1       1311.1          32.        I'6-9          10.1      11.5      27.6      11.7      '2.9
2412l       5114.4          211.1          310.11       6122.4         42.6        653.2         33'.Q       14222?         9.1           6491.2 W, I P.4l                        11.4      21.2      1.1.      33.4      34.3
I4c2        9421.1          5')3.U         419.1        993.5          28.8      I202I2. i       161.0       2791..3       15?.0       :,313,3         2i.i        ,(a. ~         10.5      I(-.I129.1         31..4      253
Il3o       21141.1          161.1          124.5       2402.3          271.2      1429.5        22319.0      2663.4        2611L.0      5133.4         591.1       5,1A.I          I.2      3.3       25.6      32.2      14.6
14114 (p1  2141%.~         11111.6        1161l.2      2:0. 9          1111       23,22.2       3100.8       6:21. I       Wills3    3112.4           1044.5      5;r&.7           1.3       1.9      22.2      304.2     3:1.u
1: bllAnce: at the Aqyeqlate level,, the lecileal 6a, rot coinciCe wiith tilt balarct @1 'be totala( ~ it: coaponfirts is a result of rouolinnl figures.
III lith iaturtit of 21to 89 dsys.
121 11th ggUtirty of qo days or mor,
(31 CEIES, petticonds, commicil pdpets, b4an  acc..ptin.,,ideiainbo    ol     hrypi    biain   i  OO   iIOllhi9:cos
(p1 pfeliiinirp ligures
source: Banco de Mexico
LCP 12
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
ISIAL 1`14AWIICPj 7 THE IMit1163111 IN
cureng,t *aiqcuw IN 1:illisal of P4151
941*119 twoee1                        NotS of Nh'aca                        l,w.leoet 140                         Cowcaal laset
Ile.  :   ke..13        C. c. fpI         C    2 ill    hil  IN 1i,46       SeI c. U     kC. 0     kiWIp fi   lvs.6           hcW    k   hc.H $',14
tuurn, 1`u114n1s                                 alli0     56474       14237           If"4        m4u        414             is'        371t       EU2             flit       314        M
letweral                                        4704      12ve       Ism1             2441       341R        4127           2172        3"I        5416            :595       25531      17
ElAnlUied b 1* astrnests                       174       10229      1339             2441       345         4513            217        I775       14W            4.01        3I M       1743
film                                         25041       323        4411            if!5       :w7          I2              is         547        In!             lei         41        14
Crdat                                         4147       74ff      11364             133        464         11111          7627       m          wi              IIIII      :ssi4      Iall
blgiumt pitielle                               241        442        51              ...        ...         ...              14         14         a               i   31    64         USm
Ritmus Imtefhsnb opeastless                    All        in         912             ..          ...        ...             175        356        212              is         1          41
Imeaii  E.terve  ilpmucSe                       94        24!        :d'              Is          Ti          I               4         if         44              U3        76:        mg
ClassIfIed hi ik.ttstivolI sectors             4764      5672       151W             2445        349        4517            25172      711l        496           2it"        316        11762
To figdiedl latntfUiMti                        194        Na2        432             495        251         "I              Ill        19         i9                         Its59      *
owEat usailaiutas                             ...        ...        ...             34         121         lai              II         of        554              "I        :46        19I5
11Isisqmeot hush                            ...        ...        ..                2          73        lit..                       . ...                      71        1I)        59
Emweeall hu                                   ..        ..          .              224         12         $13               I         9          I               .          . 
Other fgsaeci.l tatereedllesi                 I;1        39i       4I2               9          113        U19              U         16         53I 
of i.e pIll   su terw                        179        26:       :11                          I Li       al               ;I                                     I          i         :
Ift tefprvatefuter                            Il         .4         43             ...         ...        ...               I          I                          I          !         3
to g.f5gis(jj5  eMisr$                        144        96116     14fl6            2641       3152        4112           2:o         3171       o22             It"                   111111
Wubit wate                                   4913       7447      too6             761$9       35701      lili            ml9        11211      4U               7423      lift       26
rFederal gnereml                           3462        13'4       129             lo3p       H11l        dill            944        114        VA2fr   1                    `3 s0     9
11111                                        47        UZ1         U               52.        Ill         25               1         14         24              741        71         31
PelvisEms                                     4          2          1             ...        ...         ...                          I          1..I
CredIt and ether vwlIs                    3411       1114        753             2ml        1647       hI4              "1      I 1           7 22411         4117        31       1111
Federl lestridt lewurnut                     lit        725        Ill             ...        ...         ...             IN                    i7l              to          I          I
Utile aed mnicapal guwerealt                  If         71       I1               ..   ...         ...                    1          17         is              1I                    is 1
k.i:sltSsss ad fir"5                        5246       Il973      4192                                                              IS". ..551 19  INS          7                  .511M
private Eider                                1541       2215       421                3           6          1              4         63         6us            12'        579        31141
firms                                       9ll        1371       3197             ..          ..         ..              1          224        46              19        III?       lop
l.divI*asls                                 192        642        lift               2          4                        IN4         m2         U              414        422        1314
kisederised  fleandeg                           30         67        US              .           ...        ...               I          I           3             .:9        a1        I
hiteul                                            it        24          K2                          Zs         a                4          to         44             As        W.          3
Fisanald  er;dallitilus                          is        264         I1l              5          21         31               1         It         31              47         lit       S
.-..-                                                                                                                                 .    .. ..-      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1..  .  .
Li klalsaes of dilyllite level$ my lot cifiM:Ee mith the *ttil of its caepaeesits as a ressit of re-a~da-q !llgvs.
Ill [a the hsAl ag system, lsterhush eprtaesm er~ve uclideil. At huh levelC, m,,ratasvs prni~tcid Sftuus it, tifef types if Isis arte CttiN.
Hli  Ilieerdtims vith bile to the iCcNtmt9 stites of the lisle.'S
sources Banco de Mdexico
LCP12
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
fall 14   SysCar  kal   of1mm  iic M11111K;a, *wci                                                                       k
wc.8 0    lc. 1,   kc. 4  1p1    kc.I r.            c. I    he. 34 fp let.3r2     kc. 13   It..  4 10                on k   '.   la 2       Pa..  K Is
FIMIIEII   It. ICTICIAL CL441(1                   U69        162I1       P1`1            113         3          42251            pi          R's1      160'              11        1917s       In
lalirul                                          Wl           Ifs      "M1              1124       :1fs         4               w          Its:       a14t            *:9 t                  un
Classified k, issireubte                        26t  ill         91      16"           132         314        1121      11    "P          1132       It"4             71         11916      El
V.1mws                                         214        32113       tell            UN         2441        Msh               II         1I         Ill             lb.        247,        34)
R.4,ncs.mt Wtfolao                              HI I       :15         i30             ...         ...        ..               32          im         11i            141         ap         u
1w:na     liwtw1  opwat:nu33                               496         739             ...         ...        ...             1I           ii        246                           4         1
Piuoi: C.terior l:uancssq                                     1          5              .   ...               ...                I                      3*II
Cla1041 s    l id i, tiatilwit mlotos           3491       511tI       95l6            I12         h44 M      4251             19          12         34116                      MO4        323
In fltaucmgl latgoradigriws                     11         13          7               All         1          373              3          O          Its              14        Ill         146
credit asotItuttoas                             .          ..         ...              It          14        IV'              35          61        It,              19         96         1
Iuulqpuat liii..                                          .          ...              It        4a          1.71             .          ..         ..               N1         30          6I
Cm.tr:Il Iaak                                ...                     ...              21          13         31                                                    ...        ...         ..
Itw   Lsocial iatornudiarluu                   93 122 93                                                      29              33          it         12              1I           3         II
of   hp6lIo  laetr                          I27         lii         2'                        1I7U                          22           6          II                          3
IN4 tIlmprlakt  uctwr                          If         1!          .Z             ...        ...         ...                           II134                                            U
to s.M*llei28 ii   Waver                      3576        !6         P126             Ill,        15         'Al)             142       Il"S        141             Ill         '6         !
PhbliC sKcdr                                 ::           6:         3S               eP        7Z           621                        ON6         940             1.9        173         72
hdor          "Wmt 3oa~tIi                              26         4112             51l        2921        107n              66         to          i6s(                                  196
Putruw,E,                                     4           2           5             ...        ...         ...               a           I                        ..I
Ilk                                         ...           I         36..                        . ...                      ...          I                          ..S                    2
Cremit m4Wad @41   V41141                  1717        2744       4313            169         2'7        34'1                                      26                                     2
Fulorl  litirlic  kvoruut                       I          1         Il..                       ...         ...              .3          16        I71I 
slat.   a ii iu.ctp,I poors tos               49          6         121*.                        .          ...              44         II          II               5         Is         U
brgomhmti', aid lire,                        31          129        912              ...        ...         ...             so         461         62               36         76        21
Private  octyr                               126         I0           14                                                      t          e                            19ti    ii          o
Uaee                                         670        1616                                                                 el3..  .  ..6  14      4121                       1         1
toElvuuI.                        5~~~~~~~~$16  00       1621               2                                     1           2 In6                     4U          69        12m
~~bK1vItod Eteaiclsq  :9  63        III             ...         ...        ...                1         -~       ~~~ ~            ~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~2 f. ~U itI
FImaiCII  IorpdOltiatlo                                        4          4             ...         ...        ...                I          I           3                          .I
In-firs.1claI wp.ssgatiuw                          I           3          4             ...         ...        ...             ...         ...         .3I
II hta'cts of dsil9itb  towels say not :0i.1cift ustI tho total of its ccolmt  di a r1owt el rudigo figown.
Ill le the haEinfl  vystwd, laterhgav  aewatie'; art ogcloced. At )isI levfls, IPI,atbim  ra 11ce  161.0  thk  taw  tWo, of Inta  ofe glit'4.
(p) preli'aary lzgmras
..  b  CI.;,
Sources lanco do Mexico
LCPI 2
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Cerreit  fhlaKeg  I  bii  Olieni iI gu
ISI0l    System11                      pllm of tutut                          kuviqes   [at                          riiaffcuil teel
kc. 32   Int. 133   get. It6(p)   Dec. 62   N:. 13   htc. 14(lot 3g. 3t'   kc. 33   hee. lu(pi    he.  .,2  Iti. I?   h.c. H  ip,
IIUCIKS  IN rpI'r*   01ICBAnE                   34157       l51         tlt              433         II?        sit            iii!        2497       373              'ti        it?!       fli,
Imtwgeal                                         soi7       4-?%        7?0             itil        Ito        2               :?tt       Zag6       :,q4              r          It 11,     147
CIa,islIed by jomtrwmet;                        H41?       IC6         Vil0             All         354         W              .io        we61        :s,z             n         l:7:        Iu:1
Value                                            43         714        219                                                      It~ 0.5    10if                                   i
Credit                            ~~~~~~~~~              ~~~~3211  iai',  60P  LIS     :io         27              n          16          e                '         1         1
Radascumt portlcia                              6           71        al              ..           ..                           4         It          :z                                   (39II
Mimil  Itierbmnl OWat'IsOftI                          2      6.16      lii             ...         ...         ...              19         21          36:                                     3
Riati,  iswwa r  iinvattoq                       us        :11          So              a:.         is          :c               !         1           U1             .A         III        :15
CimlAteffd by imuialiqi;geal no rse             HI?1       lEO1        Ito.)            6I          :9;        277             Il'S        WI3       715               fit       I43        6912
Credit  imitmiatci,                           ...        ...         ...                                                                 Is 1  15    12              t07' 
ltiqevo eg  t  ell                           I.           .           .                            a          I               .   ...         .     ..               8                     K :
Coecrimal bail..                                         ..           .              211          z'         :c7                         :s          i              ...        ...        ..
tBIAS  fimamcaal arturu4iariegN                            S           I               .           ..        ..5                                      4                  
Sfitse pabiac  eec'er                          17         1          III..   ...                      ...                    55          92        IN                            I          it
E1lite private  ictoer                          3           3          I              .           .         ...             ...         ...         ..31                                    I
Ta sufUavclal  isuln;              :~~~~~1,116  1319t     3614             62          357         249            1710       757         3574lCI                                 1
Petit: tctder                                 7691       19l         344              1t2         T'         2.49           ii??        2434       340i             HU         fll        lip.0
fedeal g7vfr 'PUt                            1362      21:70        0I442                        ?51        79's            1!         1315       2112              403        0I         flU
Credit and utker valet;                      ITS!       P,Iu        1114             lul         :r         A'              P1         lID        2112              #1         CI1        '21
Fedeal  istOrct oevseuget                    Io?        lit           2             ...         ..          ..9                        147        ...              IC           I           2
Stats aid nnl:cipal qeverietot                 I9           7          a             ,.          ..         ..I                           7           I               3        ...        ..
Srpuiulatases I'l  arem                       l76       1447        IIIK'            ..          ...        ...             All,        145      1CII               1II        3.'        719
Privste lacter                                 216        387         477             ...         ...        ...               St         9!         13                         1 44        7331
firu                                          243        335         pg1                                                     I's.. ..    :*         I:             :s           7         us
ledIdhal;1                                    Is          I;          :2             ...        ...         ...               3           4         23              I:.I 
hmw1ctweeed4 floasuccl                                        4                        ...         ... ....9                                            s               i 
".tereaI                                                     I'l3,        1134             Is         I3          3                1          17         I1              aS         ill        i:                  1
rleiioci   l viiatitiu                           44        V2(         306               1I         211         3                4          9          36              41         1t.7       211
beelII4aKciiI srgamaateeug                        to          36         ft             ...         ...         ...                          I           I              if         :9          41
at flaclmee of igg'qeLvq levels say eat cdlecide viii tie tlull of its coqeevte i aI vomit It ummdirq (6pme.
wi to 6o4 bariUm; %-steel intortai qwetatim are evilufti. At intau kIeIe, qeratalne pr#tCiimsO ttem WI 11ee ipof 110barts NeOW.e
ill Iiabwatioe nWI' ties in ibm uctmetuug elates of t%e Sant.
pa prellhleery 555ame
.Nstubaiqe
a'uras: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
June 1985



BIEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
lI? 1S1at  l        l   ite A   wni. lmi   to l      Nw1FAL auf ,n.
I000  ,a an            UN 0"MCl&L UN$
elimees la 1I11111i of poses its of IlCeebt II of each yeat
k- iez  191W                           Dmnt 1960 _Deteeri ildi
?hIIcend Private Sector                  ote,    hlelo_t           =rcals1      l.t2.l   DVet.i*t   C ercIja          Tota81   flevoelofmt   Coaterel
"ata,        Ink*                      sakei        leaks                    loAms        lIAmb
OtIAL (I411)           4 1911.4              41S.9         S S          . 312.S     549. 1        11..       2.029.R      922.1        1.101.,
I.     OtlIlhTIOaS, FILMS AIMi           613.1      1S1.          S01.6       1,166.6      61.9.9        114.4    I.1..5         %5.1        1,01.9.6
1.lviM,4LS
,  IgrIaltire, W"tIOl,
Foree,t, ai4 pIehtml        120.1        63.1          ".S         192.3       111.1          W0.A       241.1       121.6          120.1
a) Agtleltwre                  ISO.?       51.1          51.0        1l.?       106.$          21.2        216.5      109.4         010.3
b) Ilaelg                       5.2         1.2           7.n           6.1        6.6           L.S         14.0        N.1            1.Z
.1 Others                       4.          2.11 1.5 S.1)                          2.1 ).A                    9.1 .5                   1.1
3.  idselty                      335.? I    ISM           111.5        441.1       2n1.1         264.3        6A9.1I      MA*           311.1
A. 14fly ledustry               10.9       19.           11.0         101."       91.1          11.1        111.1       1.9.1          29.)
0  petroleum                16.?         9.0             6           M12       21.1           9.9        6h6.2       1.1.4          21.6
b) glactulIe Lo.rjf         S.2         50.6           1.4         11. .       iLl            1.2       1126         MA19.1          2.9
I.  etsefoetaetwlo   i duatry   201.9      610.         121.1         266.0       111 .        17191        166.2       119.1         261.1
a*)Nas  teri               11.1                          4        17.0  9.  I   .           126.1       641.1         1.9.t        111.1
*IUAuiIe6li6t miseual
ptodutlt                  6.4        0.9           5.5          93.          1.2           B.)        14.0         1.7           12.1
.2 ree d UStee.
" Ir   prede t1.1.6                  26.1.         19.2         61..        14.9          16.5       102.6        63.1           II.5
atea,rr sl *qteIp t    11.6           2.1          II.S         19.&         31.          16.1        2.1          6.1           214.0
C. ceetruirilin Industry        6.9        I6i.s         60.6          1O.S        16.6        S1.6         106.1       21.6           60.1
S.      tam (social ceaesI         29.9        11.1          16.6          15.        62.6          23.1         46.1        11.1          35.4
t1 _  ..... Ser,,,,. gad  Other  .)O5  ,
a) n^e1"Z1 tr r              11.5*      21.6           2.1         51.1         10.1                      20.1 )..2                 22.5
OI Csib_  tle 1"il"$           s0.1         -,           tZ0.6          0.3        -             0.1         0.S         -              0.5
Seresevaosel serv6rae        1.          1.9           2.0           5.1        2.0           1.5         6.2         2.9            5.1
I)  ametie lakmhs     ~       10.6        12.6,         MI.          16.1        11.9         26.6         11.6        14.9           14.5
a) Moral" ServIe.e             1.6.1       44.1           1.)          51.1       50.7           2.6         52.9       49.1            1.1
I)other Pleenclat
Intermediaries              92.s        I5.          62.0         131.4        11.2         121.2       Uil.S        22.2          161..1
1. Cam e                          140.9         1.6         116.2         210.6        6.6         204.2        311.6        9.1          104*
it.    ijmmm,                            116.1       96.1          A19          141.1       119.6         1.9         144.1       326..           31.9
I.  retarel                       104.9        61.1          17.1         1S.6       106.0          19.9        314.2      101.4           12.1
2. state end Wimlelpal              31.2        6.1           4.1          I.6        11.1           6.1         10.1        U1.,           5A.2
111.  1IWICIUC  ISSLVtCU                 0I.1       40.9          19.6         129.1       I06.0         21.6        110.%       146.6           II1. 
I.  Se"e4temet waite                66.9       44.9                       106.0      106.0           -          11.6.1     11.6.            - 
2. commtIeil Rube                   19.6                       .1.6                    -            2.1.6        11.6         * 
Me3 lipAI.. MY set ;R eP Piecl             e l T-to wuidlsig.
Source:  Banco  de Hexico
LCPI2
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
emiln? iniim  of matmes,  otUlem           10 3Toll 3lw IP . Wl,lvW.
33,101m  mDtUwT  ,.e cl^.i               s11
6416.. 1. h1111..0 of rFe.$ so Io,f f.3. 33 Is ofve   ,...
I.11,     IWI                           4 .61   13 e            I1                       I _
66,40           24..                      34.6.         6..                      6 .           34.6 .1
1.      rJAlZu4Iu12, 31    AI M          .4,        1,113.6      I.6.9         464a6       1.?3.1        1,611.s      3,1.0       1,10.          6*16.6
65 64,,.gI.e                  31"1.6      1,1.1         I 3.0         411.0       20.1          110.6        111.0       1a11.          604.6
hI 61.1cm        rihia        IPA.1        66.           S11,1         11.6        4.6.6                   1.16.1         116.6           1
so 0.6.,.                         4 11.06                   1              .1          .          116,4 *rn..              Il..           9".1
1.  ladweIry                      64J1.       361.          "6.m,a.1                133.             la.&,     3,63I.5     21,6.0           %.9)I.
ii Pi,.I.in                   16.1         114,6          641.         34.1.      134.3           .134.,      344.0      I64.4          13.I
*,    aI.w 1g,g  F                 .1      310.0           s1.         9,16.    lm,5              33.4      1,16.1       411.n           141.
A.    ?,. t. l  . " of            M.          1.6         6   M. 4,    1l0a0.,      314 .6        10 ,.      1.,6   .1.   41 1.         1,  0.1
.3 vl.1tw                   )"I .6 349.6              11ll.11 511.1 61. Il.                    60.4        41.1W.      so.&.           MS.%
61 l1efigir FAI1             W11 3.3     611.11         11.u           6.31        6.1          62.3        U4.        "1.1            M2.0
.1  l. i.s.4  114.1,                     292.*  111Z         t      *U ,.                      110       1 6           W    . I         #, .
. 414    t5.1                          1.S           Ml.9        1.1          1.            *0.1 4      2. t          1.4          11.0
"sees ftedare            Il.&         hp.&          *X.9         142.9        p6.4         1e .1        114.4       1SI            116.6
*} Iwl tteqrl od
. .etatest I4ue.r e       61.1         6.0           1.0         16.1         11.1         13.1         115.9        51.1           91.4
C. CIestlelia 14.61f,           111.0        )).           ".9          14S.1        11.e         14.2         EAS.    1   1,.            1".0
Noa.    l 1"  oa c1^1 f_#es        60.1         06.0         *X.0         164.1        IS.%         ISM.         ISA          MI            )".A 
6,  Wleltq  a"4 066et               A6h.        343.1,         61.0       Idt",n         16.0 6n 1.1             1,816.1       330.5        1,e.S                                                      .lI
.3 Tre...s.I                   103.         1194.         )1.6        2SAVO        210.1          51.1        1.          333.1           10.6
bl C1c41.e u                      1.1        11.            3.1          10.0                      11.9        10.9         6.1k           0.3
go Cimemm _d stbf
be.ee.l1.1 vlevneg            4.6         1.3           6.1           6.           .1           6.1*         1.1         4.6           11.6
3 _nilst I4h116                  41.1        14.0         063.1        165.6        913.1        114.3         Me,6       111.,          113.0
1` 6.q4I   luivI...             PA.)        61.1            1.6         1164.0 e      4           11.1,       163.1         56.A         126.1
f3 0b10t 31_.1161                                                                                                            E.
3.lermdIavlea               310.1       6Alj          161.01        111.6        9             1.3         111.A        Ill.,          15.6
IS T4tIm                                                    .           60.3          1.6         34.6         63.1          0.1          AA.6
1i ".r           *                -          -             *            1.1          10.6         1.0         116.                       113.1
Ii 1310  61_, 111*-               -                                    103.1         36.4        11.1          303.    t 61.0            160.9 
S.  C~V1                            311.         36.1           1.9        *1111.0       1.3          'St.1      1,611.1        32.6          611.6
ow l 11?;T                               1,60.9    1,111.4          611.1       1.311,3    1.616,1          666.0      3,136.3    1.611.0           A.a
I.  344.l01                       1,141.4    1.111.1          614.1       1,11.4    1.111.1           611.1     ,166".0    1,341.6            ON.I
,.  lists f.4  "eIpal   "         '    .         11.1          13.9          36.'        14.4                1      24.3       64.'      "      1.4'
Ill.  FINANCIAL 63C1m                     W11.3       161.1          11.5         61.1        101.4          16.6        163.1       3-0.6           ".G
1.  hv.I..t1  E_ie                 143.1       13.1            *           10.9        30.4            -          51.        S31.6
1.  Cev.16l 1.k                      11.5                     13.3           A.6         -6.6                      3.6          -              10.6
Sourcal Banco de H'tico
LCPI2
June 1985



HEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
tQOtL L1.611111.111H u mE gamin astir
bvrent halacss  in tallagmof.  iu
3M'mlJnmPt I Euuegt.101110pilogIti., luCPwtu. I
hsltu   l yst.                       Seal of 1IeRICO               hrugtcpsgt liami                  (neoritat Pnts                      foli II Is of total            (n    inv lt 1mst  is I of total
Itm.............. ......t.....................                                                                                 .............                      ........m..... .......    ........
On.61?  mc.6 lU E hh.C               c.602 kc,13  Ir..1t4   Wm.12 kcI1m                       :I 4 kcI3  BrIURhell   tw.61         I h:.. hc.t  If..)  SU $K.of                   C.    PR t11   etH
Ceqeetiessa,e                           3241       51234     67lu           537        7244      11I?         I'l!       Its        314         lIB,  I   r9?         Ill?,         ..,g       45.12  lIl              1020       9IT"        ltiY
C1ilimtAt G.Ieto                       3241      5274       173          1371        724      II??           It?       SN         WI4         24th      1174       174?          irs0      IOU.       190.          190.6       11. c1 0INS
Knotary lIsb~Iatses                   1027      WY4        23il          537       1124       fill.          21         79         is          449        69a      12I27.  11.91 15.1   .1                           3.2         22.2        21.5
lsot motesnj  circulationu             1   I     n9       t1ll          Ill        UR7      213            ...        ...       ...           ...       ...        ..             .0        6.0        0.6           9.5         1.0         11.11
Coasirns   caru-latiom                 21         35        17           24         3!         51          *.  ...         ...         ...         ...        ...                (.0        0.5        6.0           0.4         0.4         0.1
hnfl:mq ac:a'inits im                                                                                                                                         .                  tO0        0.0        9.6.          1.6         0.6         0.6
matin4al c'arrsicy                 40         7a's     1119           ..         ..        ..              1        2!         1!          Ii!        191       110W          17.7       15.9      tI.)           II.        14.1        tE31
lavim                                 2356      SlIt       lilt           ...        ...       ...          103        s40        112        2P47        3401      5177'          3.5    .4   1I 54.                 77.9        910.41     16.1
Liplid                                 451       $54        II1           ..   ...        ...                to?       :I;        212          ,41        la:       512           ILS       12.1        9.           13.1        11.1         6.7                            4R!
tm-lsqnai                              6194     7111       5991           ...       ...        ...           114       u4s        120         1790h      2019      V::'          60.        74.2      1H.!           12.6        9.1        7th6 
of I mutt                             3Su       727       3213           .          . ...                    25        76        2'4          332l       143      i'lI           t:.9      21.7       42.6          11.1        14.1        39.2
II I smuhi                            1413     1521       2968          ...        ...        ...           40        150        ml           Ill:     iil7         l           24.1       31.4       27.1          22.?         11.        25.
of 11mouth%                           06        fitY       391.t                ...      ...                55         75         3           451        714                     : i.e     16.1        51.           IA.        lId.         4.7
ofYmNatal                             59        171         10          ...        ..          ..2                     ii                      5'        1371        46           2.!.      3.5        0.4           203.1                   0.6
6f112  MINI                           29I         21        13          ..   ...              .              7          *         1.9         110         III        2.3          7.1       0.5        9.9           1.4.5                   0.1
of II mmths                             11         4          I          .   ...              ..2                       I4                                 3                     '.2        (.2         .0                 0.2    .           .0
Of924 matIs                            42       211         II          ...        ...        ...            1          3          I           34        22          it-          2.1       0.1        r'.           1.6         0.!         0.2
of  *rm  ~hi, 24 multhi               4s         72,       lP           ,...       ...        ...           II         41         so           31         1t        I1            1.4       1.         1.4           1.4         2.5         IJ3
Ninmes  Inttnrbut  qeratness             371        so         17          ...        ...       ....                     ..         ....                    ..          .0%.1                  0 .0      -.0           6.1.        6.5         6.5
Nines:  atmtei  qopratilm                75        104        239          ...        ...       ,                       "I         "I            79        1013       U3            2.'I       2.3        2.1           2.5         2.1         I.?
Sources Uknco do tMexico
LCPI12
June 1985



- 55 -
10                                             Annex 9
T  14
nDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
SIIIURY OF OncOLIDATED PtULIC SECTOR FINuICIX OPERATIONS
(firmus acuU1*tmi in Decwui  in billims of pew)
9m       l        1        19"1     1912     191      1     (p
Total Inme                                  55.9   804.4  1219.5  1613.3  2113.5  5395.0   942.0
dgetary Iacom                                554.1   751.2  1155.6   152.9   29".!  5741.3  9140.9
Federal 6ovnrnmnt                            303.8    412 8     33.9    35.3   153.0  3111.2  4942.6
Controlled Organizations & Firms             '34.1    461.2   762.2   1023.6  1971.0  4434.3  A12.1
Piin                                       106.1    172.6   357.4   448.5   968.0  2544.8  3776.6
Otkers                                     228.0   289.5   404.8   575.1   1003.0  1999.5  3115.5
Compensated Operations (-I                  83.3   123.7   290.4   429.0   803.5   1174.2  2693.8
Ircau in Sectors outside the Ibdget          54.3    70.3    93.1   122.8    170.8   295.6    m.3
Comeonsted Operations 1-1                   12.5    17.1    29.2    37.2    54.8   141.9   254.2
Total Expuditurn                             724.6  98.9  1516.2   212.0  4342.5  732.8  11192.9
-udgetary Expnditures                        675.5   919.2  1410.5  '.256.6  4073.3  7038   10692.0
Federal 6ovwrnmt                             370.9   514.3   817.5  133'.1   2702.?  4599.3   664.8
Controlled Organizations & Firms             389.4   527.6   883.4   1350.5  2179.1   4'13.7  6721.0
Peex                                       130.9   :10.0   420.7    672.7  1102.7  2216.4  3337.1
Others                                     249.5    317.5   462.7    577.8  10.'6.4  20Q7.3  3383.9
Compsnated Operations 1-I                   RM.      123.7   290.4    29.0   000.5   174.42  269.6
Expenditures in Sectors outside the Budget    11.6    87.9   134.9    192.6   319.0   423.?   745.1
AWISA, TLX, STE & ODF 1:                      59.S    79.0   110.4   164.9   224.1   330.3   59?.4
Eztra-hudgetary Deficit                     2.0       0.8    24.6    27.'    9.6    93.6   147.7
Loepensated 3peraticus 1-;                  12.5     17.1     Mr2      I7.2    54.8    1 4.Y   254.2
Econoeir Daficit                             128.7   :'.c 5   2:.7    79.5  152.0   1425.8   M7'2.9
Budgazary Oefici:                            121.4    : 67.   254.9    7:6.7  1371.8 .29'.5 :5l.1
Federal Goewrnment                           67.1   101.5   133.7   399.8  1170.7   1418.1  1722.2
Ooctrolled Organizations & Firmn             54.3    65.5   121.2   326.9    209.1  -120.6  -171.1
Pemx                                        32.9    37.5    63.3   244.2   134.7  -32.4  -1'39.5
Others                                      21.5    28.0    57.9   102.7    73.4    207.8   268.4
Deficit in Sectors outside the Budget         7.3    17.5    41.8    69.8   147.9    129.3   211.8
Financial Intermediary                       2'.4     41.e     43.3    59.1   128.5    95.0    404.3
Financial Deficit                           1'6.1    2 6.1   340.0   865.6  1655.5   1520.8   21i7.2
----------------- - ---- - -- - - - - - -- - ------_                                  - 
Source: Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
1 llith the iritent of comparing 1983 information with what is actually published in 1994,
here AM  was considered within the  udgetary Sector.
1-) Negative sign signifies a surplus.
ip) prcliminary figures
.CPI21985



micO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
A-LOCATION or I FEDERAL GOVERlNENT'S INTERNAL KBT
(current balances in billions of piuis)
__....................... _._.... . .__.... _.......... ...... ..........__.. _. . ___. _........................... _... _............ .......................__. ._.________._____............................... _._._ -.____.__.   --------
Ledera:iar Treaiury Certificatus  1/                                                             Petrrubuws                          kit
......................... ....... .............. .. . .. . .. ........ ............ -.. .--**-------**--*.............I........................................ *-- ----  -_--_----- 
Years        Global                                 Creait :nsuitut&cas                                    0ion-banking Private Sector                    Credit 1rstitetiomn                               tnice
End          Debt           Total      ------------          -----------------    Mon-bankiAg  ------r------ ------------    ta.t  ----------------------  'ta uin
Wildnces      Position                          Bant                                           Public                              Fires                                                     Private          Mlic
cf       DeteloFpeot    ouearcia1             Sector             Stock            and                   Dhvelopeut   Comrcial              kctwr 21           0dt
Mexico           Ednk           Ed-it                             Exchange    inoividuals 2/                    Dank           teat
..................................................................................................................................................
1977              277.0                             --               -*              ---               ---              --               --         2.0             0.1            0.1               1.3        271.0
1979              340. 4               .7         -0.5               0. 4           0.4                0.1               i.               . 1       3.3             0.4            0.1               2.4         34.4
1979              464.2             24.5 '.9                         (.3            0.1                9.7              0.2              7.3        8.1             0.4              i.              3.1       431.0
:990              18.0             54.3          15.6               0.5             0.4              10.2              0.7             24.9       13.7             0.3              i.              3.4       550.0
1q8;              948.3             Ct.5          12.9               2.3           24.0               14.9              0.7             41.1       11.9             0.4              1.            11.5          Y.Y
1982             2448.5            321.4        -11.8                3.0           74.4               31.1              1.2           221.5       20.S              1.2                            29. 1t.7   2106.2
1993            3377.1             420.5        110.7              2,.3            70.9              72.7               0.9           335.4       31.2             2.2             3.3             9.4        2725.4
1784   :        470Q.9            ?14.&          25.o              24.0            44.6              47.0              0.8            423.2       70.0              1.2           45.0            '12.0       3    .3
.... .... .. ................. ............................... ............... ........ ...... . . ........ ..... ................ .... ...................................................................___ 
Sourcet Lank of Mexico Eccneaic Indicators
I/ Escludes depcsits cads by the Sant. of Mexico to the Federal 6Govrrunet for the acqjisitior. of Cetes ior eunetary regulation.
2/ Current value estisated at Frice discouAt rate. lrcludes fareiq! resLdents.
p/ prelilinary figures
i. Ir,siqnificant
- - no change
LCPI2
June 1985



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
('iI r e  of pu ci
........... .............. . .... ....... .........................  ....................... .....  ...........  .............. ..........................  ...... .....                                   ..... ...... ........ .. ... .. ........................... ..... ................. ...
Capital  @ "rla                 t                                                                                                   fl511   laie
.............. ................... .....................,, . .. .,,. .. .... ........ .       ,          ,............ .............                                      ................ .................... ........................_.
Variablelincest                                                              r,.ls itAC.
st----    -----4-11                  *1- --w4e@ e*----@-----s-s---@                                                                           -       tt           7tt                         w st             I             s              *S
IN  ......T.t.a...Ta..'h1littatil                                                                                                                                                                 Cgemv lknacal"pp  liii          Patou
S'eSl ~         ~          team;    iaca    tyq                              vqa              11            otis               u                                      C!tn    *Paga    aid   Bccqtacn                                         lotal
h?tIa7        lidntnial                                          tmdi           Ils             ilit       Part  Ct. Cott.
......................................................................................... ........ ........................................... . ............ ....   ........................ ...... . ... .... .............. ....
3916         5412.1           21f71.I       l1O1S.2           tV.A.1          t917.5       U251.I             71).: 2         19.1             I.73I            -       7:io,t .        I         '.:';1 9- .--                                    ---       iu1.        II46I. l
If"        l2331.9            71134.0      19 46,9           41!29.'         MM              WU2. 3         ;0',-          It3:32.1         us              *'.      3@40.4   5i2721  .3 WOA.4                       ...        ..               ..4                   3131.            U
.111        II?1?.?    45.0'5J              741i5,.a           64.I               ...           .         .. ... S ... -*-,5  .-.                                                 lixtI.    ;1'U ..u..t                          --- 1-                    uist1:.e    c I2!.1
11I         I?"fl2.7         11171t.4    lOt247.22                                 *-            *-.t           ...               ...        1IZtI            --.      111.0Z.4    :143.1    ;::p1.!              1               1                --*    3M 9L4if 11"1t.2
I'l          IN.             372.4 A      4611.1             4!IC.t              ...                                                      IeIS2.t9                  I ti e.:    ivyex.t   t?1:13.t             i:zeit I       t?.i                -.    2117W9   23Sl14:t.:
3e1          1242.3          Ii'2m.s       Ic45it.i          4u441.a                -                                                       I*-  9I3 .9       *-.    2IU5.2          r1is.1  5321,28.5           Su  .s                           -         :    I  IIW.W.I
1I          11487.1         3513Y1.@      P1mie1.:  I                             *IO. I  --                                      ...       M      .7-)Ij   2193,7.0    4311211.6   164'POn.' I3715.3.3          MUM              M.          31!2           1fl114nm s.
................................................... .... ...... .............................. ...................................... .........
urcet : ii lReitani it VaIe' S.3. do C.V.
LCPI2
June 1985



- 58 -
mEXCO                                               Anmnex 9
T 17
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
PUBLIC  OFR
lX.illionS at pV;Vo;1
Capital Market                            Noney Market
--------------   ---------------------                        ~~~Total
Vear       Assets  Obligationi   PetrabOnds      BIBs    CETES   Co3mercia'    Bank              Awaont
Ppcer    cceptinra;         Isiued
!97          4.            2 8                    2.0 .    86.26                                    5.1
179          2..                        7.0              196.4                  -     -          :7.7
1980          0.6           1.6          5.0      --    24.5             1.3           -          243.0
1781          1.9          0.1           5.0      --    4E5.5           2P,. 6                    5 13.9
1PS                         1.'        20.0           Z- .7             ?6. .111.3
1983          0.4 *        10.7         50.0     n.a.   :?31.5         102.5           --        3095.0
1084          2.4 *       12.6          20.0     n.a.   36Q2.8          W0.7         2:7.6       4056.2
Source: Brlsa lHezicana de ";lares S.A. de C.V.
*tIvestsent Funds
LCPT2
June 1985



59                                     A=G 9
SPERATING IMPO2RTS tt AEN  NSiR STOCK EXCHANE
1984  XONEY NARK
(in billions of puo;)
:ETE5          Canrcial Pipar        Bank Acceptancus    Gold   d Silver
Stock Exr-hangIe                                           -                             ---------- _   __ _ _     _ _ __
Iup:r:s     I         Itport;      I        Ivcl rts      :        .1arts      5
Accicmes krsatil SaA S.A.                 4350.9    15.94         35.3      6.10         r.7    16.22        0.009    50.00
Acc. y Jlmoru  de Nxico S.A. de C.V.    304.4         1.11                   --          39.2     6.78          --       -
Allun V. Uoyd y  Asociadas S.A.             67.0      0.24         ---       ---          3.1     0.54
hursaux S.A.                               317.0      1.15         -                      7.4     1.29          -
Capital Cata de Balsa S.A.                 22s.6     0.94         18.0      3.11        22.0      3.8           --1
ans de 1.sa Art& S.A.                      :'0.!      1.'1         0.2      O.0E         6.2      1.0'          --
Cias  de Blsa Reio S.A.                   :452.5     5.29          ---       --          8.0      :.:_
Csa die bLu hupais S.A.                    141.7      0.52         3.0      0.52         6.8      1.1l 
Cas  de   i.l  Cri S.A.                   1046.5     3.91          2.3      0.40        34.7      6.01          --
Cm  de Dols  Fiuma S.A.                    2C7.9       .76         -         --          0.       C.T      _
Casa de hls. Intwaruicaa S.A.              353.4      1.29         0.2      0.03        89.8    15.37           -
Casa de hlia Invarlat S.A. de C.V.        1681.6     6.12         75.6    13.06         22.9      3.95
Cau  de lolols Rdr. LA. de C.V.           1041.5     3.79         96.8    16.r2          13.6     2.3S          --
Cau de bloa MdUO  S.A.                     133.7     0.49          0.5      0.09         9.6      1.0           -
Cawrmn Cia de Hodu  S.A.                  1293.6     4.71         41.6      7.19        27.7      4.79          -
Estratgia Irutil S.A.                       59.1     0.22          -         -           4.6      0.80          -
Famnto de Valores S.a. de  U V.             1194      1.31         9.1  i  1.57         25.7      4.45                   -
Interval Casa de hIsa S.A. de C.V.         173.1     0.63          3.8      0.66        10.2      177          --
lnnvruico S. ..                           1298.8     4.6           -         -    '      0.0      9.65          --
Innvrswa uruatil S.A.                      115.7     0.42          5. 2     090          6.5      1.12          -
law   E. by Y Asociadas S.A.               34.3       0.95          .0       .00         -         --
IhItialoris S.A.                          1202.0     4.38          --        --         26.1      4.5           --
Operadora de Bolsa S.a.                   2683.2      977         177.4    30.64        21.5      3.7              
Probursa S9A. de C.V.                      999.9     3. 64       109.5    19.74         21.9      3.79          -
SocMidad Baruatil  .zicana  .A.            110.7     0.40          -         --          2. 3     0.50         -
Sha Cmtra de Inversiones S.A.              35.0       1.44         1.4      32.4         0.2      0.03          -
T&snici Sursatil S.A.                      796.6     2.90          --       ---          2.6      0.45         --
valores Dincreser S.A.                     142.0     0.52           -        -           7.2      1.25      0.0009    S0.00
Valors Bursatiles de Nxica S.A.              484      1.76          --       ---         5.8      1.00          --       -
Valoes Fionx S.A.                         4509.4    16.42          -                    10.4      1.90         -         -
TOTAL                   27469.1   100.00        579.9   100.00        m7.    100.00        0.0017   100.00
So;rce: Balsa flhuica  de Valaore  S.A. de C.V.
LCPI2
June 1985



1    CAITAU 
(in billis uf  su)
ksots            Ublijtlaon           Petrobauds             Bmnds
Stock Exchungr-
Imports    I        lupcrts      :       Ispart.      I       Iorts    :
Accimu                                   89.r2at  S..  LA.1 99  12.53  L5.3    6.06  9.9    1.73       9.4   17.0
Acc. y Valorn de ftxitc  S.A. de C.V.    4.1      6.33         1.4    0.5         .15.5    2.74        33.2    6.16
Allen V. Uoyd y kociudn S.A.              2.5    0.35           .0    0.01         0.7    0.12          0.,    0.06
Brm   S.A.                                9.1    1.35         0.07    0.03         9.3.   1.15          3.5    0.65
Cpital Cam de Blsa S.A.                  20.0    2.51          3.4    1.35          1.3    0.2          0.9    0.17
Casa de blu  Arka S.A.                   22.0    3.09          C.5    0.20        1'.3    2.18          2.0    0.37
Casa d Balsa Nuico S.A.                   3.2    0.73          0.1    0.04         9.7    1.72          4.2    C.71
Casa de blsa kmpais S.A.                  5.4    0.76          0.2    0.01         1.6    0.29          5.0    C.93
Can de holu Crui S.A.                    22.3    3.13          0.3    0.12        34.5    6.10          5.9    1.0
Casa de blua Fina S.A.                    8.4    1.18          0.6    0.16         6.5    1.15          9.5    1.76
Cu   de Blsa latwruuic    S.A. L.2    5.31                     0.4    0.16        21.7    5.09         10.0    1.U
Cas a   BdLe u Invrlat S.A. de C.V.     32.0    4.49          1.0    0.0         59.1   10.46         35.4    6.57
Casa de bla Ndura S.A. de C.V.            7.5    S."          16.3    6.45        11.9    3.34          9.7    1.3
Can t blu  hdrazo S.A.                    1.7    0."            .0      .00        0.7    0.12          0.8    0.15
Cauruix Caii de Dlsa S.A.                 3.3     1.17         5.0    1.98         3.9    0.67          1.3    1.54
Estratugia Dunatil S.A.                   7.4    1.04          1.3    0.51        12.1    2.23          0.5    0.09
Fumnto td Valarn  S.A. de C.V.           26.7    3.75          1.5    3.S9        59.3   10.49          33.0    6.12
Interval Casa de Dolsa S.A. de C.Y.      14.1    1.99         3.1      1.23        8.3    1.47         13.9    2.3
Invurhuzica S.A.                         35.7    5.01          8.3    3.45        41.7    7.38         90.1   14.86
Znversora lBurstil 9.A.                  64.7    9.09         2.0    0.79         63.5   11.13          5.9    1.08
Jams E. Day Y Asaciadus S.*.              2.2    0.31          .0       .00        0.3    0.05           .0    0.01
Nultivalcr.s S.A.                         2.0    0.28           .0    0.01         1.3    0.23          1.4    0.26
Cpunadana di lain 9.4.                  115.0   16.15         69.5   27.13        57.1   10.10         70.2   13.02
Probara S.a. de C.V.                     30.9    4.34         44.7    17.70       69.6   12.31         23.1    4.2!
Sociedad Bursatil Iiiicus 9.A.           13.9    1.94          1.0    0.40         3.2    0.57          4.7    0.37
Susa Cmntra de Invirsiones S.A.          16.0    2.25        67.1   26.57           'I     0.90        30.7    5.70
Tacnica Bursatil S.A.                     3.2    0.45          7.5    2.97         0.2    0.04         11.l    2.06
'Jilares Bancruumr S.A.                  12.0    1.69          2.4    0.95        2T.8    3.68          6.0    1.11
Valarms Bursatiles dc lhxico S.A.         6.5    0.91          .0      .00         3.4    0.60          4.9    O.tI
Valcres Fi^mau  S.A.                     11.3    1.59          0.2    0.09         6.1    1.09         29.5    5.29
Manuel F. Curbela E.                      1.0    0.14           .5      .00         .0      .00         --       -
Jacabo  LifShitZ Shusky                   1.7    0.24          .0      .00         0.1    0.01
Francisco Skacti Ncba                     0.2    0.03                  -            .0      .00         -        -
Luis Trevino Narqur                       5.0    0.70           .0     .00         0.3    0.05          -
TTAL                    712.1 100.00        252.5  100.00       565.3  100.00        539.0  100.0)
Source: Balsa Nhxicana de Valores 5.A. de C.V.
LCPI2
Jim. 1985



- 61 -
IExco                        Annex 9
T 20
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
COC-PORATE STOCe MARKET                 --
ValuemL  of        NLmber                Rlight3 jesuea
Yea.rs     Negot: ated            of                                      -
{::ci-p;-ztG Stock    Op3.ration,    ^verage      Fi;-      Fall
1778                356 .         1656833 c69                 77        34
1979                806.5         344010            97        72        62
1980                912.7         305860           103        '3        52
1981               1291.7         217775           100        29        35
1982                840.6         16                          l8        25
1L 983             1200.317                         67        26        15
1- S4              2510.8         224143            J9        29        22
Saur_e: Bolsa Mexicana de Valares S.A. de C.V.
* m, 'iones of corporate stocks per day.
LCPI2
Juie 1985



~~ulz                     -
IDM         ii TIE SMIAL CAPITAL F FINI
am= I1 TIE W TUC   IV 3                    1"P
f.illiaus of puma)
Extractive   Traufsorution   Cautruction                Cuuicatiau
Years      Total    Industry        ladutry         Inditry      Crcc            ad          iruica    Mtrs
Trmnprtatim
199      10735.5         212.4           3502.3         2414.5       2.3            290           -     133.1
1930      9906.1          19.8           574U.8 3.2                  81.0           32132         -      046.5
1931     13995.3        35.0             88.3            309.7       48.6           1241.7        -       Z.5
199      : 5560.0        23.4             317.9          116.7      500.0            7n.3         -      1".5
13        52.1              -           296.9           2424.3        -                 .         -
lip      35193.6         54.0             370.5            ----011.                               -      707.3.
Source: bulsa  nicaa de Valores S.A. de C.V.
LC?12
Jun S98S



- 63 -
Annex 9
T 22
NERICO
ITDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
INCOME STATENEIT
(Pnos NilliK)
ACTUAL                                                F0RECAST
REUM                                M90      1901       192       1993      1914      19        1996       1"?       19K       19       1990
lntvrut [InC                       1044      &10       4602    1215!    16543    21191         473       9M5       139411   214254   33576
laturnt Espu                        64U       934      2052      6710       6936      9905     14613    15675    213          21166    29106
Puhrno l Coats                       29         42        74       114       191       396        524       743      1013      1331       195
Other Auim Csts                      14         57       721      1117       923       164        447       693       970      1310       1761
Provisim  f   LoUssn                                                                    79        165       494      106      '2049       3434
;E  !NC1NE                          356      11O5       1935      4214      9593    10657    31609    *2991   115021   11134    291
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1986



- 64 -
Annex 9
T 23
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET
(Pesos millionl
ACTUAL                                              FoRECA 5T
ASSETS                            :910      !511      1982     193       19U4      1995     19        19        1983      1999      1990
Sovurnunt bnods                    976        ;0         5         1       197      S751    15036         10        10        10     -pi
Loans                             7143    10573    17917    :890U    36434    47726   10404U   22446   437191   7035O  1:52077
Receivabln                         O3        625      :230        !9        26        42        74       119       172      :33       330
Other khts                           2         4         4         4        15       115       136       164       200      24?       307
TOTIL ASSETS                     1320 9    !;:0      19056     6930    36672    51635   119291   221739   43758o   7064   1160:06
!!AUILITIES
Payibles                           !*        208       579      1272      1260      4162      7122    11015    16647    25039    t6391
Banco Be Nezica Loans             3710      32so 0       0      2960      3764       955       121         0      =3254    54279    51090
lurld kank Loan - 2331-NE                                                   13       932      8453    16302    15353    14254    13150
iorld  kok Loan - Others         3i95       4846      658       9299    12353    13562    27414    280E         27106    25119    21355
Other lank Loans                   16          175    5042      7701     2979       5407      6500     590       4614      2909       m
Other Labhl;.t:n                     5        10        15        33        00        95       174       19t      224       260       .06
73TAL LA3ILITISS                  7&0       9519   115504    21164    20349    25012    49954    62211    97203   121960   123065
Capital                            :         : 25     1;5        125       !.5     :903    17177    43049   103422   192211   ;22:60
acc.a Profits                        7       441      1592      .4:6     7606    16199    :6759    57893    30224   244452   42474*
E-:ange  amr:at:zf                                                                  3040     56;3      6815      7497      7974      9156
Net Incame                         -6       1155      1935      4214     i593    :0657    31609    72991   115021   !81340   299636
Less Subsidies                                                                        97       4 5      i6o       79;      1052      1447
5TAL  !U;.TY                       569      :";1 '     2I       7765    :o123    26623    @9439   166451   540-7 7 609996  1037041
--.AL .IAI0IZi:ES t EGUTY         ;;38    !::40    19056    :9929    :6672    54165   i;19291   229739   437590           00U46  1160106
Reserves f^r Lasses                                                                   79       244      739      :821      3970      7304
Equity to Tctal Assetstli          a.a    :a%         19.61    26.al    44.51    51..?    59.2?    72.al    77.9s          93.3?    69.4Z
;eturn    A kssts                  4.:1 1 1.5?    ::.1         17.6?    26.2?    24.1?    37.0?    41.9Z    34.5?    31.01    31.7S
Return :s Equity                 167.9?%   :)4.1%   106.;?   t:a.7 7      :12?    66.7?    93.62    79.1Z    51.0?    42.4?    40.6?
Source: FONEI
LCP12
June 1986



- 65 -
Annex 9
T 24
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
SOURCES & USES OF rUNDS
Pusas nitlion)
f C R E C A S T
SMI'RCES                        1795      1996     1987      1999     1999      190
Surplus                                          1026          0        0         0
Repayents Pre-1984 Credits  :4424         7421     6592      5251     3571    1[19
Repayent Normal Loans              0       114     1143      3219     9S5A    21370
Repaymnt of PYP Loans              0      xu4    14376    30543    59112    94613
?ayables                        2902     2960      3993     5632      1392    11352
Banco at Mexico                 3199         0        0      3254    2102!         0
EBRO Disb.lexist. lomns)        4906    24937    186        1996      1310      236
IBRD Disb.lnew lains)              0    10780    223       36794    95422   126049
Other Liabilities                 1S        79       22        2t       36        46
Net inc^ne                     10657    31609    72991   115021   191343   29
.Non Cash Expenses                79       165      494      1013     2049      34
TOTAL                          36042    63410   150737   252912   370973   5414
AFPLICATICN
Disbursments                   20645    41044    32903   149229  *1:959   302795
PVP Firancing                   3612    24624    55932    96693   128650   '0246
!nterest Receivible             1409    3;69       6171    1327    19314    27122
Receivables                       I6        32       45        53       66        92
Domestic Repayments             6099       734     1223      1!04     1104      4293
Foreign Repayments               512      1500     1773      1977    2182      2318
Subsidies (Techn Frogram)         97      475       660       793     1052      1447
Fixed Investsent                 '00        21       29        36       47        60
Surpluzs                        3554    11295         0         0        0     7381
7TAL                           '6042    93410   150737   252812  r30973   549554
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1986



- 66 -                                     Annex 9
T 25
R1113
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
lbuuptiuus for FOI's u Finiacidl Projgctseos
F IA AEC A3 5 
1935  1936  1937    1LY      1969     199
Cmta ts                                                     Itno   lliin)
Equ&put                                 14944    37060    47905    9660    12676   179627
CapacLty Optaalzatinn                    114      562     4906     559      5670     73
Pollutio  Cmntral                        1663     2040     392      349       73 m    26474
ITO CmnvttCmdl Lows                     3133     4749     601       7934    I        144M
TD Cnitional1 Lons                       976     4731     939      1014    24356    33747
Morkial Capital                          1291    1205    24611    37131    5137    64
Pr.-lavst.nt Studin                      315      1330     1684     2231     3116    4124
Equity                                     0       0      13001    21515    29910    3
7OTIL                                  26201    714"   132539   193103   259361       7193
DiUuersets
Equapnt                                 113S1    25547    47654    12473   111152    6532
Cauacity 4.Auizationl                    115      1153    2970      4168     5709     69
a1llutzin Control                        330      913      233      26       422      533
ITO :onventinad  Loans                  265      2137     5439     1627      9933    1119
:r  Conditionsi LOun                     439     2138     5013    1I19    17419   27111
loruins Ca&ital                          950      5425    11909    24463    .9Sb    53760
Ps-In4vtmt Studin                        142      621      940      19       244      3292
:UitEty                                    0      3105     9530    14123    21827    314
ST*L                 ~ZI5    415,U    3,'03   11221   2:559   S027m
't:raa Intornt Patn
:PP
Eqaxpmt                        1.00    36.00    70.00    55.00    40.00    M5.00   35.00
Capacity apthimzatian          1.04   53.24    72.30    57.20    41.60       6.40    36.40
'ollutson Control              3.N     49.23    61.60   43.40   3w.20    30.80   30.0
T  Convuntioinal Loins         3.m     49.21    61.60    3.40   35.20    30.10    30.0
1U :ondttimnal Leos            1.00    56.00    70.30    55.iO    40.00    ;5.00    35.00
morking .aoital                1. 4     9.26    72.30    57.20    61.40    31.40    34.40
Pro-iz..stant Stddts           3.30    49.21    61.0    41.40    ;5.20    33.30    30.30
Equity                         :.J5     3.1 0    73.50    57.75    42.00     6.735   36.s5
:zzs23smu2zz zzuzzgszu2susz3zzs23:ss2ga.
caDpIZ                                    56        70       55       40       35       35
.zc40a9  Rat                             230       550      650      725      000      50
PW  Loans4Z1                              50        70       00       es       Is       a5
Source: FONEI                                                                LCPI 2
June 1986



-67 -                           Annex 9
T-26
IXCO
DIDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Total Commitments by Program Type 1979-84
PROGRAM                1979      1980      1981      1982     1993      1924
COMMITMENTS BY PROGRAM (Current Mex Pe5os Million)
Equipment              3005      4598      6625      9785     7477      7976
- New Companies            0        0      2102     358B      3495      3945
- Expansions               0        0      4440      4980     3051      3223
- Additional Loans         0        0        83      1217       931      809
Capacity Optimiz.          0        0         0         0      291      1354
Pollution Control       100        43       464      1153       196      175
Technology                89        5       186       488     1683      1603
Studies                    1        3         1         9         9        1
Special Program            0        0         0         0     5339       431
Working Capital            0        0         0         0         0      808
Training                  0         0         a 8       3         0        0
Total                  3194      4649      7284    11438    14993    12349
PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION BY PROGRAM (Percent)
Equipment                94%       99%       91%       86%      50%       65%
- New Companies            0%       0%       29%       31%       23Y      32%
- Expansions              0%        0%       61%       44%      20%       26%
- Additional Loans         0%       0%        1%       11%        6%       7%
Capacity Optimiz.         0%        0%        0%        0%       2%       11%
Pollution Control          3%        1%       6%       10%        1%       1%
Technology                3%        0%        3%        4%      11%       13%
Studies                   0%        0%        0%        0%       0%        0%
Special Program           0%        0%        0%       -0%      36%        3%
Working Capital           0%        0%        0%        0%        0%       7%
Training                  0%        0%        0%        0%       0%        0%
Total                   100%      100%      100%      100%      100%     100%
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



- 68 -
Annex 9
T 27
x3aco
INDUTIAlE   RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Commitments under the Equipment Program by Loan St:e 1981-84
SIZE (Mic Pesos)            1981          1992          1995          1984
AMOUNTS IMLILIon Pesos)
Lesa than 58                 637           773           166           256
50 - 160                   1,751         1,251           678           S21
100 - 175                 1,367         2,Z30         1.251         1,418
175 - 266                 2,600         2.515           371           359
208 - 300                    870         2,566        2,181          2,018
More then 300                  0           450        2,830         3,404
TOTAL                     6,625          9,785        7,477         7,976
COMPOSITION (Percent)
Less than 56                  10X           86             21            3X
50 - 160                      26X           131            9S            7X
100 - 175                     21S           231           171           18X
175 - 200                    30X           261            5X            5%
2DO - 300                     13S           26Z           291           251
More then 300                  61           S            381           431
TOTAL                        1681         i1s0           1006          106X
NUMBER OF LOANS
Less than 50                  26            2B             6             9
50  - 100                     21            17             9             6
100 - 175                     le            17           18            11
175 - 200                     16            13            2             2
200 - 300                      3             9             9             8
More then 300                  a             1             6             7
TOTAL                         70            85            42            43
NUMBER OF LOANS (Percent)
Less than 58                  37X           331           141          211
50 - 186                      306           206          21X            141
106 - 175                     141          206           24%           261
175 - 200                     141           161          S             SX
200 - 300                      41           11           21X           192
More then 300                  81            11           141          16X
TOTAL                        1661          1601          1681          1861
Source:  E        -
LCP12
June 1985.



- 69 -
Anuex 9
T 28
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Commitments under the Equipment Program by Economic Sector 1981-84
SECTOR                     1981          1982          1983         1984
AMOUNTS (Million Pe5os)
Metals/Machinery          3,930         4,094         3,368        1,457
Basic Metals                585           683           868          801
Chemicals                   619         2,184           871        2,243
Pulp and Paper              309           289           523          671
Minerals                     58         1,507           378         1,100
Food                        443           137           896           411
Textiles                    681           477           190         1,043
Other                         a           416           383          249
TOTAL                     6,625         9,785         7,477        7,976
COMPOSITION (Percent)
Metals/Machinery             59X           42%           45%           18l
Basic Metals                  9%            7%           12X           10Z
Chemicals                     9%           22%           12X          28%
Pulp and Paper                SZ            3X            71            8X
Minerals                      1X           15X           5            141
Food                          7Z            1Z           12%           SZ
Textiles                     10%           S             31           13Z
Other                         0Z            41            5X           31
TOTAL                       18O1          1001          1001          1008
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



- 70 -
Anex 9
T 29
MEICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Total Commitments by Region 1980-84
REGION                  1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
AMOUNTS (Million Pesos)
Nuevo Leon            1,136    1,849    2,498    3,003    2,453
Mexico (incl.DF)         360    1,169       889    3,110    2,082
Jalisco                 247       358    1,669    1,705        943
Others                2,907    3,908    6,882    7,175    6,871
Total                 4,649    7,284   11,938   14,993   12,349
COMPOSITION (Percent)
Nuevo Leon               24%       25%       21%       20%      20X
Mexico (incl.DF)           8%      16%        7%       21%      17%
Jalisco                   5%        5%       14%       11%       8%
Others                    63%      54%       58X       48%      56%
Total                  10%       100%      100%      IOO%     100%
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



-71 -                           Annex 9
T 30
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Total Disbursemenis by Financial Intermediary 1979-84
BANK                    1979     1980      1981      1982    1983*      1984
AMOUNTS (Million Pesos)
BANAMEX                  235      621    1,018    1,409    2,199    1,725
BISA                      59      285       714    1,213    2,445    1,475
BANCO BCH                  0       1S         0         0    1,277    1.206
BANCO DE CREDITO           0        0       106       142    1,023    1,164
BANPAIS                  284       51        52        83      675    1,063
BANCOMER                201       ,55       510      613       629    1,003
NAFINSA                   11      187       365      397    1,071        943
SOMEX                   427       619       575      714       437       753
BANCOMEXT                  0        0        83      450       719       559
Other Banks             848    1,296        982    1,343    4,517    3,564
TOTAL                 2,062    3,328    4,405    6,363   14,993   13,454
COMPOSITION (Percent)
BANAMEX                   11%      19%       23%       22%      15%       13Z
BISA                       3%       9%       16X       19X      16%       11%
BANCO BCH                  0%       0%       0        0        9X        9X
BANCO DE CREDITO           0%       0%        2Z        2Z       7%        9%
BANPAIS                   14Z       2%        1X        1%       5%        8Z
BANCOMER                  10       8X       122       10       4%        7%
NAFINSA                    1%       62        82        62       7%        7%
SOMEX                    21%       19%       13%      11%        32        62
BANCOMEXT                  0%       0%        22       72        5%        4%
Other Banks              412       39%       22Z      21%       30%       26%
TOTAL                    100%     100%      1002      100%     16%      100l
* Comitrments
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



- 72 -                           Annex 9
MEICO                                  T 3L
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Summary of Projected and Actual Subproject Perforrance 1981-84
inmmminininxainw Wininminininminmminmininmwmainmwmininmmminminininmm...
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR          1981         1982        1983         1984
INVESTMENT COSTS (Mio. Pesos)
Projected                     4,392      14,106       23,679       30,273
Actual                        4,949      18,592       29,321       49,123
Actual/Projected                113%         132%        124%         162%
EMPLOYMENT IMPACT (Number of Jobs created)
Projected                     5,715      17,053       20,764       30,Z84
Actual                        6,909      19,228       18,118       26,829
Actual/Projected (M)            121%         113%         87%          89%
SALES PERFORMANCE (Mio. Pesos)
Projected                      N.A.      38,821       90,124      209,596
Actual                         N.A.      30,603       49,949      154,536
Actual/Projected (%)           N.A.           79%         55%          74%
FOREIGN EXCHANGE GENERATION (Mio. Pesos) *
Projected                     7,101       2,719        3,928        7,384
Actual                        5,049       1,404        2,250        5,193
Actual/Projected (%)             71%          52%         57%          70%
IMPLEMENTATION DELAYS (Number of Projects)
Less than six Months             26           62          63           66
More than six Months             11          22           43           64
Delays/Total Project5            30%          26%         41%          49%
COMPANY PROFTTS (Percent of Companies)
Negative                         15           26          44           42
Below ProjecLions                47          49           38           45
As Projected                     18            4           5            6
Above Projections                21          20           18           13
______________________
* 1981: all subprojects; 1982-84: sample of 40 subprojects
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



-73-                           Annex 9
T 32
EICO
UIDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Financial Composition of Subprojects under the Equipment Program
1979-84
FINANCING SOURCE       1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
AMOUNTS (Million Pesos)
FONEI Loan            3,665    4,598    6,625    9,785    7,477    7,976
Intermediary Loan       797    1,680    1,861    3,521    1,377    1,347
Company               1,711    4,B74    5,592   13,661   12,475    5,599
Other                   433    4,354    1,687   11,834   12,452    3,339
Total Investment      5,945   15,505   15,704   38,861   33,782   18,26Z
Working Capital       1,818    4,356    5,165    6,924    6,920    3,944
Total Project         7,763   19,861   20,869   44,925   40,761   22,206
COMPOSITION (Percent)
FONEI Loan               391       23X      32X       222      18%       36X
Intermediary Loan        18O        8X       91        81       3X        61
Company                  22X       251      27X       30X      31%       25X
Other                     6X       22X       8X       26X      31X       15X
Total Investment         771       78X      751       871      83X       82X
Working Capital          231       22X      2S1       131      171       18Z
Total Project           198%      186X    1O1       1006     199%      1007.
Source: FOWEI
LCP12
June 1985



- 74 -
Annex 9
~~xico  ~~~~T 33
MEXICO                             T3
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Projected and Actual Rate5 of Return of a Sample of Subprojects(%)
COMPANY         PROJECTEO FPR           ACTUAL FRR            DIFFERENCE
1                 32.2                  13.6                 -18.6
2                 27.7                  11.1                 -16.6
3                 21.5                  10.2                 -11.3
4                 25.0                  15.2                  -9.8
5                 19.4                  10.1                  -9.2
6                 19.2                  10.5                  -8.8
7                 260.0                 12.6                  -7.4
a                 13.9                   7.2                  -6.7
9                 25.5                  19.3                  -6.2
10                 19.0                  13.1                  -5.9
11                 17.3                  12.8                  -4.5
12                21.4                  17.8                  -3.6
13                 18.0                  14.5                  -3.5
14                 18.0                  16.2                  -1.8
15                 18.0                  19.3                   1.3
16                 15.8                  19.8                   4.0
17                 19.5                  24.2                   4.7
1s                 17.5                  26.1                   8.6
19                 18.0                  33.7                  15.7
20                 18.0                  40.6                  22.6
AVERAGE                      20.2                  17.4                  -2.9
Source: FONEI
LCP12
June 1985



- 75 -
Annex 9
T 34
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Projected and Actual Financial Performance of Borrowing Companies
1981-84
1981      1982       1983       1984  AVERAGE
NUMBER OF COMPANIES WHOSE ACTUAL PROFITS WERE
Negative                   15        26         44        42         32
Below Projections         47         49         38        45         45
As Projected               18         4          5          6         8
Above Projections         21         20         18        13         18
Sun                      101         99        105       106        103
PERCENT OF COMPANIES WHOSE ACTUAL PROFITS WERE
Negative                  15%        26%        42%       40%        31%
Below Projections         47%        49%        36%       42%        44%
As Projected              18%         4%         5%        6X         8%
Above Projections         21X       2O         17%       12%        18%
Sun                      100%       100X%      le%       100%       100%
Soiee: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



Annex 9
T 35
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Comritments under the Equipment Program by Product Destination
1979-84
1979    198I    1981    1982    1983    1984
COMMITMENTS (Pesos Million)
Exports                 888     645    1319    1118    216S   3739
Import                 1205    2420    4361    4212    2285    1817
Substitution
Exports or              912    1533      945    4455    3027    2420
Import
Substitution
---------------------------------------------------------__---------
TOTAL                  3005    4598    6625    9785    7477    7976
COMMITMENTS (Percent)
Exports                  30%      14%     20%     11%    29%      47%
Import                   40%     53%     66%     43%     31%    23%
Substitution
Exports or               30%     33%      14%     46%     40%    30%
Import
Subst:tution
--------------------------------------------------------------__----
TOTAL                   100%    100%    100%    100%    100%   100%
Source: FONEI
L"P12
June 1985



~ 77 -                       Annex 9
T 36
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
FONEI: Projected and Actual Export Performance of Borrowing Companies
(Million Pesos)
COMPANY   YEAR         PROJECTED      ACTUAL       DTFFERENCE    DIFFERENCE
EXPORTS        EXPORTS        (Amounts)      (Percent)
1     82             169            811             642            47S9
2     83             679           1103             423             1621
3     84            3093           3286             193             1066
4     83             112             107             -5              96Z
5     82             148             127            -21              86X
6     83             233             198            -36              85Z
7     83             362             302            -60              83X
8     8'               5               4             -1              751
9     84             954            656            -298              691
10     82             677            441            -236             651
11     81             290             184           -105              641
12     83             383             198           -185              521
13     84             695            358            -337              521
14     83             374             155           -219              421
15     83             659             i47           -512              221
16     83            1i3               26           -104              20%
17     82             152              20           -131              13%
18     81              38               s            -33              131
19     81             413              49           -364              121
29     84            1639             184          -1455              11l
21     81              54               6            -48              11Z
22     83             262              14           -249               5X
23     84             610              18           -592               31
24     81             130               2           -128               21
25J    81             130               0           -129               0X
,'6    81              87               0            -87              0O
27     82               7               0             -7               OZ
28     81             100               a           -100              0O
29     82              53               6            -53               0%
30     82             319               6           -319               01
31     84             393               0           -393               01
32     83             734               a           -734               61
33     82            1190               0          -1190              0O
34     81               0              10             16           N.A.
35     84               0             217            217           N.A.
35     81               0              10             10           N.A.
37     84               0             390            390           N.A.
38     82               0               1              1           N.A.
39     84               0              65             65           N.A.
40     84               0              19             19           N.A.
sun                       15273            9114          -6159              606
- Source: EONEI
3i2'gi1985



- 78 -
Annex 9
T 37
MEXQTO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Snury of tmnitnents and Disbursements under Previuus rII lt (lBS killi,)
LOON                    1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1579   1990   199I   192   1983   134   1985
RCWWLRTED COIIIIIIIENS U  DISIURSDUETS
rOaE! I (02-HE)
Ctmitted               6.0   11.7    1.8   31.8   35.0   35.0
Disbursed              0.0    5.4   16.9   27.7   323   35.0
r[EI II (1205-HE)
Ctmitted                                            19.0   47.0  5.0   40.0   50.0
Disbursed                                            5.6   23.2   39.2   18.0   50.0
romN III (1560-HE)
Eunitted                                                          43.5   95.0   97.7  100.0
Disbursed                                                         10.7   52.2   02.6  100.0
[ONEI I (1712-HE)
twitted                                                                   46.9  119.5  153.3  160.7  160.2  175.0
Disbursed                                                                  7.1    7.3   92.1  110.6  131.6  155. 
twmitted               6.0   11.7   31.0   34.8   54.8   82.0   93.5  189.9  297.2  253.3  169.7  160.2  175.0
Disbursed              0.0    5.4   16.9   27.7   39.0   59.2   49.9  107.3  179.9  192.1  110.6  131.6  155.9
EHIRL COMITrIETS RUD OISOIRSDIEI
OIEI I (82-HE)
E mitted               6.0    4.9   20.1    3.0    0.2    D.O
Disbursed              0.0    5.4   11.5   100    4.7    2.6
FONEI II (1205-HE)
Ctitted                                             19.8   27.2    3.0   -2.0    2.0
Disbursed                                           5.6   17.6   16.0    3.8    2.0
[ONE! III (1565-0)
Cmitted                                                           43.5   51.5    217    2.3
Disbursed                                                         10.7   41.5   30.4  17.4
FNEI IQ u1n1124)
Cwitted                                                                   46.9  102.6    3.9   15.4   -9.5   14.3
Disbursed                                                                 7.1   401.  14.8   19.5   21.0    4.3
sun
Camtted                6.8    4.9   20.1    3.0   20.0   27.2   46.5   96.4  107.3    5.1   15.4  -8.5   15.8
Disbursed              0.0    5.4   11.5   10.8   10.3   20.2   26.7   57.4   72.6   622   18.5   21.0   243
Source: FONEI
LCPI2
June 1985



- 79 -
Annex 10
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
On the Industrial and Financial Sectors
Working Paper on the Industrial Sector
Working Paper on the Financial Sector
Sinopsis Financiera Sectorial, IV 1984
Revised Law on Banking Operations
Law for the Stock and Securities Market and Investment Companies
Monthly Inarmation on the Mexican Stock Exchange April 1984 to March 1985
Stock Exchange Indicators March 1985
Report to the Government on the Determination of Banco de Mexico's
Internal Saldo
Statistics of the Comision Nacional de Valores 1984
Annual Report of the Stock Exchange, 1983
On FONEI
Operating Regulations of FONEI
Annual Reports 1980,83
Statistical Analysis of new Lending Operations 1983-1984
Supervision Report 1984
Selected FONEI Publications (Microelectronic Industry, Industrial Design)
Technical Documents for FONEI's Lending Operations (Volumes 1-6,8,11)
Manual for Project Formulation and Evaluation



- 80 -                             Annex 11
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Status Su mary on Current Industrial Loans to Mexico
Ld   ND.     PlURMCT NAM         CURRENT STATUS
(Lee. hate)  (Ls_  Amonnt)
1712         FONEI IV            The loan has been fully comitted and
(7/30/79)    ($175 million)      disbursed.  The loan has largely achieved its
institutional objectives.
1823         Smll Mining         The loan has been fully committed and to
(5/13/U0)    ($40 million)       about 80% disbursed.
13s1         5ece.d sm_l         The loan has been fully committed and fully
(9/2W/U)    Industry             disbursed.
($100 million)
2142         Capital Goods       Because of depressed investment levels in
(9/05/32)    ($152.3 million)   capital goods industries, commitments and
disbursements lagged far behind original
projections. In response to a Government
request, the loan has now been opened up to
non-capital goods producers.
2154         Pollution           The project is unlikely to achieve its
(7/16/82)    Control             original objectives because of the reluctance of
($0 Billion)       the Government to enforce exivAing pollution
control legislation following the economic
crisis. Because of inadequate demand US$35.0
million was cancelled. Recent pollution control
measures by the Government are likely to
accelerate demand for both investment and
technical assistance f nds under the project.
2325         Third Smgll         The loan is now about 90% committed, and a
(3/15/33)    Industry            follow-up project is being prepared.
(8/15/33)    $175 million)
2331         E port              Initial disbursements and commitments were
(9/I2S/I)    k,el" nt            slow because of the reluctance of exporters
($350 sillion)     to borrow in dollars. In 1985, commitments
had picked up significantly, and the loan is
now almost fully committed. The loan has
achieved most of its policy objectives.
2546         sml  mixing II    The loan has now become effective.  About $0.5
(16/5/65)    ($105 million)      million has been committed; the current pipeline
of approved subprojects comprises about $2.5
million.



UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
L ALORNIA
I ~ ~~~~~~ -N                                                                    R0e
x        ~~~~NO.rf rE                                                     X   
S I N                                                    U N  V A
.                &t~~~~~~~rmosillo                                   "  tN  -
,        t                \         gsh u~~~~~~~~~~~~~iWha        /
"JSA           o5              |o Or               /                              C  O A /F U I i A 
A Sukt                ,.          Pd Ob=
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~U                                    -'         ,e        D     Ur A   N G        S       9       ->
Lotato a                         AF                 J
20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ M hislA- r 
LoNtIs~~~~~~~N
AJ0 maCadOf.Dcu...                                     C A  Mu/LA
-20'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SlParracl
Lorsto ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~uaa
40 ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ l 
KLOMl"ETERS O   ICO     2WO 31R0 SW 5
. ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,/    N
MILIES O         100         260           30'0
sRN mwAn aw -R+LC                                      JQ
_w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                       ZACAY  CAS~_7-
_r_~~~~~~~~~~_2~~~~                            Mazatido
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Cb SeIs__SA.L
110~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~daea
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'F 



ISRD ISS
|   0                                                                  9D'                           JAUARY 1WI
20
Js  v . -   M E X I C O
B  p >  Naotioril capital
N ~                   -                                       0    Sntat capitals
%"s R0%.-h ^w' 
0   Principol cities or towns
4motm  A                               _,      Divided highways
Sehected main roads
*nebvy   -'   Ra.ilroas
Rivers
NU~O         *                                                           Principal airports
-9Jo  Ni  >                                         - -   State boundaries
1W- 4 1= \ ;^ff*mews  .                   International boundaries
-~~ |  ~ PJC5doi 
or;z   ,' i 
t  >      C  
VictOriaIL  TAMA>\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Meid
*~~~~C *uo  ./A4WC
;~~~SanI.uisI~~~~~~~~,o  ampicoC mpe
0X. rZfa^ 4 t441s 1 A 40,
WASCO ~   ~      ~      ~      HODUA
,:V'',/a c S
.rX P  ~     4Ooorz            g   -- 7-       g\ 0                             BELIZE 
Acop>,=        ( ~OAXACA FA                       / iire        
* 5   ^t                                    _            ~~~~~~~~~GUATEMALA  a 
Toapol> HONDURAS
A ioo-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






