Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lepnR No. 12234
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXCO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 2746-ME)
AUGUST 6 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12234
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division I
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESQ (MEX$=
Mexico has a managed exchange rate with a pre-announced devaluation
of a maximum 40 centavos daily. On April 1, 1993, the exchange rate was
US$1.00 = Mex N$3. 1381
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBRIE-ATION
EDL            Export Development Loan
FSAL           Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FONEI          National Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment
(Fondo Nacional de Equipamiento Industrial)
GIRA            General Interest Rate Agreement
UATr           General Agreement for Trade and Tariffs
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOM             Government of Mexico
IM             International Monetary Fund
IRL             Industrial Recovery Loan
NAFIN           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NAFTA           North American Free Trade Agreement
PACrO           Economic Solidarity Pact
PVP             System of Variable Payments Based on Present
Value
(Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor Presente)
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SHCP            Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wshinton, D.C. 2043
U.SA
Ofti. of Dir.otor-4.neaw
Opernatlo Evauatlon
August 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECEORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECr:   Project Completion Report on Mexco -
Industrial Recovery Project (Loan 2746-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Industrial Recovery Project (Loan
2746) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.
The broad objectives of the project were to improve the quality and broaden the scope of
financial services to medium and large industrial enterprises. Ihe resource transfer objectiae of the
project was met through the provision of a timely and valuable line of credit for industrial
restructurng  However, the objectives aimed at improving the quality of services and promoting
financial sector development were largely unmet. These innovative aspects of the project suffered
from deficiencies in design, lack of local commitment, and a rapidly changing economic environment.
The Bank's performance in project preparation and supervision was poor. Preparation was
based on insufficient understanding of financial sector issues and Bank supervision was cursory.
Overall the project is rated as marginally satisfactory. Institutional development is rated as
negligible and sustainability is uncertain.
The PCR presents a candid assessment of the project's outcome, but lacks sufficient
information on project management and the performance of subloas. Ihe Region notes that the
latter is due to the Borrower's loss of project files during an inst>:-tional reorganization. The
project will be audited along with several other financial and industrial sector operations.
Robert Picciotto
by IL Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
Ihi document has a tetricted dbtnbutbon ad may be used by retdpints only in the peform  of thei offica dutu& Ift
contents may not otheaw  be disoased without Wrd Bak authoratio.                  I



lot OMCIAL tUS ONLY
PRE ACEgr......... ..........*......*..............*...*.....   1
EVLUTONetSUMMARY                 *.........*.........................   6i
P!4tectldeslts   ......         ....... *...*..*.* ..1
Banck  Obeciv            ..Dscpto..................*.............. 14
l4ess Dns  l.anud  Or....ti*...........~..................... 16
prqject         .            ...# *..... *.....*. *.....**. ...*. *                   1..8
PATLA14 EXES *............  0 4.                       ..............**.e *...**          19
Annex!!    Susaitaanb eif ...................................... 14
akPefrance2 onthly      . lnltono...BE  Rate  . ...  . . . ...  . . ........  . . 20
PA sT ons PROECm RE..E ..PROM .T ...BO        .ROW .R.....R ......V....... 216
PR   lLo  STATPOfoISTIAm. ...OR)1soN ... se  .. . ...  . . ... # . .. . .. . .. . ..  172
Tab!e2 loniljatoz      .................................t* * * ** * *    32
Ta sleS   Disi utinfSutionandDs .* ....       ..................*****e****    33
PATbL     ANNE         ..........................................*e*******    34
TAble  L Aaboid  -Subloms by Reg-n                 Ac. .. v.i. i   . .. . . . . .. o ....  es.. . 36
TAbleIL T     Cmhat 1 Rep ayu   in It .e...CDP**nd ..v*s t * *..............**    39
TabIe   ExpCheart 2MndsyofRel tiu.. ..        Ron ..  .. . .... .... ... ...*..... 20
~att   Su Chant by ~uRed  ofDstinatiRwon . . # . ............ see. ... .    .. .. . ... 420
P.ART 2   STATusofSubALs INppRUone        o b    Ai   .  . . .  ................       . ..  294
Tat 3 statu of Sublesand p vdb  Numbe...        ....  . . . ... .0 . . ... .          ....4
This 6 do pet haa  rwestmite  dsrby utiosadw    may..be.used by re..in. onyI teprfrm
T*     7 terofcAluthoizesd  Isconet may  sotd otherwise be .i.c.s ..wthot.o..........ulao. 3
T"     T m   ndRoyad   ........................   3
Cht       R8ofSPosApp               CbyNmer .................... ,                           44
Th   ouenthaa LekOd dSUdbudi^                    y b  use   ynpns0                nt     wamf
ofPAR   kWdTI.  t  PoJtEnt   a               tbRW   e DAVRi{TBBBANKSESE 1hm    o   aksddd



MEXICOMC
s2lD~
sPRWAX
This is the Prject Compleion Report (PCR) for the Industrial
Recovy Project m Meuico, for which Loan 2746-ME in the amount
equivaet to US$150 million was approved on July 29, 1986. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1992. It has been fuly disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on January 28, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Mexico Coumtry Opeati
Diision (LA2C1) in the Lain America and the Canibbean Regional Office
(Peface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and III). Part II was pepared by the
Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was starte in August 1992 and is based,
WiMlr al  on the Staff Appaisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
supevisiokrepmo  and ther sucessive          ,upervion repos,
corr dence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
msemorada.s



ii
LdO" NO.,74d
PROJEOMPLETVION PO
EYALUAfl NSUMMARY
1.       QMectives The Industial Recovery Loan (IRL) was the fifth in a
series of loans to the National Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment (FONEI).
he main objectives of the IRL were in ine with the preceding loans in the
series and were to help consolidate a financial apex institution to hmdle the
long term financial needs of large and medium size industral enterises.
Adtionally, the objectives of the fifth loan put emphasis on financial sector
development to help upgrade the competitiveness and efficiency of firms
during a period of tranition through (i) reestblishing an adequate supply of
long term invesunent capital as well as working capital funds to increase
production and (ii) introducing financial innovations designed for a transiton
period, namely a modified form of inteest capiton and a pilot schme to
tes market acceptance and rles for equity investments. A technical assisce
component was included with the objective of upgading the corporae finance
capabilities of participating financial institutions and spporting deeper analysis
of financial markets and financial needs of industrial companies to set the stage
for a fiancial sector restcturing option. (para. 10)
2.        The IRL was prepared during the inital period of gestation of
implementation of the dramatic process of complete restucting of Mexico's
economy. While the IRL did not contn policy conditionality, it was
presented to the Board in July 1986 as patt of a broader assstance pacpage
tat was conditnal on the trade reform program and on macreonomic
arrangementswith the Mntetnational M roneay Fund. The package was for a
total amount of US$698 million, including the IRL (US$150 million), the first
Thrde Policy Loan I (La. 2745-ME, US$500 million) and the Industrial
Technology Loan (Ln. 2747-ME, US$48 million). (para. 13)
3.       Imp1mmn n Erince. Project implementation went well
when masured by timely disbursment of project funds. During the first
thr  years of the commitment period actal disbursements stayed well ahead
of SAR estimates, despite the diret competion between FONEI's line of
credit and NAFIN's similar pograms which were slighty cheaper and
monsiderd much easier for potntial borrowers to obtain. Credit tightening



Hii
during the second half of 1987 and the continuing shortage of long term
investment credit gave the traditional component of the project a high appal.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1992. The last disbursement was made
on January 28, 1993. (par. 19-20)
4.        On the contrary, implementation did not go well when measured
by progress on fnancial innovations. There was little demand for the
innovative 1RL aspects and components, which had been an essential rationale
for the Bank's involvement. It appeas there were not enough interest by and
incentives for commercial bank to promote and carry out innovative but
potentially higher risk activities given the strong demand for traditional long-
tem financing by financially sound borrowers. Moreover, private enterprises
in Mexico, indeed in Latin Ameica, are known for their conservative
approach especially when minority equity pardcipation by outsiders is
concerned. In addition, as part of GOM's effort to increase efficiency of the
firnacial sector, in June, 1989, FONEI was transferred to NAFIN, and ihortly
thereafter it was fully absorbed into the bank's operations. The change in the
role of FONEI, and related financial reforms that were taking place, led to
substantial uncertnty among the staff of the two agencies as well as their
clients. This also partly expWlains the difficulties in realizing the innovative
components of the project. (paras. 21-24)
5.        Resu   tne IRL mobilized a total amount of credit equivalent to
about US$307 million, spread over 262 subloans. As thmes funds were almost
the only source of long term credit avalable to Mexican industralists dunng
the first years of the project, the IRBL played a modest but effective role in
helping the induswtrial recovery which began to appear in 1987 (para. 27,
Annex I) Based on a sample of 41 subprojects, it is estimated that about
10,000 new jobs were generated, at an average cost of about US$28,000 per
job. The figures suggest that the bias towards high capital intensity, which
chaacteized previous loans (under FONEI IV, the average investment cost
per job generated was US$63,000), may have been diminished. The lower
cost per job created may be a reflecdon of the wider distribution of the credit
among industrial sectors and a greater proportion of investments for balancing
of capacity and technology improvements instead of capacity increases. This
is an additional indication of the high allocative efficiency of the trade
liberalizion reforms to which the IRL was linked. (paras. 28-30; Part m,
Table 10)
6.        From the point of view of the IRL specific task of contributing to
fincial market transformation and innovations, the balance is clearly
negative. Expected demand for such instrumts by enterprs and their
banls never materialized. The imnovative PVP repayment option was chosen
by only 5% of the subloan recipients, coresponding to 8% of the amount of



iv
the IRL. Only 5 equity loans were made, for a total amount of US$5.7
million. The technical assistance program, as defined under the IRL, was not
carried out by NAFIN. Originally, the traditional investment comriponents
(equipment and worldng capital subloans) were allocated 86% of the IRL
(52.3% for investment and 33.1 % for working capital). In comparison, the
results show that the traditional parts of the project took up 97% of the loan
proceeds (70% and 26% respectively). (paras. 21-22)
7.        Sustainability. Although the actual economic and financial benefits
of the subprojects cannot be sufficiently quantified, the findings of the PCR
lead to the conclusion that the resources mobilized by the IRL were efficiently
allocated, due to (i) the link with the trade reforms that meant that the
subloans were granted within the framework of implementation of -t liberal
trade regime and (ii) FONEI took special care in its project evaluation to
assess international competitiveness, by using internaonal prices and not
domestic prices. The quality of the evaluation is confirmed by the very low
level of default and arrears for the subloans in spite of increased competition
and very high interest rates during the initial phase of project implementation.
(pam 31)
8.        LeIssonsILameLd  A series of important lessons can be drawn
from project design, institution building, policy linkages and conditionality,
and project implementation in a rapidly changing environment. The key is a
rapidly changing environment, to which it should be added that at the ime of
preparation of the IRL the Bank was not fully informed on GOM deliberations
of financial sector issues due to political sensitivities. For the IRL project, it
meant that the conceptual foundations of the innovative aspects of the project
were not shared equally by all parties. The events during project
implementation suggest however that it was premature politically to try to
enihven a subsectoral assisance program with broader objectives of financial
engineering of companies and capital market development. In cases of
uncetainty due to lack of data and in a rapidly changing environment, risk
could be reduced more effectively by tight and clear project design on
components that are openly agreed. (pa. 36)
9.        As regards project design, it was an error to ask FONT11, for
administrative simplicity", to express the commercial banks' margins as fixed
percentage points rather than as a percentage of Mexico's average cost of
funds index (CPP). This arrangement had perverse effects: the real financial
cost to the borrower decreased with accelating inflation, and increased as
inflation declined. Thus the success of the macroeconomic stabilization policy
supported by the Bank, led to a wave of advance repayments of IRL subloans.
(paa. 37)



v
10.       Tho IRL put a lot of weight on a small quaty institon to
perform similarly well in new and vary complicated areas of copore finsan
financial reuctring, capital maket analyis, and promoton of equity
instuments.  veopment of now ar  of experse takoes tm  and activ
support from eperienced professionas a wel u sufficent demand for dth
new serices. The results of the IRL indicat that greater   a n of an
Institution, even a good one, ls needed prior to piloti  lnnovative prgrams.
(pan. 38)
11.      In the rpidly changing envi      pv       at th   , the
csoidatin of a number of th exing tut fds for gt   dF.cemy
became a ditinct possibility, which the Bank in punciple fkvored As PON
was a relatively small insttuion, the probability of It being absorbd by a
laWger entity was high and the probability ta Its prgrm  would be
disnmaed was also high. In such cases when devdopments las duing
proect implementtion t suggest that substntiv changes in the project may
be in the offing, the proect should be coverd with mor attenive upervisin
to track developments and to prepare an appropra  respn for the proe
(paa 39)
12.       No financial sector conditons were dietly placd on ts loan,
although for Board pentaim   it was a td with a poiUcy-bad lo
suprig trade reforms. Deeper knowledge of the fini  sctor
undoubtediy would have heped to formulate aroproat           md
at providing more incentives for i mio    of the Inovative pi
componens which 'justdfied the operai  at the tm. (pm  40)



PART   PROJE    REaIEW FROM THE BAK'S PERSPECRSE
Name           Industial Recovery Project
Loan No. :   2746-ME
RVP Unit :   Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country   :   Mxico
Sector         Industry
1.        Loan 2746-ME was the fifth loan channeLed through the Bank of
Mpxico's tu  fund FONg and one of the last under the Bn 's policy to
SUpport second tier instittitons to fince specific target groups through
p  financial intermediares in Mexico. It was prepared during the
initial period of gestation and implemenion of the dramatic process of
complet  recing of Mexdco's economy. The project was thus caried out
m a rapidly changing economic environment. Furthermore, during loan
iplementation the overall country astance strategy that te Bank was
pursuing in Mexico was significantly modifid to support the shift in
Govemment economic policy. For these reasons, it is of particular relevance
for the ex-post evaluation of this prqoect to give an important weight to the
macoecnomic context and to the  formaton of the Mexican economy
and its fincial istultion.
2.        Tbe cises  ienced by the Mexican economy in the first half of
the 1980s were among the most severe tat the country had experinced in its
hito. Beginning with the end of World War H through the mid-1970s, the
economy enjoyed a strong GDP growth rate exceeding 6% per annum on
aver, accompanied by exchange rate, monetay and fiscal stability.
Consadve monetary and fiscal policies, however, were abandoned after
1972 leading to double digit inflation and a seies of peso devaluations. A
short period, 1976-1978, involving some stabiliaton eftfots was followed by



2
highly expansionist policies, geneated by euphoric expectations for growing
oil income and centering around the public sector as the engine of growth.
GDP expanded by an annual average of 8% from 1979 through 1982 but this
growth was unsustainable: it was characterized by soaring fiscal and balance
of payments deficits, acceleated inflation and dependence upon massive
foreign borrowing and oil revenues.
3.        Tle debt crisis in mid-1982, triggered by the fall in international
oil prices and rising world interest rates, forced the new administration, which
took office at the end of ftat year, to adopt a stringent stabilization program
and to seek external debt relief through the postponement of debt servicing. In
1983, the budgetary deficit was sharply reduced and the trade deficit was
changed to a substantial surplus, but at the cost of a 4% decline in GDP.
Some recovery in output was recorded in 1984 and early 1985 and the external
accounts contnued to record surpluses. While the publc sector primary
deficit also shifted to surplus, inflation rates continued at relatively high levels.
A modest attempt was made to liberalize the external sector while some
progress was achiev.ed in divesting mainly small public enterprises.
4.        The economic difficulties confronting the authorities in the mid
1980s were primarily the result of past economic policies dominated by an
oientation toward the internal market, the large role for the State and a highly
regulated business environment, and of the mismanagement of the economic
windfall provided by the discovery of substantial hydrocarbon resources in the
1970s at precisely the moment when the prices of those resources experienced
a sharp rise in international markets. In mid-1985, the economy once more
experienced a severe external shock as oil prices, which had hardened
somewhat after the declines in 1981-1982 from historic high real levels, again
began to tunble with serious repercussions on the public sector deficit as well
as on the trade balance. A destructive earthquake in September 1985 inflicted
fiurther damage on the economy.
5.         Following the change in administration at the end of 1982, the
Bank and Mexican policy makers initiated an extensive policy dialogue in
connection with the first Export Development Policy Loan (EDL 1) approved
in June 1983, and EDL II in 1985, as the Bank sought to provide urgently
needed foreign exchange resources to assist the stabilizationi effort and to help
design the subsequent trade reform process. Given the Limited results from the
earlier stabilization effort, the Government recognized the need to embark on
more comprehensive adjustment measures in order to change the basic
economic structure and to improve resource allocation. As a consequence,
renewed measures for stabilization were accompanied by a major external
trade liberalization program and by a series of large peso devaluations. The
program was supported by two Trade Policy Loans (IPL) from the Bank



3
approved in July 1986 and November 1987. It was widely recognized that
trade liberalization would need to be matched by similar reforms in other key
areas of domestic policies to achieve increased private investment and
participation in the industrial sector. In December 1987 one of the principal
features of the stabilization program was introduced in the form of an
agreement (the PACTO) between the Govemment, labor, farming and business
representatives. In return for fiscal and monetary restraint, the frezing of
public sector prices and tariffs, and the freezing the nominal exchange rate vis-
a-vis the dollar, wages and private sector prices also were frozen.
6.        The Bank's lending activity to the industrial sector was focussed
on addressing the financial needs of spefic target groups, in order to try to
make up for the shortfall in long tem funds available from financial
institutions. Small and medium-scale industry was assisted by four loans,
totalling US$507 milion; the capital goods industry rceived a loan of
US$152.3 million; the two EDL loans totalling US$600 million addressed
industral export promotion; a loan of US$48 million was allocated to the
development of industrial technology; another for US$60 million helped to
reduce environmental pollution; and, five loans to FONET amounting to
US$510 million (including the Industrial Recovery Loan-IRL) were devoted to
providing supplemental medium- and long-term financing for investment
projects.
7.        The presentation of the IRL to the Board was linked to reaching
agreement on the first Trade Policy Loan (TPL 1), which was itself conditional
on the irreversible opening of the Mexican economy as well as on other
macroeconomic criteria. TPL I, the IRL and the industrial technology loan
were presented to the Board as one package. (See pam 13) After the IRL
approval, a set of sector adjustment and hybrid loans, adding up to an
impressive total of US$5.2 billion over the fiscal years 1987-92, provided
incentives for a comprehensive reform package combining macroeconomic
policy with micro adjustments in key areas.
ftFect Objectives-and Descritom
8.        Despite the temporary recovery of the industral sector in 1984/85,
subsequent to EDL I and in parallel with EDL II implementation, serious
constrains remained. The sudden growth in manufactred exports in 1983/84
was the result of a suppressed domestic market and a drastic cufrency
devaluation, and not of increased internatonal competitiveness or export
orientation. Mexican companies in general had not introduced much-needed
improvements in their competitiveness. In addition, the financial situation of
many companies remained precarious. As a result of the high foreign debt
exposure and the massive devaluations of 1982-83, many companies faced



4
excessive debt/equity ratios and shaply increasee debt serce obligations in
pesos. Furthermore, the supply of adequate financial resources for industral
investment had severely deteriorated with increasing inflation and Government
regulation. Trade opening was expected to put additional major stains on the
financial situation of most industrial firms. The Bank and the GOM agreed
that the poor competitiveness of the industl sector was aggavated by a lack
of adequate long-term financing: the weak fuiancial position of many
entaprises impeded further borrowing, even for promising projects or
markets. The Bank supported the Government's view that, since improving
competitiveness required additional investment in plant, equipment, and
working capital, it was necessary both to improve the availability of financial
services to the industrial sector and to strengthen the financial structure of
individual companies.
9.        As the previous Bank's loans to FONEI had succeeded in
consolidating the trust fund into a mature financial apex institution with a
record of efficient performance, FONEI was chosen as the vehicle for
introducing innovative financial techniques for corporat financial restuctuing
and facilitating cash flows and helping to build up the equity market in
Mexico. The project also aimed at consolidating the long-run institution
building purpose of the four preceding FONEI loans.
10.      The Bank's m ai         in making this fifth loan to FONE
were in line with the previous loans, but put additional emphasis on financial
sector development to help upgrade the competitiveness and efficiency of
Mexican firms during a transition period, through re-estabLishing an important
supply of long-term funds, upgrading the corporate finance capabilities of
participating financial institutions, and setting the stage for possible limited
financial sector restructuring. The IRL aimed at improving the quality, and
broadening the scope, of financial services to medium and large industial
companies. Given the poor financial stucture of many industial companies,
the design of company-specific financial packages covering the long-tem
financing and financial restructuring needs of a company as a whole was of
particular concern, rather than the resource requirements related to a diwrete
equipment investment. The Bank also expected to continue helping FONEI
achieve institutional improvement, including having spillover effects on
commercial banks. Thus, the project specific objectives were:
(i) to adapt lending terms to a high-inflation environment
through the introduction of a new repayment mechanism,



called UpypSi, which essendally capitalizes a major
pordoan of the interest payments, thus reducing the cash
drain on borowers during early maturites;
A) to inoduce on a pi   baus, the use of addidonal
finaal instuments such as equity and quasi-quity (such
as converible bonds and          debt) by the
commercial bakg  stem; and
(ii) to develop coporate finance capabilities within FONEI
in order to offer compr ve financ  packages and to
prvide financia      ur      stance to over-leveraged
but viable compnies.
lle       The effective implenatio  of the Meican policy shift during
the nego     of the IML rised the prspect of an aggravation in the
lquidity squeeze of Meican Industi firms as a result of increased foreign
meaIt  combined with        onom  stblizaon. This led the Bank
and the GOM to conider this loan also   a way to help maintain a
addruy pace in indusial nvestmt during the adjustment period. As the
pon of the Bank in the tal costs of subprojects was esdmaed at
about 50%, the JRL was epected to have an investment impact of at least
US$300 million.
12.       The loa included trtee cm ats:
(i) Crei for equipment and worldng cpital: USS128.5
mllion for ledn thro  rediscounting medium- and long-
tem   bloas by financil i   ears, of which US$50
million was ermarked for permanent worldng capital not
necesaiy assated with plant and equipment investment;
() Equity and quasi-equity inestment: US$20 million for a
pil progrm to  discount equity investment by commercial
bab; and
(Qi) Tecnial assistac  US$1.5 milLion as a complement
to FONE's supply of financidal seavices through: (a)
cosulant services to deveo tining and promotion
programs, (b) finacial market sudies on the long-term
finaing needs and instru     of indusial companies, in
A^ The I? schemenap$itaUses ntwert paymnts. A loan in split into its
indivil    aturitos  for each of these maturities, interest is accumulated
over tl an       d only oce the resective maturity becomes due. Thus
interet    nos          the average outstanding balance in a given period, but
is ace        paid  o  each maturity individually. As a  e.sult, principal
payments in    l tems i          slowly and would therefore correspond better
to the cashflow of an       tent project. To avoid a period without paymets
for the borrowr, a IV  loan dos not carry any grace period.



6
order to develop more comprehensive solutions to the equity
and long-term financing shortage, and (c) assistance in the
design of restructuring plans of final borrowers.
Pect Design and Organization
13.      IRL project preparation started in December 1984 when the GOM
and FONEI showed interest in Bank support to the industrial recovery process.
in Februy 1985 a project was identified jointly with FONEI. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) was ready in October, and initially the project - which
did not contain any policy conditionality - was expected to be negotiated with
the Mexican authorities in December 1985 and presented to the Board in
March 1986. However, the policy shift in Mexico towards stabilization and
trade opening, the consecutive negotiations with the Bank and the JMM, and a
general climate considered as insufficiendy supportive of the project
objectives, resulted in a postponement of this schedule. Subsequently, the IRL
was incorporated in a broader package conditional upon the trade reform
program and upon macroeconomic arrangements with the IMF. The Board
approved the IRL (US$150 million) on July 29, 1986, together with the TPL I
(Ln. 2745-ME, US$500 million) and the Industrial Technology Development
Loan (Ln. 2747-ME, US$48 million), for a package totalling US$698 milion.
14.      Notwithstanding the historic changes takdng place in Mexico's
economic policies, the Bank maintained the project as designed originally, for
a combination of reasons. First of all, the IRL was seen as a complement to
the trade lealizaon    ss since it provided financing for enhancing the
capacity of Madcan industry to adjust to the new trade regime. The inclusion
of working capital financing not associated with plant and equipment
investment was conceived in order to stimulate output through improved
capacity uilization in industry in a context of a globally deflationary policy.
Furthermore the project included the introduction of financial innovations
specially designed for a transition period: a modified form of interest
capitalization and a pilot scheme which was considered necessary to test both
market acceptance and the application of the rules for equity investments. As
the weakness of the financial marloets was considered to be a major
impediment to private sect-led growth in Mexico these innovative features
were considered the main justification for the IRL. The IRL was seen as a
potential first step for preparing fiuther reforms of the finaricial sector, namely
through the technical assistance component, which contemplated deeper
analysis of the financial markets and financial needs of industrial companies.
Finally, the loan was also seen as a contribution to the reduction of the balance
of payments gap in an over-indebted country. On the basis of these arguments,
the loan was thought to conform to the Bank's assistance strategy at that time.



7
15.       There was general agreement between the GOM, FONEI and the
Bank on the purposes and the modalities of the IRL. The GOM and the Bank
shared the two basic assumptions on which the IRL was built: (i) the need for
providing additional long-term fmancial resources to the industrial sector and
(ii) the need for improving the supply of financial &.rvices. In 1984 the
National Program for Development Financing (PROFINADE) was launched
which emphasized the need to form risk capital funds and to foster primary
and secondary equity markets. In early 1985 new legislation was enacted,
which allowed the commercial banks to invest in equity in order to provide
temporary assistance to companies in need of such funding. The pilot equity
component of the IRL was designed in the fmmework of this new legislation.
After an initial period of hesitation, the new repayment mechanism (the PVP)
enjoyed the full support of the Bank and the GOM, as a way to reduce the
liquidity squeeze facing subborrowers when nominal interest rates are very
high.
16.       The existence of the agreement among the parties on the three
components of the loan cannot hide the deep divergences that remained
between the Bank and the GOM about financial reforms and the role of
development banks and trust funds. From 1984 on, the Bank had attempted to
discuss with SHCP the need to address certain deficiencies in the domestic
financial sector, but SHCP was reluctant to allow substantive Bank
involvement in that area considered highly sensitive politically given the recent
nationaLization of the commercial banks by the outgoing Administration in
1982. As a result the Bank had limited up-to-date, first-hand knowledge on
the financial sector and little room for manoeuvre. The above mentioned new
legislation of 1985 was clearly considered by the Bank as insufficient and
overly restrictive. Furthermore, these reforms were effectively reversed by the
GOM in the second half of the same year to meet the funding requirements of
a sharply rising domestic debt. The Bank was also conscious that,
notwithstanding the new legal incentives, the equity market would fail to
attract resources as long as it had to compete with excessive government
borrowing requirements which were driving up market interest rates. The need
to develop a new policy on trust funds (the number of which was considered to
have become unmanageable) which had aggravated the segmentation of the
financial market and the fiscal burden, was supported by the Bank through
signing with the GOM the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA).
17.       The complexity and sensitivity of this situation was seen by the
Bank as an additional reason for supporing a gradualist approach, combining
traditional investment financing with a pilot operation linkd to deeper studies.
It was also reason to support a familiar and proven operating partner (FONE,
that was meant to build up institutional capabilities and to prepare cautiously
for more comprehensive solutions through the studies supported by the loan.



8
The Bank perceived correctly that any significant policy changes had to result
from the government's own studies and intemal diswussion.
18.      The good tack record of the executing agency under previous
Bank loans played an important role in the institutional design of the IRL.
FONEI was seen by fte Bank as its own creaion, going back to 1971, and
was considered a model of its kind. The IML design was therefore similar to
ta of the four preceding operations of the Bank with PONEI: NAPINSA
was the borrower as the financial agent of fte GOM and the GO3M guaranteed
the loan, and was responsible for amor^tion payments to the Bank and
carried the foreign exchange risk. FONEI was the executing agency chared
with allocating the resources of the loan by on-lending project funds through
commercial banks in order to finance their clients' long-term plant, equipment
and worldng capital needs, or to make equity investments. Due to the proven
high quality and experience of FONEI's staff supervising the participating
commercial banks' operations, the Bank did not make use of loan proceeds
conditional upon any Bank prior review of subprojects, but would review only
V post samples of subprojects in excess of US$2 milion. However, as
FONEI's equity financing program was new, the Bank required prior review
of the three first subloans which included an equity component, as wel as all
other equity investments which would exceed 10% of the recipient company's
total capital or US$2 million, whichever was lower.
tect LImplementation
19.       During the three first years of the commitment period acta
disbursements stayed well ahead of SAR estimates, though at a sdower Ste
than planned by PONEI. At the beginning of project iml on, FONB's
credit lines were in direct competition with NAFIs s   progams, which
were slightly cheaper and considered much easier to obtain by potential
borrowers. However, credit tightening durinAg the second half of 1987 and the
continuing shortage of long-term investment credit gave the taditional
component of the project a high appeal. There was litde demand for the
innovative IRL aspects and components, which had been an essential raonale
for the Bank's involvement. It appears there were not enough interest by and
incentives for commercial banks to promote and carry out innovative but
potentially higher risk activities given the strong demand for tditional long-
term financing by financially sound borrowers. As a consequence, over time,
the Bank agreed to requests by FONEI for a substantial reallocation of fumds
from Parts B, C and D of the project (working capital subloans, equity
subloans and technical asstance, resWeclvy) to Part A, investmt subloans.
The Bank agreed to NAFIN's request to exdend the co nt date of the
IRL by a year, to December 31, 1991, in order to permit NAPIN, which had
absorbed several tmst funds including FONEI in 1989, to submit new subloam



9
under the funds which had become available for investment financing, and to
try to use the remaining, albeit reduced, equity component.
20.       The loan was closed on December 31, 1992. The IRL financed
262 sub,loans amounting to a total project cost equivalent to US$307 million,
including 5 sub-loans under the pilot equity component totalling US$5.7
million.
21.       During implementation of the project, reallocation of loan
proceeds followed perceptions of likely demand for resources. In April 1987,
after the closing of the Pollution Control Loan (Ln. 2142-ME) and the
cancellaton of its balancel, FONET proposed a modification of the IRL
allocaion in order to be able to finance future pollution control subprojects.
TheBank agreed to reallocate US$10 million from Part B, for worldng capital
subloans where forecast demand had not materialized, to Part A (investment
subloans) of the MRL, to meet the projected fast growing demand for this ldnd
of project. Demand for FONEI's funds for long-term traditional investment
had proved very strong during 1988, and much higher than expected at the
time of appraisal. Thus, in February 1989, the Bank agreed to shift 3/4 of the
amount reserved for the pilot equity sub-loans, for which hardly any demand
had mateized, to the investment sub-loans category. The technical
assisnce component was not used under the project apparently because the
Bank and FONEI disagreed on the timeliness of FONEI financed training in
corporate finance techniques. Delay by FONEI in undertaking the financial
sector studies was related to the GOM's reluctance at the time to allow the
Bank to get more deeply involved in financial sector issues, but a similar study
was commissioned by FONEI with an international consultant firm using
FONEI's own resources. Later, when the plan was announced for the
absorption of FONET into NAFIN, FONEI technical assistance programs were
effectively abandoned. The funding of technical assistance, NAFIN
contended, could be done under other Bank loans to which it had access and
which supplied them with 100% financing, as against only 50% under the
IRL. In October, 1990, after FONEI's disappearance, the entire technical
asistance component was also transferred to the investment category, with the
intention of NAFIN using these funds for financing pollution control
equipment.
22.       The overall effect of the reallocations resulted in the investment
component, which originally was to have accounted for 52.3% of the IRL,
takdng up 70%; the working capital subloans component was to account for
33% and took up 26%; the equity and quasi-equity pilot was originally set to
2 The Bank agreed not to extend the closing date of this loan because it
carried the historically highest Bank (fixed) interest rate.



10
absorb 13% of available funds and took up 4%. The emerging demand for
investment in pollution equipment was short-lived, due to the economic
recession, the lack of enforcement of pollution standards and the bureaucratic
treatment of even small pollution control equipment loans. Nonetheless, about
US$9 million was disbursed for this purpose to finance 27 subloans.
23.       Thus, the pilot equity component of the IRL was hardly used, and
the addition of the working capital subloan feature was only modestly
successful. The same applies to the promotion of the new repayment system in
traditional subloans (PVP), as well as to the supply of financial restructuring
assistance to over-leveraged companies. Only 5% of the sub-projects of the
IRL (equivalent to 8% of the total amount of the authorized subloans) chose
the innovative PVP option. The development of corporate finance capabilities
within FONEI provided only one case of assistance to over-leveraged
companies. The innovative aspects of the project did not prove to be attractive
to commercial banks who were not willing to take the potentially greater nsks
involved. Clients of FONEI, a large number of which were enterprises in
rge industrial groups, were also not very interested due in part to prevailing
conditions of great economic uncertainty. Moreover, medium-size private
enterprises in Mexico, as indeed in much of Latin America, are known for
their conservative attitudes especially concerning minority equity holdings in
their entexprises.
24.       As part of GOM's effort to increase efficiency of the financial
sector, in June 1989 FONEI (as other existing trst funds for loan and equity
financing and for technical assistance to small scale industry and industhal
parks) was transferred to NAFIN, and shortly thereafter it was fully absorbed
into the bank's operations. The change ir, the role of FONEI, and related
financial system reforms that were taking place, led to substantial uncertainty
among the staff of the two agencies as well as their clients. This ambivalence
stemmed at least in part from the different perspectives of the programs of
FONEI and NAFIN and may also explain part of the difficulties in realizing
the innovative components of the project. In addition, during the first years of
the project, the Bank and FONEI/NAFIN were at loggerheads on the issues of
the adequacy of the promotion by these agencies of the equity pilot scheme and
their bona fide commitment to undertake the analyses viewed by the Bank as
important inputs for the financial sector reforms. The Bank may also have
been well-advised to put more emphasis on formal supervision of the project
(and not mainly of FONEI and NAFIN) in the critical period between
December 1987 and June 1989, and especially on exploring altematives for
successful implementation of the innovative aspects of the project, given that
these aspects had been considered of great importance to the Bank at the time
of loan approval. It is doubtful however that even such concerted efforts could



11
have reversed some of the above mentioned factors explaining the very limited
effective demand for non-traditional financing under the loan.
Project Results
25.       From a resource transfer point of view, the IRL fully achieved its
objective of providing financial support to the targeted group, medium and
large industrial enterprises. While it may be argued that the loan was too small
to have a significant impact, these funds were almost the only source of long-
term credit to Mexican industrialists during the first years of the project.
Thus, even if only marginally, the IRL contributed to helping the industrial
recovery, which began to emerge in 1987. (Annex I) Furthermore, this
transfer was more efficient and useful than previous similar loans (e.g. FONEI
m and IV), since the IRL was implemented in parallel with a coherent set of
major policy reforms. In addition this loan came at the right moment to
compensate for some of the recessionary impact of the economic reforms,
relieving somewhat the financial difficulties of taditional industrial groups.
Lastly, the IRL was a modest piece of the more global role of the Bank to act
as a catalyzing agent for a process of renewed growth by relaxing somewhat
the external constraints and signalling that fresh resources were availble to
trigger increased private investment.
26.       However, from the point a view of the IRL specific task of
contributing to financial market transformation and innovations, the balance is
clearly negative. This leads to the question of the adequacy of the supporting
analysis and design and modalities of this loan. In a way, the changes in the
Bank's country assistance strategy following approval of the IRL gives a clear
answer to this question. Increasing the range and supply of financial services
(a basic assumption on which the IRL was founded) does not provide by itself
a sufficient incentive to create an effective demand for such srvices and help
establish an equity market if the underlying causes of the problem are not
addressed with adequate fiscal and monetary policies and sector and
institutional reforms. Furthermore, even the intended impact of the targeted
credit could be questioned in as much as these subsidized resources risk to be
absorbed by well-established industial groups which tend to have better access
to credit and for which cheaper credit therefore may mainly raise their rents.
27.       The timing of this loan was good from the point of view of the
objective of sustaining manufacturing private investment. The loan played a
role in helping the Mexican authorities to launch their reforms, because the
IRL was by its nature complementary to the structural reforms. The "bridge-
role' of the project during a period of rapid and profound reforms was limited
by its dimensions: US$307 million equivalent corresponds to less than 5% of
annual private investment in this sector. Despite its modest size, the long-term



12
financing aspects of the loan were usefiul for accelerating the changes since, in
providing relief to traditional Mexican industrial groups, they also gave more
room for manoeuvre to the most pro-reform partsa  inside the government
Such aspect gives to the IRL a more "systemic" dimension at appears at first
glance. The resources of the loan were available at the right moment from a
cyclical point of view as well. The project was in operation (October 1986)
when GDP was still declining, with credit to private sector reaching a
minimum in 1988, real interest rates cimbing and long-term contracts almost
non-existent. (Annex II) In October 1988, the GOM sated implementation of
a program of comprehensive financial sector reforms, in parallel with the
completion of the consistent macroeconomic program. The effects of the
changes were dramatic and commercial bank assets increased rapidly after
ee quarters of the IRL were already committed.
28.       An analysis of characteristics of the loan utilization and impact
shows the following: (Part m, Statistical Information)
o   The total cost of the 262 subprojects approved under the IRL
amounts to the equivalent of US$307 million.
o   98% of the projects were presented by existing firms for
expansion, and 89% of the total credit went to large enterprises,
defined as those with value of annual sales over US$2.8 million
(rable 3), but, in contrast with past FONEI operations, the
majority of projects and subloans were relatively small. 53% of
the subloans financed investment projects whose total value was
under US$610,000 and two thirds of the subloans were below
US$600,000. The average subloan under the IRL (US$687,000) is
significantly smaLler than in the previous Bank loans to FONEI
(US$1.1 million under FONEI m and FONEI IV approved in May
1978 and May 1979), and only 20% of the sub-loans were above
US$1 million. (Table 4)
o   Export projects were larger than projects for the domestic market:
the former represent only 44% of the number of projects but 53%
of the amount. (Chart I) These proportions of export projects were
higher than under the previous FONEI m and IV (38% and 29%
respectively of the amount of the loans), reflecting the increasing
export orientation of industry as a result of trade reforms.
O   The geographical, sectoral and commercial bank distributions of
the loan followed epected pattems for the most part. The
traditionally most industrialized regions (Centro, D.F., North-East
and West) absorbed 70% of the loan. able 5) There was a wider
distribution of credit among sectors. The well established but
more domestically oriented metal products and chemical sectors,
which in the previous FONEI loans accounted for over two thirds



13
of the total number and amounts of subloans, accounted for only
23% of the total amount of subloans. Capital goods accounted for
20%, construction for 8%, and textiles and pulp and paper, each
for 7%. (Table 6) The 4 biggest banks accounting for about three
quarters of commercial bank assets, channeled 53% of the
discounted credit. (Table 7)
O    The majority of the subloans (59%) carried a relatively short
maturity (3 to 5 years); only 15% carried a maturity in excess of 7
years. (Table 8)
o    The innovative PVP repayment option was chosen by only 5% of
the subloan recipients, corresponding to 8% of the amount of the
IRL. (Table 8) FONEI financial prqjections assumed that the PVP
option would be used by 50% of the borrowers at the beginning
and would increase to 80% of the commitmer,ts over three years.
O    An important part of the loan (31%) was prepaid. (Chart I1) The
explanation for such high rte of early reimbursement lies partly in
the success of Mexica financial reforms and of the disinflation
process, which reduced the demand for this kdnd of loan as other,
less osdtly sources of long-term credit emerged; and pardy can be
atibuted to the banks' margins increasing in real terms-' as the
re of inflation fell off. These advance payments also point to the
ending of the transition period for which the loan was conceived.
O    A total of 59 subprojects, for a total amount of US$54.7 million,
chose the US dollar opton, i.e., to receive a loan amount in pesos
that is indexed to an approved loan amount denominated in US
dollars. Tbis amounts to 51% of the number of subloans for
exporters and 57% of the amount of subloans.
o    Around 80% of the subprojects had ex-ante economic and financial
rates of    nestim ated toLe between 10% (the eligibility cut-off
rate) and 15%, and 11% of the subprojects were expetd to yield
returns of over 40%. (able 9) In comparison with the ex-ante
estimation of the two previous FONEI loans, these estimates
looked rather low. However, the higher previous evaluations
turned out to be over-esdmates.
29.       The availaility of the necessary data to evaluate the economic
impact of the subloans was seriously affected by the disappearance of PONEI.
NAFIN, as FONET's successor, was unable to provide the data required, in
partiuar the actual ERR and FRR, arguing tht "these files are dead"
(*ficher  muertos!). However, representative Q_.W results were esdmated
,a Margins wer fixed as a percentage of the outstanding subloan amounts and
therefore rose sharply as a percentage of total financial charges during a
pwriod of rapid disinflation.



14
based on a sample of 41 subprojects. These subprojects (Table 10) generated
1,951 new jobs, for a total investment cost of US$53 million. The
employment impact is slightly above the ex-ante evaluation which estimated
1,927 jobs. These figures imply that the average total investment cost of each
job generated was only US$27,225 versus US$63,000 for the previous loan
(FONEI IV). The lower cost per job created may be a reflection of the wider
distribution of the credit arnong industrial sectors and a greater proportion of
investments for balancing of capacity and technology improvements instead of
capacity increases. Based on the sample, the IRL would have created in the
neighborhood of 10,000 jobs.
30.       For the sample of 41 subprojects, the financial results for 1990-
1992 show average annual net profits of 7.2% of sales, with 7 subprojects
(17% of the sample) showing losses and 11 subprojects with net profit above
10% of sales. These results are far better than under the FONEI IV loan,
where 41 % of the subprojects showed losses.
roect Susainability
31.       Although the actual economic and financial benefits of the
subprojects cannot be sufficiently quantified, there are reasons to think that the
resources mobilized through the IRL were efficiently allocated. The reasons
are that: (i) the parallel implementation of the trade reforms allowed
subprojects to be conceived and approved within the framework of the
implementation of a liberal trade regime, and (ii) FONEI evaluation methods
had improved with the previous experiences, and the staff took special care to
assess international competitiveness (project evaluation used international
prices and not domestic ones). The quality of evaluation is r.onfirmed by the
low level of default and arrears for the subloans in spite of increased
competition and very high real ints rates during the initial phase of project
implementation.
32.       In contrast with past projects, the risks for the future are
considerably lower since structual reforms and privatizadon have reduced the
room for discretionary interventions by govemment and the probability of
macroeconomic imbalances.
B]ank Bronn
33.       The positive aspects of project management were its sequencing
and its link with the TPL. Also, paradoxically, the availability of a traditional
directed credit project with all its weaknesses, might have played a marginal
role of "safety net" in the political process of reform decisions. However, the
prepaation of the project was rather superficial. The focus placed in the IRL
on financial engineering and innovation appears essentially to have been the



1S
"icing on the cake" of a traditional directed credit. No fmancial sector
conditionality was contemplated under the loan and the IRL was prepared
without carrying out any substantial financial market analysis. No doubt, the
GOM's reluctance to allow the Bank to get involved in fuiancial miarket
analysis was a major factor. Although the "pilot project" was an excellent
idea, it suffered from inadequate analysis and less than adequate preparation. It
could have been used to improve the level of information and to start working
with the Mexican partners on the actual causes of the lack of long-term and
equity financing. In fact, the issue in both the banking sector and the equity
market was not one of institution-building nor of financial engineering but of
inconrect policy interventions. This argument was raised inside the Bank but
was not pursued sufficiently given the GOM's stance on financial sector
analysis by the Bank. The pilot component seems at the time to have served
mainly to improve the "marketing" of the project, and to continue the previous
policy of "institution building". The technical assistance component was
strategically important, since it would have permitted improvement over time
of the policy dialogue on financial market issues, thus allowing the Bank to get
involved at an earlier stage. However, during project implementation the Bank
could not reach agreement with FONEI and NAFIN on how to use the funds
and FONEI's own study was more limited in scope and was only made
available to the Bank "informally" which did not allow discussion of its
fndings with the Mexican financial sectr authonties.
34.       During that time of the rapidly changing environment, supervision
was not necessarily done by loans but by institution. The Bank's Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3085-ME, Board, May 1989) provided the basis
for development bank restructuing, and changes in NAPIN were closely
watched in the context of the IRL preparation and implementation of the Small
and Medium Scale Industry Loan (Board, 1987). In this broad coverage of
institutional developments, however, supervision of the IRL and especially its
pilot components does not appear to have been adequate to guide their
implementation. The report from the first mission (December 1987)
mentioned the difficulties for FONEI to handle risk capital operations and
financial engineering, which were the main justification of the project, but this
assessment was not followed up with any specific action. One of the studies
under the technical assistance component was contracted out by FONEI to a
consulting firm using FONEI's own resources and without refering to the
Bank, although a Bank mission found that the pr- posals and work program of
the consultant were sound. The December 1987 mission proposed to schedule
the next mission in April/May 1988, in order to assess the progress of the
technical assistance component and to carry out discussions with the
consultant. This mission, however, never took place. Later, after a rather
disappointing study was submitted, Bank action was limited to a few comments
on positive aspects of the consultant's report.



16
35.       The second formal Bank supervision mission for the project was
postponed untl June 1989 (18 months after the first one), and limited to two
days. By that time FONEI had been transferred to NAFIN and the mission
was informed by NAFIN that the executing agency no longer existed, as it was
being absorbed into NAFIN. This event was part of the overall financial
market reforms that the Mexican authorities were putting in place in close
contact with the Bank beginning in late 1988 in the context of the preparation
and implementation of the FSAL. Thus, the risk of merger of the FONEI
with a larger institution was known in the Bank, but there is no evidence of
recommendations on how to handle the impact of these changes on the project,
except to amend the legal text of the Loan in order to reflect the new situation.
It was only after the next mission in June, that the success of "Project
Development Objectives" was shown as doubtful. At that time, 907 of the
loan was committed. The Bank mission in June 1990 requested from NAFIN a
strategy and action plan about equity promotion, to be submitted to the Bank
by the end of August 1990. NAFIN never sent this program, and the Bank
never reacted to this failure of compliance. In addition, there was an
intrruption in the submission to the Bank by NAFIN of the project progress
reports.
36.       Less Leamed. A seies of important lessons can be drawn
from project design, institution building, policy linkages and conditionality,
and project implementation in a rapidly changing environment. The project
was designed when financial sector reforms were at a very early stage of
consideration by Government. The issues involved in the sector had a
heightened political sensitivity as one of the final and controversial acts of the
previous Administration in 1982 was nationalizion of the banks. As it was
felt that the Bank would support reprivatization of the banks and this would
appear to impinge on Mexico's sovereign rights, the GOM did not want Bank
involvement in sectr analysis at this time. This led to a lacuna in available
data on the financial sector and important issues such as the characteristics and
prospects for capital market development, demand for equity instruments by
enterprises and participating financial institutions. For the IRL project, it
meant that the conceptual foundations of the innovative aspects of the project
were not shared equally by all parties. The events during project
implementation suggest however that it was premature politicaUy to try to
enliven a subsectoral assistance program with broader objectives of financial
engineering of companies and caital market development. The Bank tried to
deal with the risks of moving ahead with inadequate data by doing a pilot and
loosely defining the technical assistance that was included to assist in gathering
data in key areas. The lesson is that in cases of uncertainty due to lack of data
and in a rapidly changing environment, risk should be reduced by tight and
clear project design on components that are openly agreed.



17
37.       As regards project design, it was an error to ask FONEI, "for
administrative simplicity", to express the commercial banks' margins as fixed
percentage points rather than as a percentage of Mexico's average cost of
funds index (CPP). This arrangement had perverse effects: the real financial
cost to the borrower decreased with accelerating inflation, and increased as
inflation declined. Thus the success of the macroeconomic stabilization policy
supported by the Bank, led to a wave of advance repayments of IRL subloans.
38.       The experience with institution-building has several important
facets. The key institution in the project (FONEI) had experience and
demonstrated good quality staff in project analysis and supervision. However,
the IRL put a lot of weight on FONEI to perform similarly well in new and
very complicated areas of corporate finance, financial restructurng of
company balance sheets, capital market analysis, and promotion of equity
instruments. Development of new areas of expertse takes time and active
support from experienced professionals as well as sufficient demand for the
new services. The results of the IRL indicate that greater preparation of an
institution, even a good one, is needed prior to piloting innovative programs.
39.      In another area, PONEI's high quality past performance was good
reason for the Bank to continue to support the stitution. However, in the
rapidly changing environment prevailing at t'e time, the consolidation of a
number of the existing trust funds for greater efficiency became a distinct
possibility, which the Bank in principle favored. As FONEI was a relatively
smaRl institution, the probability of it being absorbed by a larger entity was
high and the probability that its programs would be dismantled as also high.
In such cases when developments arise during project implementation to
suggest that substantive changes in the project may be in the offing, the project
should be covered with more attentive supevision to track developments and
to prepare an appropriate response for the project
40.       No financial sector conditions were directly placed on this loan,
although for Board presentation the IRL was associated with a policy-based
loan supporting trade reforms. The lack of conditionality in the IRL was
positive in that it allowed greater flexibility in movement of funds to areas of
high demand. Deeper knowledge of the financial sector would undoubtedly
have helped to formulate appropriate conditionalit aimed at providing more
incentives for implementation of the innovative pilot components which
"justified" the operation at the time.
Borrwe Perfomnance
41.       The performance of FONEI and NAFIN was good in terms of
producing a portfolio of subloans that was economically successful. Taking
into account the genuine economic revolution and the accompanying



18
institutional tumult, the Mexican partners behaved satisfactorily. The quality of
the evaluation/supervision methods and the professional competence of the
NAFIN/FONEI staff are high. NAFIN saved some essential parts of FONET's
skIs.
42.       On the negative side, points deserving mention are:
O   a significant part of FONEI's human capital was lost
o    the Mexican executing agent was in difficulty in carrying out the
financial engineering components of the project but did not
effectively use available technical assistance funds to avail itself of
needed sector analyses or expertise and training, even for future
purposes
o   the duplication of efforts between FONEI and NAFIN was a waste
of resources
o    NAFIN's rationalization process needs to be pursued.
Poect Relationship
43.       The main weakness of the Bank-Borrower relationship was the
lack of preparation for the innovative components of the project and, once
agreed to be included in the project, the lack of resources put into teir
successfil implementation. There were no incentives on either side to look
after the more difficult pilot project component and it was too easy to transfer
the reurces to the traditional component.
Consultinlg Servies
44.       The technical assistance component of the IRL was not used to
fnance the services of an international consulting firm. The preference was to
finance any agreed program of technical assistance under the Industral
Technology Development Project, because it covered 100% of expenditure
versus 50% under the IRL. FONEI paid for one study from its own funds.
lFect Documentation and Do
45.       Following the merger of PONEI into NAFIN's operations, the
data necessary for the ex-post analysis were fragmentary. NAFIN had not
adopted the FONEI .omputer system, since it has its own programs. The
information reportedly is accessible, but producing it requires substantial
efforts from NAFIN, which did not provide it as completely as requested. The
PCR mission was compelled to base its evaluation on the limited information it
could obtain.



PROJECT COCPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2746-ME)
S bacse otMenutd fi Adivt,
S.Icee   Yem 1980-3991
|                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atm Grow  Rotas la b                                          Shte omf cW
.~~~~~~~~~adGi Re.  .                                                                     .      __           _         -_ _     
Momhewtudng wbuor                           19N        981      3982      t983       19U4      19S5      19S6       19S1      198S     1939      1990      1991     1O        193       9 19
Food. bvegge. obseo                                   4.3       4.5       .0.9        .t        3.7       0.05                02        7.S      3.2       2.0     24.6      26.2      25.2
Texi6. and lasdng                            _         5.7       -.t       .3.4       0.9        2.6      .47        4.8      0.        1.9      29       -3.4      13.t     11.6      10.1
Woodpfducbu                                          .-06        -1.2     .32.1       9.0        3.7      -2.9       3.5      -2.6       1.1     -2.4      -1._       43       3.6       3.1
pqgn zdpthag                              .         5.1       0.7       .6.2       4.4        7.5       3.4       16        4.1       7.0     4*5       -1.3       5.       5.9 
Cbem.. abbt ad plast                                   0.6        2.5      .1.6       6.9        5.3      .33        5.4       2.0       9.1      5.2       3.1      14.9     13.1    13.2
NooMeu aim.,J                                .         33        -2.6      -7.6       5.5       7.S       4.5        9.5      -1.6       47       63        1.3       7.0      6.9       6.6
B3ldg                                        .         4.2      -9.3       .6.2      11.6        1.0      .03       11.2       5.2       2.4      7.6      -2.6      6.1       63        5.7
Mebt ptds. *andmnc,;ty                                 9.7      -12.3     -22.3       9.3       13.1     4138        5.9       3.0      11.1     1331      IS.3      213      18.9      23.2
Oat _mafacuea                                        13.1       -3.9     .336       11.2       3.0       -3.4       3.31      42        7.1      t.7      -1.0       2.6      2.4       2.4
TdMemadUAftsng                            .         6.4       -2.7      .7J         5.0       6.0      -5.3        3.0       3.2      7.1       6 0      3.7    100.0    300.0    300.0
S    oaiw,manf.tuin in GDP (S)               22.1      21.6       21.2      20.4      20.7       23.4      21.0      231.      21.7      22.5     22.8      22.9
S3ae.: INEGI
F.4



20
CVART No. 1                          ANEX II
CHANGES IN REAL GDP AND INVESTMENT
(Prcentatge change over Sa'ne quarte)
2S
*to0 - /                       _
*1s~~~~~~~~~~; T:  
CHART No. 2
MONTHLY INFLATION-CETES RATES
(ANNUALID)
,,aso%lSfI            _       
400%1
480%.
180%
5% tl .--- --.
68    87    88a   so    S0    e
-INFLArION -  CETES
CHART No. 3
REAL INTEREST RATES
ONE MONTH CFETS (ANNUALZED)
30%I                    AI
20%/
2%
.     .10%        1AL
" 11    'V JVjJ1
.50%.
8  _ .



21
Unoffial c WI
INDUSTJA RECOVERY BOW=
LQAN 27ME
PRQJEC CQMEPRT
E     ,PARO11.  P8Z= FRM TEE QBORROWISPER
INDEX
L     Background
IL    Project Objectives and Description
m.   Project Results
IV. Project Implementafton
V.   Lessons Leared
- Odigind Spi text amilable in LAC normaten Center -



22
I.    Backdund
I.1   In 1971 the Federal Government decided to create the Fund for
Industrial Equipment (FONEP, entrusted to the Bank of Mexico, with
the purpose of discounting commercial bank's long-term credits that
they granted their clients for viable projects for the creation or
expansion of companies which could meet only one condition: that
they be exporters.
1.2   After 1976, because of the changes in economic policies that allowed
domestic demand to absorb almost all available production of the
companies supported by FONEI, its objective was concentrated on
promoting the concept of efficiency in industry, which was not
necessarily export-oriented. (Before it was thought that only exports
would result in a competitive industry.)
1.3   Almost since its creation, FONEI received financial support from the
World Bank, through different loans, which gradually contributed to
the capital base of the Trust, through capitalizing the proceeds from
recovery of the portfolio.
1.4.  The first loans (one for US$35 million in 1972 and the other for
US$50 million in 1976) contributed to consolidating the Trust and to
establishing a capacity for project evaluation. In spite of the
promotion efforts by FONEI, commercial banks did not develop an
infrastructure of project evaluation at the expected pace, and for this
reason the next two loans from the World Bank (one in the amount of
US$100 million in 1978 and the other for US$175 million in 1979)
were to assist in strengthening the enterprise and commercial banking
capacity to do feasibility studies, not as a requirement to obtain cheap
long-term credit, but as the best tool to establish the basis for resource
allocation and strategic planning of businesses. Additionally, FONEI
received resources from the Bank, as co-executor of programs for
development of capital goods, export promotion and pollution control.
In 1978 FONI established its Technology Development Support
Program based on the view tha: the modernization of the country's
industry should take place not only through the establishment of new
enterprises, but also through the modenization of already established
processes and products. Due to its strength, integrity and continuity,
it became the most notable financial program in the country, since it
included new elements such as cash subsidies for meritorious projects,
credit guarantees, risk coverage to enterprises that use national
technology, cancellation of credit repayment in case the project is not
successful, lower interest rates, as well as the linkage with other
progams and mechanisms of the Fund and access to conditional
credit, whereby the amount repaid by the enterprise was in proportion
to its sales, if any.



23
Based on FONErs experience and prestige and on this program's
accomplishments, the World Bank decided to make a loan for US$48
million, to start implementation in 1979, for FONI to channel the
proceeds for support of national technology development.
II.    Wed  bjectives and De,sn
1. 1  The economic situation faced by the country in 1986, characterized by
persistent inflation, contraction of domestic demand and vulnerability
to external factors, showed more clearly the need for companies, in a
more competitive environment, to develop actions that would allow
resources of all Idnds to be used more efficiently, such as elimination
of subsidies and tansfe  and normalization of production, with the
purpose of being more competitive both in the national and
international markets.
All this, together with the existence of financial constraints, such as
the shortage of domestic savings available, limitated new internal
resources, shortage of bank liquidity, relative scarcity of financial
resources, among others, meant that FONEI's function, as well as its
support schemes, coresponded to the needs of the productive sector
of the economy and to the national policies for financing development
of industry.
I.2  For this reason, the Federal Government decided to provide the Trust
with the necessary resources, through the authorization of
modifications of its General Rules of Operation, as well as the
contracting of financing from the World Bank of US$150 million
(Loan 2746-ME, FONEI V).
1.3  The objective of this financing was to support FONEI's Program to
cat a modern, integrated and competitive industrial sector; to
strengthen the policy of decentralization and regional development; to
protect employment; to preserve the environment, and, to achieve a
better use of natural resources. Based on the efficient work done by
the rust and on the adequacy of its structure and procedures,
FONEI's staff was expected also to persuade banldng institutions on
the merits of integrated project financing.
11.4   Among the innovative aspects proposed by FONEI to incorporate in
this phase of its Program, with the objective of offering integrated
support mechanisms that would correspond to the needs of the
enterprises and that would permit them to grow and consolidate,
should be mentioned: the direct support by FONEI, through
provision of risk capital, and the changes in the Rules of Opemtion so
that its management would be more agile, efficient and adequate in its
procedures and promotion efforts, evaluation, contracting and
supervision of loans. Additionally, it incorporated a varation of
quasi capital" tirough which credits to the financial intermediaries



24
were granted in the total amount that they invested in the capital of an
enterprise and in the purchase of securities that they issued with terms
of not less than five years; it handled subordinated debt and
convertible bonds similarly.
It is worth mentioning the scheme of conditional credits through
which FONEI granted a credit with variable payments at present
value, giving the company the advantage of limiting its periodic
payments to the amount derived from applying a previously
determinedpercentage of its sales. If at the end of the term of credit,
the company had an unpaid balance or, if at any dme during the
effectiveness of the credit this company is declared in suspension of
payments or bankrupt, the debt could be restrucred or cancelled
totally or partally, depending on its perspectives. The company had
to submit periodically a commercializaton program satisfactory to
FONEI and a sales report.
15  The loan in the amount of US$150 million was to be disbursed in six
years, between August 1986 and December 1992, under the following
format: Category (1) US$78.5 million for investment subloans in
fixed assets; Category (2) US$50 million for worlkng capital
subloans; Category (3) US$20 million for the Program of Equity
Loans; and Category (4) US$1.5 million for Technical Assistance.
11.6  The actual disbursements of resources showed the following:
in Umllion
Cateory (1)             104.611
Category (2)            40.680
Category (3)             4.109
TOTAL:            150.000
M.1  The central point of the Industrial Recovery Program was to support
the process of financial recovery of the Mexican industrial sector,
through the ganting of long-term credits in an economic environment
characterized by high infation rates. The availability of this type of
credit allowed the industries supported by the loan proceeds, to
maintain a healthy financial position during the period of economic
destabilization.
11.2  The project reached its objective and it was in great demand when the
Mexican economy suffered inflaton rates higher than 140%, which
crated a difflIcult siuaton (for enterprises) to accept credit that, in
case it was obtained, was at inteest rates of approximately 150%
annually and additionally was to be paid in the short term.



25
m.3  At the end of the eighties, a number of measures for the reorientadon
of the Meican economy were taken, among which were measures to
restructure public finances, inflation control, exchange rate
stabilization, ionalization of public expenditures and the
restructuring of the Mexican financial system itself, which
contemplated the reprivatition of the commercial banks, the
'restructuring and spedalization of the development banks In the
country, which included redefinition of the philosophy of NAFIN as a
development bank and its positon as second tier Bank.
m.4  As a result of such actions, the inflation and interest rates were
reduced to two digits (from 150% to 17% in the 1988-1992 period),
the deficit diminished in the same period from 16% to 1% of Gross
National Product (GNP), as well as the burden of debt service which
was reduced from 11.4% to 5%. This drastic change in the economy
was not reflected in the interest rates of the credits which used
resources of Loan 2746-ME, that in accordance with the contractual
terms and conditions originally agreed upon were kept comparatively
high. This situation was reflected in a high level of prepaid and
cancelled operations during the development of the project.
M11.5  With the resources of the loan, 261 subprojects were supported, which
during the effectiveness of the project, in general tenrs, have
experienced a normal behavior.
During this period, the amount of US$148.7 million was reimbursed
against the loan amount, which conesponds to partial repayments of
the sub-projects.
Also, in what is referred to as cancellations, the amount reached
during the period, was US$22.8 million.
The amount of prepaid opeaons was US$54.6 million, and US$12.5
million for subprojects totally repaid.
m.6  The project was used to support the industrial recry of 189 lage
size companies, 71 medium-size and one small-size company.
From the regional point of view the credit benefited 27 areas, notably
the states of Nuevo Leon, Sonora, Mexico and Puebla.
IV.  Ptoject Im*lMentaton
IV. 1  Eighty percent of the preject was implemented by the now dunct
FONEI, through the opening of credit lines for immediate access of
natonal financial institutions. Tbe commercial banks were
resonsible for the evaluation of subprqjects as well as for
supervison, since they absorbed the financial nsk. FONE  reviewed



26
the documentation that the financial intermediary submitted and
supervised a sample of subprojects.
In recognition of the evaluation capacity of FONEI, the Bank decided
not to establish a 'free limit' on the discounting operations. As per
,the established procedure, Bank supervision missions did not find it
necessary to perfect FONEI's evaluation and supervision methods.
IV.2  In 1989, as a result of structural change of the national financial
system, the development funds which were operating autonomously
(such as FOGAIN, FONBI, FIDEIN and FONEP) were incorporated
into the administrative structure of the Nacional Financiera. These
funds were incorpoated mnto the institution, becoming the current
credit programs opeated by NAPIN.
With this measure, financial intermediaries were offered a unique
window for operations that used to take place with each fund
spartely.
IV.3  With the incorporation of the deelopment funds into the
adminirative structure of the Nacional Financiera, the discount
mecbanisms we  simplified: a unique format of a single sheet was
etablished for operations that fal within the limits allowed to
fnancial intermediaries. For the operations that exceed such limits,
the financial intermediaries were no longer requested to send the
complete files: only an executive summary is required with the
relevant data for the project to be financed. For credits above
M-ex$20,000 million, the financial intermediary should submit a
complete study, whether it is done by the financial intemediary or the
credit applicant as long as it has served as a basis for approving the
crediL (Three zeros were dropped from the Mex$ as of January 1,
1993.)
IV.4  Parallel to the adminnistrave simplifcation, Nacional Financiera has
undertkn severl measures tha have  e purpose of speeding up the
availability of the resources from the financial intennediary in favor
of the entrepreneurs:
a.    Aut is
The financial intermediaries were delegated the possibility to
authorize an automatic discount of credits up to Mex$1,500
milL;on.
b.    24= .Dim=:
With the purpose of speeding up the availability of the
automatic discount, a system was established so that in no
more ta 24 hours the resources are transferred to the



27
intermiaries, and this, at the same time, will make them
available to the entrepreneur.
c.    e  Dism:
Additionally, for the credits that exceed the limits of the bank
and do not exceed Mex$20,000 million, a fast discount process
was established, in which Nacional Financiera responds in a
maximum period of 5 days from the day of receipt of the
discount application.
V.   LessosLa
V.1 It is important to point out that FONBIrs dissolution did not have
major repercussions in project implementation, due to the fact that
more than 90% of the funds were committed and 80% disbursed.
V.2  The incorporation (into NAFIN) of FONErs operational staff in the
project evaluation areas, operations (contracting and rediscount of
credits), supervision and project follow-up and the adoption on the
part of NAPIN of methodologies developed by FONEI to carry out
the tasks mentioned earlier stzrbentd IAAN  inalsimtnJ,
especially in second tier operations, an activity in which FONEI had
acquired great experience.
V.3  The introduction of the new payment methods, called the Payment
System at Present Value (PVP), that adapts the terms of the subloan
in a highly infationary framework, was made to give companies the
opportunity to choose the form of payment which better suited their
cash fow. This allowed them to breath during the learning phase.
Despite FONErs efforts, some bank did not want to adopt this
system, which continues to be incorporated in the Rules of Operations
of the credit support programs of NAFIN.
V.4  Tle pilot program to promote the use of financial instrumts such as
risk capital and quasi-capital was not used by FONEI, basically due to
the following:
(i)   The economic enironment was not appropriat for investment
in projects with long-term maturity, because of the high real
interest rates that existed in fte market;
(ii)   Almost no intemediary bank had units to promote equity
investments, and only recently have step been taken to
integrate such instruments In addition to the fact that
commercial banks never had interest in supporting innons
with high risk.



28
(iv)  Additionally, the companies, at this tme, did not show inest
in the program, due to the slowness of national industry in
adapdng and accepdng these schemes and due to the great
dynamism shown during the last years of the eighties, and
access to the instruments for high yielding financial
investments and high liquidity.
(v)   On the other hand, FONEI's reduced structure did not allow it
a broad coverage in its operations, especially to handle new
instruments. Together with its budgetary constraints, these
factors determined the need for FONEI's incorporation into
the Nacional Financiera.
(vi)  The period of uncetainty created during the fusion of the
deovelpment funds with NAFIN, was relatively short, and as
such was not the cause of difficulty in the promotion of these
instruments. On the other hand, the Equity Loans Program in
NAFIN, was conceived from a different perspective.
V.5 When FONEI was incorporated into NAFIN it was decided that the
resources for the technical assistance component in the amount of
US$1.5 million, should be transferred to the credit category to finance
equipment to control pollution.



29
MEXICO
P-ROJECT COMIA= REfPOR
m m. STAlISTICAL NERMAQIM
TIS  1 t BAsic mm hB
1.1. Related Bank loans
FT of
Approval    Zoan        Loan Title                         Loan amount    Status
(Us million)
1979        1712-MN      4th Industrial Iquipment Fund        125.2       Completed
1982        2142-ME     Capital Goods Industrial Dev.         152.3       Completed
1987        2745-ME     Trade Policy I                        500.0       Completed
2747-ME     Industrial Technology Dev.            48.0        Disbursing
2858-ME     Sm/Nedium scale Ind. IV               100.0       Disbursing
1988        2882-NI     Trade Policy YY                       500.0       Completed
1989        3047-ME      Industrial Restructuring             2S0.0       Disbursing
3086-ME     Pinancial Sector Adjustment          SOO.0        T.A. di$b.
1.2. Project Timetable
item                           Date Planned                   Date Actual
Appraisal Mission Dep.         June 17, 1985                  June 17, 1985
Start of NegotiatLons          December 10, 1985              January 29, 1986
Board Approval                 March 15, 1986                 July 29, 1986
SLgaLng Date                   August 8, 1986                 August 8, 1986
Zffectiveness Date             October 29, 1986               October 29, 1986
Closing Date                   December 31, 1992              December 31, 1992



30
1.3. Loan -bsbursamento
Cumulatlve Eotimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY87     FY80     FY89      PY90      FY91    PY92    FY93
Appraisal estimate         7.0     35.0     74.5    113.5    134.5   147.0  150.0
Actual                    29.1     45.0    115.5    134.8    138.3   148.7  150.0
Actual as % of
estimated                415      129      155       119       103     101    100.0
1.4. Prolect Costs and Financinq
Proiect Financing
(USS million)
sources                   Planned Loan    Revised   Final Comments
Agreement
IBRD
Expenditure Categories
Investment Sub-Loans               78.5    105.0
Working capital Sub-loans          50.0     40.0    Realloc 09/30/87*
Equity Loans                       20.0      5.0    Realloc 02/03/89
Technical Assistance                1.5      0.0    Realloc 10/17/90
TOTAL                             150.0    150.0
*     The Bank, at lAPIN's request, canceled the remaining balance from Loan 2142-ME
(Pollution Control) and agreed to allocate USS 10 million from Ln. 2746-ME for
pollution control projects. This was done with a reallocation from Part B to Part
A of the loan.



31
(in u. of staff weeks)
Task           FY85   FY86  FY87  FY88  FT89  FY90  Fl    P1F92  Total
Preparation   34.0                                                    34.0
A"praisal       2.7  10.5                                             13 . 2
Wegotiations           2.4                                             2.4
Sub-Total      36.7  12.9                                             49.6
supervision                  2.3  11.9   2.4   8.5   4.9    1.3  21.3
Total          36.7  12.9   2.3  11.9   2.4   8.5   4.9   1.3  70.9
;uMt/year   No. of  no. of  Total  Date of
Weeks    staff    weeks   Report
appraisal         Jun 1985     a        4         13.2   Jul 10, 1986
SuperviSion I    DeC 1987      2        3         6.0   Jan 21, 1988
Supervision U    Jun 1989      .4       1         0.3   Aug 17, 1989
Supervision UI    Jun 1990     1        1         1.0   Jul 09, 1990
Supervision IV    Nov 1990     1        1         1.0   Nov 09, 1990
SW/completion    Aug 1992      2        2         4.0   Sep 11, 1992



32
CPRMS3!OZ0N 3303
2012003300 933? PUOJEC
(ZLO 2746-MB)
2mL3 2  zWN air"" (Us D."Uet)
Year        Coammlnt             Dlsbureesente            Cancellationo    Approvals
1985                                                                        3,478,462.0
1986         15781,123.00           1S,S0,014.04                         2,763,a2.00
1987         14,460.124.52          18,266,185.94          3,133,196.57   27,3L1113.00
1988         77,S73,723.61          41,616,557.37          1,763,770.61   83,848,S89.00
1989         34.825,663.00           53,529,101.75         3.750,049.11   12,647,8U.74
1990          7s035,703.47            7,042,326.52         9,768,817.74    6,937,216.65
1991         30,983,449.38           9,445,037.83          1,527,653.57   23,757,609.23
1992            864,862.8l            5,049,776.55         2,845,554.96
To!IL    181,524,669.79         150,000,000.00         22,789,042.56  175,066,3612
source,s     actonal FLnanciera.



32
(sas 2746-l)
UDL3 3 * DIU213U!ON 0 USA3S  UCZPZU3
3.1. 3M of 
New                            5                  2a 
Expansion                   249                  96 %
-__-
Tom                         254                   100 %
I/    canellted Mtoam ar not 1.wlubde
Source t Naciml Ffniurer .
3.2.   ss of eoMnv 1,
m   Of              Monto of
Valuo of Sales -  D$                        eoos               Sboa s
Les         than        160,000              0
161,000     to        1,600,000              0
1,600,001   to        2,600,000             66         26 9    11 I
Over                  2,800,001            16          74 9    69 9
!0!AZ                                      234         100 9   100 9
1/    C ltled tsoas are not IntliC Setso fw totl nm_r of prejeets aid int myv wv sUghtly
due to traufer of Infastlon dwarq uw    of P aId lAPIN.
soue nfal t.



34
miwo
PIMIS 4 a XIII O1F CIS JS UllZ
UMTML mummy OfU
4.1.   San d                  Viifii
Vale. of Total  ject FlnW.e - U IN
Los            thm        153,000              32               12.5 X
153.000        to         305,000              45               18.0 X
305,000        to         610,000              S                23.0 X
610.m00        to       1,220.0                47               18.5 2
1.220,000      to       1,830,000              28               11.0 2
1,80,000       to       3,050,000              21                8.0 2
3,05,000       to       6,100,000              93                5.0 X
6,100,000      to       15.250.000              9                4.0 X
ovor                    15,250,000
TOAL                                                            254         100.0 X
1/     Cometted SMos   not Inclded. Date for tot eru*w of projects an anot may very stightly
do to tanfer of 1nfanti1 dwr,ig mgr of  MI wld  INAFSB.
turcO i Naciaeml tfhwworf.



35
4.20  DistrwOutL  of m_blmas MaW  It
ummber of
Value-of Subloan - US                    auSlg
Less        than        25,000            4          2 6
25,000      to          50,000           11          4 a
50,000      to         100,000           16          7 a
100,000     to         200,000           46         18 6
200,000     to         400t,0o0           64        25 6
400,000     to         600,000           24         10 a
600,000     to       1,000,000           36         14 6
1,000,000   to       2,000,000           30         12 6
2,000,000   to       5,000,000           19          7 6
Over                 5,000,000             2         1 6
!OTiL                              254        100 6
1/    Cmctlled Stlon are not fncluced. Data for total m0sr of projects andnst my vary sltightY
due to transor of inforostfon durfi mnw of FEI n WAIN.
Soc : Naioal Ffnancra.



36
T- n
(Laa 2746-U)
Is= 5s AAB@Uug SUULOEU 31 UDUOf
DaSio                   48                  16           43,055         23
Centro                   32                 12           21,742          12
itetropoltana            10                  4            4,996           3
Sorts                    10                  4            4,455           3
Soret.                   go                 26           53,609          29
Noroests                 23                  9           15,339           9
ociQdents                32                 12           14,928           a
Oriente                  31                 12           19,202          11
Suresto                   7                  3            2,944          2
Total                   261                100           180,270        100
Sources  Sacioal liaaaoiea.



37
I Jsuct "COIMIU     PRO@O
(Loan 2746-M)
iauaS   a flOJBO             UT B U3630T0
NOREC2Mor        w           UEO                   AMMM (u S)
0?P 3u3L0AN3            SUDLOAN ANII!
chemicals &
Petrochemicals             39                     16,395,494.50
Textiles                   19                     l11761,474.82
capital Goods              19                      20,761,758.96
Autoparts                   9                       9.745,395.33
Agroindustrial              4                       5,578,1S4.00
Pulp & Paper               12                     12,106,411.82
Construction               21                      14.290,421.12
zlectric/Ilectronics       11                      7,201,294.92
metal Products &
MechanLcal                 26                      24,228o953.75
Va'ious                   102                      54,4738464.40
2OUL                      262                     176,544,823.62
Source  NaciLonal Pinancelra.



38
PRWOJEC COMLUTZO REPORT
ZDU8NSAE ICOY
IUWS!RIU  NUCOVIR  PROJECT
(Loan 2746-MU)
TAMEA 7: AUTHOXRIZD UEBLOIRS BY FIX1NCIaL I3!ERMUDIARY
Fiaacial1               Ml of              t            AuthodLed                t
LttonuediAxr            8ub1mag                       &Amunt 180o00
AtlantLeo                  S              2                4,738                   3
B.C.H.                    11              4                8,883                   5
Banam3x                  46              17               19,544                  11
lancen                     9              3                5,826                   2
Bancomer                  43             16               22,387                  12
Danoomext                  3              1               10.396                   6
Bancreser                  4              2                1,063                   1
Banorts                   14              5               11,573                   6
comerme:                  25             10               27,228                  15
Confia                     4              2                2,232                   1
CremL                     12              5                4,562                   3
Internacional             20              8               10,227                   6
M.X.X.                     5              2                3,387                   2
Nafin                     10              4                4,715                   3
Promex                     8              3                1,025                   1
serfin                    29             11               27,382                  15
Somex                     10              4               14,919                   8
Otro.                      3              1                  184                   0
Total                    261            100              180,271                 100
Soure:s lacional PinancLera.



39
NOJ3C  COMPLETI aEpO
RECOVERy PROJCT
(Loan 2746-MU)
TAWUS i TEM AND R.AIIUN
6.1.      __m fsula.1
number of
Less than  3 years         10               4 9
3     to    S years       150              59 %
5     to    7 years        56              22l
7     to    9 years        23               e e
Over 9 years                15              6 %
TOTAL                     254              100 %
I/    CancelLed SMto an  not inctuded. Data for total nuor of projects and inots =i vary tighty
dX to trarafor of fnformatfn dring mer of FOIEI and NAFIN.
Swuc t Nacf otal Fnanefr.
a
8.2. tM    of renaymmt
Jl of             l      Authorised        9
I=of reavunt                                      MeanM.ub)roiets  h=Ml I 
Traditlonal             249                95     166,015          92
PVP Option               12                 S      14,255          8
TOTL                    261                100    180,270          100



40
?tila06pi      ECOVER PROJECT
(Laa 2746-NE)
9.L  9.  hIPUC!D W53  OI RETR
Number of
Iub1gAns~
Lose         than         15 %        205            e1l 
is          to           20 %           6            2
20          to           25a             4            2%
25           to           30 %           3            1
30          to            40 %           9            3%
over                      40 %          27           11a
254         100 %
1/    Cm.led Shtom an not ntcuded. Date for total muber of projet wd awmts my vVe slightty
On to tamfe of  ormstm dwtng werr of F.1 ai  SN1O.
Souce  Uhlonl iumowose.
9.2.  9iaakltaeM wtar   fr                U1
Number of
Less         than          s a         201           79 %
15          to           20 %            6            2 %
20          to            25 %           9            4 %
25          to            30 t          10            4 %
30          to           40 %           11            4 %
Over                      40 %          17            7 %i
TOAL                                   254          100 %
I/    Culltted  tloenwe not inluded. Data for total mrbe of project &d ismats my vwy stlghtly
dli to traife of Inmltan iZ   merge of FUEl wd WINI.
sourc t f1efat fPnctra.



LDUST*IALRUCOW*Y 8UO1cr
LON   Nt. 27464W
Tmk It Wle   W:CM IN OPERATION 0990.1992)i
_r_Y             CRED              INVESIMwEN    FINAMAL  IAToRRS I   g E
&AQWINIS         AMOUNS             NPKMS   CouNS  FCINS          Forecast  1Al3
(3.00US$)        03.00US)           (S)      (5)      (S)
OtbwMaem1br*mda8                                     ml..              1304             2071              0.       71.3    14.07           SO      34S
OakobUel                                             SinIml  eoul    2737                4406              9.13    79.46    3.08            so      156
Balic Meuta                                          lorm                 IS              343              4.21    n.9f      5.34            5       22
MuituIvISUV.                                          BCN.               SS4              t037             16.44    30.14    7.34            0        0
Podo. Beeapa.audTcbec.o                               Ier.              IS39              "13             -18.21    86.12   11.2            148      61
ead hadocka MacAPm,M -i   Es,                        IdEp _             1128              2111              4.8    66.38    736             13       I8
Chemical Proudta OilO DwIla Rbberpda                 y _aa               529              666             IO.     60       I3.93            0       34
Food, BDewee NWabuoco                                Va_                 957             3672              13.44    74.44    9.91           S2       56
Food. SaaBna anlTcbco                               Maea..               36               59              6.52    7233    -0.56            20       0
PAp. PerProdcts, Pt                                  Noe  Lreo           345               80              8.28    83.75    19.72            0       0
1baS1 MNtB                                             t       LAW       310              490              3.04    73.79   22.69            114     130
Bak bsMa                                               i, Laos          1832             2704              4.64    68.84    13.6           363      363
edclProduDtd Oa Deeltive% R_bber an Phi.             maxi.               422              1032            16.2S    6538      7.3            42       42
Bea  mab                                             Qe                  365              676              9.46    833i7    4.5I            so   S 7
amiil Podut. OH Dewtve  R          r WAd VAN&$       Idle..              905              1761             0.13    8232    12               20       31
C keeSial P edmv, 0H D3aevea. Rubber and Plaie       Yhraa               393              707              ..39    69.84    4.73             0        0
aM        ,hodia.Oil DaIvaea.Rubberamd P_l&A          Dtae Fda           S15               S10              3.83    79.23    1.87           20       29
Badc Meil                                             QuetA              362               532              7.66    53.38   25.3            34        9
Food. eewae, a"dTOeo                                 ler.                622              loss               6     73.9   13336             30       34
Chemisl P,odmuc  03 Dahutie% Rsober ad Plata         Qaer                422              695           .137.46    9033    54.98            17       28
Wood. aNo wood Plod"t                                son Lou Fh*        277              5549               .56    89.33     9.05           75      102
Woo. am  Wood Producer                               couwr      _          0               113              0.2    736A    1136              0        0
M     -Bumtudv Seevicca                              sown                338              542              14.16    0       86.13            0        0
M         _5aeufts"Vice                              SW=                 948              1481            47A7    59.21   33.04              0        0
Ma _ucaee Sewbc.                                    Naui                It5              229              7.1     75.42    0.45            I        12
Chemca Produc. Oil  Divdive Ruber n PRudla            Ia.oom            1016              1635             4.52    65        225            77       S8
Foo Bersge.ameTdeb.                                  Yaca                131              266              6.02    67.83     2.28            0        0
Fwod, swan" ad Tdwc                                  0lamj0*             252              479              6.39    68.97     8A3            15       t8
Wood. aod Wood p                                      Son  uA"           994               35              14.92    l9.53    5.1           125      110
9sticMetlha                                           Na.. LIoA          208              452              38.4    81.6      4.65           16       16
MetaP alo,tacMim"d    so pitmood                     B.CN.               6C0              986            -35.3     78.21   t2.6             156     1tU-
awmAedhafta, Oi Dutive, Rubbe dad Phdil.             Br-M.              1141              1460            85A       0       11.22            0        0
Mas      eevee                                       Idle..               52              8a               -I.94    75.      2.84           3ts
ChemicalD_ Ia    Oa Dwives, bow NA Hi                mob.               I8               289             .13.87    7.6      8.97            7       13
Caeeka IPt.I ON Dslutves, Rd!bIrIlNW         a       PuMa                27               412               3.94    647   23.3               0       0
1MtaPemdaeta,M.eMmaspai3p3pa                         S3 l.ahyee          139              217            -24.41    98.67   17:J              o        0
CtmIhai     Dc Oi DulZvea Ruber. ad  iN .            be                  195              590              U3.5    2139    16.4            162      169
Me _olprofts."        t _*rdlmquipeu.                Quemb               323              S92              *M      66.97     1.44           22       22
Ihi   lad,8l.  m_ a  U            l                  qeb                32421            509               4.76   8W.A       9.3I            0        0
Wood a      Wood    _ pioNt le                                          1374              352              3.81    63.1      337             0        0                                     F
Num.m.s35. miami.. earepel and coatSent d lithium   Q       .           220               0               14.38    74.79    63            168      1681
TOTAL                                              -87J7                       4920                                              1927    3953                                     3
~ *



CHART 1
Subloans by market of destination
AMOUNT AUTHORIZED ($000)
NO OF SUBLOANS
NATIONAL 84235
..
EXPORT 1 16
EXPORT116                 EXPORT 96.035
Source: Nacional Financiera.



CHART 2
Subloans approved within loan 2746-ME ($000)
Total Ahmun completed
4~~~~~~~~~~~~1.6
..                       ~~~~~~~~7,1%
30,9%
Cnee2.909
60.3%



44
PROJECT COMeLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAI RECOVERY LOAN
(Loan 2746-ME)
1~~~~~
ag~~
I~                     .| 12,2 E::T 17   l  K
8 ,i,glt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



