Docmment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4364-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US9150.0 MILLION
To
NACIONAL FINANCTERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
July 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso 1rc4)
On July 10, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$588.00; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 - Mex$627.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
I hectare (ha) = 10,00D square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms = I metric ton (t) = 0.98 long ton
I liter (1)  =   0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                 Average Cost of Funds (see CPP for Spanish)
BANCOMER            Banco Comercial, S.A.
BANCOMEXT           Banco Nacional de Comercio ExteriDr, S.N.C.
BANPAIS             Banco Nacional del Pais
BdM                 Banco de Mexico [Central Bank]
CEPROFI             Certificado de Promocion Fiscal
CETES               Certificado de Tesoreria
CPP                 Costo Promedio Porcentual (see ACF for English)
EFF                 Extended Fund Facility
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FICORCA             Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiarios
FIRA                Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relacion con la Agricultura
FOGAIN              Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FONEI               Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIRA                General Interest Rate Agreement
[CB                 International Competitive Bidding
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
NAFINSA             Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PEMEX               Petroleos Mexicanos
PRONAFICE           Programa Nacional de Fomento Industrial y Comercio Exterior
PVP                 Sistema de Pagos al Valor Presente
QRs                 Quantitative Restrictions



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
MEICO-
nmusna  conroa
INDUSTRIAL RECO0VERY PROEC
Loan and Project Suuaary
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiary:   Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Amount:         US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Relending
Ten=s:          NAFINSA would pass on loan funds to FONEI on the same terms as
the Bank loan. The Government would repay the principal of the
Bank loan, pay interest, and bear the foreign exchange risk.
FONEI would relend funds tu intermediaries at rates not less
than the average cost of funds to the banking system (CPP) plus
one percentage point. The spread intermediaries would charge on
fixed investment subloans would vary between a minimum of one
and a maximum of four percentage points; there would be no upper
limit on the spreads for working capital subloans. Maturities
would vary between 3 and 13 years for equipment loans, 3 and 7
years for working capital subloans, and 3 and 10 years for the
rediscounting of equity investments. The grace period would not
exceed 3 years for equipment and working capital subloans, and 5
years for the financing of equity investments. FONEI would
offer, as an option, the 'Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor
Presente (PVP)," in order to ease the cash flow of borrowers.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would improve the quality and broaden the
scope of financial services to medium-sized ai;d large private
industrial companies. More specifically, it would: (i) intro-
duce a repayment mechanism for long-term credit, which better
matches debt service with cash generation; (ii) promote develop-
ment of the capital market by introducing, on a pilot basis, the
financing of equity and quasi-equity investments by commercial
banks; and (iii) develop corporate finance capabilities within
FONEI to offer comprehensive financial packages and related
technical assistance.
The project would provide: (i) finance for fixed investment and
working capital, and, as a pilot program for the restructuring
of overleveraged companies, equity and quasi-equity investments,
and (ii) technical assistance to FONEI.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Risks:          The loan is expected to disburse quickly, given FONEI's current
project pipeline and expected industrial Einancing needs.
However, commitments could slow down because of slow economic
recovery or reluctance by financial intermediaries in accepting
new financial instruments that will be introduced under the
proposed project. To minimize these uncertainties, the loan
amount is based on conservative demand estimates, and the amount
allocated to equity finance is relatively small (US$20 million).
Estimated Cost:                                   Local       Foreign        Total
---------  US$ Millions  -------
Equipment Subloans                      70.6         86.4         157.0
Working Capital Subloans                80.0         20.0         100.0
Equity Investments                      22.1         17.9          40.0
Technical Assistance                     2.0          1.0           3.0
TOTAL               174.7
Financing Plan:
World Bank                              24.7        125.3         150.0
FONEI/Goverrment                       104.3          0.0         104.3
Intermediaries/Beneficiaries            45.7          0.0          45.7
TOTAL                 ZLL.  1      AL          320.0
E.timated                                     (Bank FY/US$ Millions)
Disbursemente:
87      88       89       90      91       92      93
Annual          7.0    28.0    39.5    39.0    20.5    13.0    3.0
Cumulative      7.0    35.0    74.5   113.5   134.0   147.0  150.0
Rate of
Return:       Subprojects would have to have FRRs and ERRs of at least 10% in
real terms.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:       No. 5904-ME, dated July 10, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO EACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA), with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States, for the equivalent of US$150 million, to help finance the recovery of
medium-sized and large industrial firms. The loan would be repaid over 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
NAFINSA would pass on loan funds to FONEI on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The Government would repay the principal of the Bank loan, service interest
charges, and bear the foreign exchange risk. FONEI would relend funds to
intermediaries at rates not less than the average cost of funds to the banking
system (ACF), plus one percentage point. The spread intermediaries would
charge on subloans for equipment would vary between a minimum of one and a
maximum of four percentage points; there would be no upper limit on the spread
for working capital subloans. Maturities would vary between 3 and 13 years for
equipment loans, 3 and 7 years for working capital loans, and 3 and 10 years
for financing equity investments. The grace period would not exceed 3 years
for equipment and working capital loans and 5 years for the discounting of
equity investments. FONEI would offer to borrowers, as an option, the "Sistema
de Pagos Variables al Vlalor Presente (?VP)" for the repayment of subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1 /
2.     An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. A new Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to be issued in two or
three months. Recent economic developments and a provisional assessment of the
consequences for Mexico of the recent sharp decline in oil prices are discussed
below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.     Following an inward-looking growth strategy, Mexico experienced some
three decades of high and stable growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. By 1970,
however, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and efficient possibilLties for
import substitution. Against the expectation of rapidly rising petroleum earn-
ings, the Government attempted to foster growth through expansion of public
sector expenditures, rising subsidies, and the protection of high-cost domestic
production. Public sector expenditures as a percent of GDP increased by more
1/ Part I of this Report is identical to that in the President's Report for
the Industrial Technology Development Loan (P-4365-ME).



than half between 1970 and 1976, from 20.9% to 31.9%. In 1976, Mexico expe-
rienced a serious financial and economic crisis. Although an increase in oil
revenues led Mexico to a quick economic recovery in 1977, it also removed the
urgency of policy reforms. Starting in 1980, rapidly rising public expen-
ditures unmatched by revenue growth led to increasing public sector deficits.
While inflation rose, no significant pressure was felt to adjust the exchange
rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative ease of obtaining foreign
finance.
4.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures reached
the unprecedented level of 40.1% of GDP, while the deficit reached nearly 18%
of GDP. In February, as capital flight intensified, the Bank of Mexico stopped
supporting the peso, which then experienced a 40% devaluation in U.S. dollar
terms. A large wage adjustment and continuing slack in the oil market tended
to undo the effects of the devaluation and kept the balance of payments under
strain. Consumer price inflation nearly quadrupled, from 29% in 1981 to 99% in
1982. The international banking community declined to commit new funds to
Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a second devaluation of
35% in August 1982 and the suspension of amortization payments on most of
Mexice's external public debt. Capital flight continued as private sector con-
fidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks in September 1982 and by
the mandatory conversion of U.S. dollar deposits into pesos. Also introduced
were exchange controls and quantitative restrictions (QRs) covering all
imports.
5.     Beginning in late 1982, with the support of an Extended Fund Facility
from the IMF, Mexico undertook a stabilization program based on drastic con-
traction of domestic demand through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary poli-
cy. The peso was depreciated to an unprecedented new low in real terms, and
import controls were tightened. Public sector expenditure in relation to GDP
declined over the period 1983-85, from the high of 40.1% in 1982 to about 33%
by 1985. Non-interest expenditure declined to about 22% of GOP by 1985, a 10-
year low. Public sector investment was cut from about 10% of GDP in the late
1970s to 6.6%, again a 10-year low. Non-interest current expenditure also
declined, though more modestly, and remained still at the levels of the late
1970s. Real wages fell 20-25% between 1982 and 1984. Most public sector
prices were raised in real terms.
6.     The stabilization effort for 1983-84 was impressive.  Imports fell 25%,
non-oil exports (including border industries) rose 40%, and the trade balance
showed unprecedented surpluses in 1983-84. Despite declining oil prices, net
foreign reserves increased from a negative US$2.0 billion to US$6.5 billion
between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. The 1983-84 performance was
hailed by the international financial community as a model for other coun-
tries. A massive foreign debt restructuring was successfully negotiated.
Total net foreign borrowing for the three-year period 1983-85 amounted to
US$4.5 billion, for an actual decline in the overall debt, in real terms, of
about 4%. But the optimistic reaction to Mexico's success in 1983-84 over-
looked the short-term focus of the stabilization program and the absence of
long overdue structural reforms. Optimism turned to disenchantment a year
later, when it became clear that stabilization in the absence of more funda-
mental structural reforms could not restore Mexico's creditworthiness, nor
would sustainable economic growth be possible without such reforms.



- 3 -
7.     Despite tight fiscal and monetary policies, inflation in both 1983 and
1984 turned out to be much higher than had been projected by the authorities,
consumer prices rising by 80% and 59%, respectively. The fiscal deficit fell
substantially in 1983, to 8.5% of GDP, but then leveled off in 1984. GDP fell
in both 19B2 and 1983 (by 0.5% and 5.3%, respectively), and recovered only par-
tially in 1984 (by about 3.5%). GDP per capita by 1984 remained below the lev-
els of 1980, and income per head lower still. By late 1984, as the Government
prepared for the mid-term congressional elections of July 1985, fiscal policy
began to ease, and public sector borrowing increased substantially. Monetary
policy turned accommodating, the exchange rate appreciated further in real
terms, and the fiscal deficit rose well above program targets. The demand-led
growth spurt that resulted, accompanied by higher than projected inflation, was
unsustainable and short-lived.
Recent Developments
8.     Most program  targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit rose to
9.8%, inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10% from
their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of payments deteriorat-
ed. Foreign reserves declined by nearly US$3.5 billion. While external public
debt actually declined during 1985, the domestic debt of the public sector
surged back up toward the level of 1982. As a result, crowding out of the
private sector in the credit markets was severe as the share of the public sec-
tor in total credit reached an unprecedented high, in excess of 75% in 1985.
The brief spurt of GDP growth between mid-1984 and mid-1985 came quickly to a
halt in late 1985.
9.     In response to the emerging new crisis, the Government adopted during
the course of 1985 a series of important corrective measures, including remov-
Ing import licensing requirements from an additional 40% of merchandise im-
ports, thus increasing the share of imports not subject to QRs to 63% of total
imports.   The controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20% in real
terms, and the system of preannounced fixed daily crawl was replaced by a more
flexible managed float. Important economies were announced in the public sec-
tor, including the elimination of some 25,000 full-time positions and plans to
privatize over 230 small state-owned companies. The Government also started to
rationalize parastatal operations. Further, aggressive adjustment of the con-
trolled exchange rate and a consequent narrowing of the margin between the
controlled and free rates, combined with tight domestic credit, brought capital
flight to a virtual halt in late October.
10.    In spite of the reconstruction needs created by the September earth-
quakes (estimated at US$4 billion), the authorities preoared an austere budget
for 1986. This budget signalled the commitment of the Administration to
renewed demand-management efforts to recover internal and external balance and
move on to a sustainable growth path by the late 1980s. The budget aimed at
halving the fiscal deficit to 4.9% of GDP, through sharp cuts in transfers and
subsidies, smaller reductions in public investment, a surcharge on upper-income
taxpayers, and large adjustments in official prices and tariffs. The 1986 pro-
gram also stressed the importance of continuing policies to liberalize trade
and pushing ahead with other major reforms, such as the restructuring/privati-
zation of some parastatal companies and the easing of remaining restrictions to
foreign investment.



11.    However, the recent instability in the world oil markets has dramatical-
ly altered the Government's fiscal and balance of payments targets for 1986.
The 1986 budget that is now being revised will undoubtedly reflect a larger
public sector deficit and larger external financing requirements than original-
ly planned. For the fiscal deficit, part of the loss from oil taxes will be
offset by further trimming of subsidies and public expenditures. Similarly,
the increase in foreign borrowing requirements will be smaller than the actual
drop in oil export receipts, as a result of foreign interest rates, imports,
and the build-up in reserves, all expected to be lower than the original budget
assumptions. Hence the picture for external financing needs, although somewhat
more difficult, should remain manageable, barring further major declines in
Mexico's oil export prospects.
12.    The expectation of lower prices and volume of oil exports for this year,
despite its negative fiscal and balance of payments implications, has not
affected the Administration's resolve to continue with the stabilization cum
structural reform policy. In fact, many of the policy measures/reforms pro-
grammed for 1986--highlighted in the previous paragraph--have already been
addressed. In the area of trade reform, on April 30 the Government announced a
multiyear calendar for the reduction of tariffs. With respect to restructur-
ing/privatization of parastatal enterprises, the authorities have: (i) closed
down the nation's second largest steel plant as part of an overall restructur-
ing plan for the subsector; (ii) closed eight sugar refineries that were un-
profitable; (iii) talarn a first step in getting out of the textile sector by
selling one such enterprise; (iv) sharply curtailed subsidies on food items
marketed by CONTASUPO; (v) drawn up a 10-point plan for the rationalization of
BANRURAL, the nation's largest bank specialized in agricultural lending; and
(vi) put into effect a major law that will set the stage for increased auton-
omy, efficiency, and accountability in public sector enterprises. ,Finally, the
Government has specified investment cuts totalling US$l billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
13.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
remain good, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current
stabilization program accompanied by major structural adjustment policies
(including trade liberalization cum non-oil export promotion and restructuring!
privatization of parastatal companies), private sector confidence is restored,
and the international environment remains reasonably favorable, including open
markets for Mexico's non-oil exports. Restoration of private sector confidence
is crucial, since only a strong and dynamic private sector will be able to
raise investment and production from the present depressed levels and supply
the increasing non-oil export surplus required for the resumption of growth and
the attainment of sound balance of payments prospects. As regards the external
environment, the international financial community should be prepared to
provide financing in support of sound, growth-oriented economic policies.
14.    Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5% a year toward the late 1980s.
However, should a more outward-oriented growth pattern comprising fiscal disci-
pline, improved domestic efficiency, and non-oil export development fail to
materialize, Mexico could enter into a period of prolonged stagnation, charac-
terized by insufficient labor absorption, domestic price distortions, and
continued balance of payments difficulties.



-5
Ixterual Debt and Creditworthinesu
15.    Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$6 bil-
lion during 1983-84, and fell by US$1.5 billion in 1985 to US$92.8 billion.
With an international oil price of US$20/barrel, the net new borrowing require-
ments are expected to average some US$2-3 billion per annum during the remaind-
er of the decade, with the debt service ratio remaining a little over 50%.
With an oil price of US$15/barrel, the net borrowing requirements would be an
average of US$4-5 billion per annum during the same period, while the debt
service ratio would be around an average of 55%.
16.    At the end oE 1985, the Bank's share in Mexico's public debt was 5.1%.
The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external interest payments was 4.3%.
The Bank's exposure in Mexico as of end-1985 amounted to 7.6% of its total. In
view of the expectation that sound economic policies will be pursued in the
future, Mexico is considered creditworthy for this loan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATlONS IN NEXICO 2,
Dank Operations
17.    As of March 31, 1986, Mexico had received 95 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$8.29 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
6L loans totalling US$4.0 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held US$6.63
billion, of which US$2.68 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 40X of Bank
lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20% For industry, 91
for power, and 18% for transportation; the remaining 13% has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training. Annex II containis
a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1986.
18.    Of the US$8.29 billion total lending, about US$4.7 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areus
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises.
19.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly iproved project implementation. Government and Bank
officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater atten-
tion war focussed on project monitoring. As a result of these measures, most
of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily until mid-
1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448 million in
FY82. However, the 1982 financial crisis again caused delays in the provision
of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83 declined to US$389
million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in early 1983 to help
the Government by alIhviating the counterpart funding constraints on develop-
ment projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are receiving support under the
Program. Partly as a resuLt of the SAP, disbursements during FY84 improved
significantly at US$528.87 million, or 35% over disbursements in 1983. The
FY85 disbursement figure is US$787.93 million, 49% over 1984 or 100% over
projected.
2/   Part II of this Report is identical to that in the President's Report for
the Industrial Recovery Loan (P-4364-HE).



-6-
IFC Operations
20.    As of March 31, 1986, IFC had made investment commitments in 27 compa-
nies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$580.2 million had
been sold, repaid, or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank to:
(i) identify investment opportunities which would best suit the needs of the
Mexican private sector in the current phase of the stabilization program, and
(ii) assist the Covernment in reviewing the requirements of the country's capi-
tal markets, both through economic sector work and specific proposals for ven-
ture capital operations. A US$100 million capital goods facility, approved in
1983, has yet to be used, and is, therefore, under review. Subsequently, the
IFC has carried oat three operations in the motor vehicle and cotton seed
business. The provision of foreign exchange and export production have been
the principal objectives of these operations.
Bank Strategy
21.    The Bank's Lajor objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were to:
(a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or indirect-
ly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help reduce
Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks which prevent
rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of Bank assistance to
Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis and a reassessment of the
Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded that: (a) increased Bank
lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be linked to central policy re-
forms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role in assisting Mexico's return
to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for this new role, the Bank has inten-
sified and broadened its economic and sector work. Specific policy reforms
that are presently being pursued through a dialogue with the Mexican Government
cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberali-
zation, rationalization of preferential credit systems, improvement in public
sector pricing, and investment and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending
incorporating project- or sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in
parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro policy issues.
22.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the sec-
tor's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living in
rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector Eor its lending.
The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at: (a) a more effi-
cient and rational use of natural resources to increase production; (b) produc-
tivity improvements of cultivated lands, with omphasis on the productivity of
small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment-generating investments in rural
areas. To support these goals, infrastructure investments in Bank-assisted
projects have been complemented with support services, such as extension, mar-
keting programs, and credit. The Bank has made 10 loans in FYs8O-85 totalling
US$1,566.0 million, for irrigation, rural and agricultural investment projects,
and agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A loan for a Second Tropi-
cal Agricultural Project was approved by the Executive Directors on Harch 4,
1986. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication, forestry, agro-industries, and agricultural credit are in va-
rious stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent years
on the development of rainfed areas.



-7-
23.    Bank lending for industry between FYs80-85 amounted to US$947.3 mil-
lion, covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining, vocational
training, capital goods industries development, and export development. After
the 1982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was approved to assist in Mexico's non-
oil export drive. Based on tho lessons of experience under that sector adjust-
ment operation and broad economic sector work carried out with the Government
recently, a new comprehensive assistance strategy was formulated to guide the
Bank's lending work for industry. This strategy supports: (a) trade policy
reform to move towards greater uniformity of incentives and greater interna-
tional competitiveness; (b) complementary financial sector policies to reverse
ths prolonged contraction experienced by Mexico's financial system, including
its securities market; and (c) measures required to encourage adequate supply
responses, particularly through export promotion and industrial restructuring.
24.    Under the above strategy, the Bank is responding to the current needs of
Mexico's industrial sector. A US$500 million Trade Policy Loan, that has just
been negotiated and would be presented for Board consideration together with
the proposed project, is aimed at supporting the trade liberalization process
through further reform measures and the provision of quick-disbursing finance
that is expected to facilitate the mobilization of commercial bank funds for
Mexico's external financing needs in 1986. A US$48 million Industrial Technol-
ogy Development Loan is also scheduled for distribution to the Board, which
would help support technological innovation at the enterprise level and improve
technology services. The Bank has already appraised a Second Export Develop-
ment Project, which would continue Bank assistance for increased non-oil
exports and policy reforms and provide finance to exporters. In addition,
substantive preparation work has been undertaken to assess the need for finan-
cial and physical restructuring in key industrial sectors and explore the ways
in which the Bank could support both parastatal and private enterprises.
Discussions are most advanced for Fertilizer Sector Adjustment and Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance operations.
25.    Bank lending for trasn--ort has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment outlays
and pricing policies. Between FYs80-85, six loans amounting to US$753.7 mil-
lion were approved, including two in each of the following three subsectors:
highways, railways, and ports. Additional projects to support the above goals
were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYsBO-85, four loans were approved
in the urban sector totalling US$408.5 million, in the fields of water supply
and sewerage and urban development. Two urban projects were recently approved
by the Executive Directors: a Municipal Strengthening and a Solid Waste Pilot
Project. An Earthquake Rehabilitation Project was also approved on March 25,
1986. Additional projects are under consideration in the transport and urban
sectors, aiming at strengthening the various institutions in the areas of
planning, management, and finance.
26.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico through
various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and institutional
reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars on water
supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy, agricultural policy,
industrial development and finance, and macro policy analysis.
27.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling



-8-
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1986.  Over 502 of the total has gone to agri-
cultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education, munici-
pal development, and preinvestment. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated
their assistance on several projects. Each has madc loans for the national
integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and livestock cred-
it, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel development proj-
ects. The IDB is also providing a program of assistance for earthquake
rehabilitation and reconstruction. The Internasional Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22.0 million for a rural develop-
ment project in the State of Oaxaca, which was 2ppraised by the Bank's staff
and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering
the loan.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
strialSector-Background
28.    Over the past three decades, manufacturing developed into one of the
leading sectors of the Mexican economy:  its share in GDP rose from 17% in 1950
to 24% in the early 1980s; manufactured exports grew even faster, now contrib-
uting about 29% to total exports; and the manufacturing sector creates about
13% of all jobs in the country. These growth trends look even more impressive
when taking into account the discovery of huge petroleum reserves, which became
the dominant source of economic growth since the mid-1970s. The composition of
manufacturing had shifted gradually over the years. During the 1960s and early
1970s, manufacturing concentrated on light industrial goods (textiles, apparel,
and wood products), which represented more than two-thirds of manufacturing
value added in 1960. Twenty years later, this share had fallen below 40%,
while the share of heavier industrial products (metal works, machinery, and
equipment) rose from 23% in 1960 to 30% in 1980.
29.    As a result of the economic and financial crisis, however, industrial
growth came to an abrupt halt in 1982. Production dropped 11% from its 1981
level, and gross domestic investment as a proportion of GDP fell from a peak of
29% in 1981 to 16.5% in 1983. Many Mexican companies came close to bank-
ruptcy. To avoid massive defaults, the banks had to reschedule the large-scale
debt of their corporate customers. To alleviate their foreign exchange risk,
the Government set up FICORCA ("Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos de
Cambios") in 1983, with a long-term currency and interest swap mechanism that
enabled private companies to pay their foreign debt in pesos at domestic inter-
est rates and, at the same time, to capitalize a portion of the interest pay-
ments. Government agencies, such as FONEI ("Fondo de Equipamiento Indus-
trial"), provided emergency liquidity to affected companies through special
assistance programs. Also, the Government introduced an accelerated deprecia-
cion scheme allowing a 75% write-off against new investments in 1984 and a 502
write-off in 1985, which continued in 1986.
30.    The industrial sector began to recover in 1984, especially during the
second half of the year. Industrial production grew by 4.8%, as opposed to a
decline of 9% in 1983; manufacturing output rose by 4.7%; and construction
activities also rose by 3.8%. Electricity and cement production were up by



5.9% and 8%, respectively. The recovery was led by a revival of capital goods
and consumer durables, which had suffered particularly severe contractions in
the preceding two years.  Also, a 50% rise of the share of manufactured exports
in total exports in 1984 contributed to growing output. The increases in pro-
duction and exports reduced widespread overcapacity observed over the last two
years, and gave rise to an expansion in fixed capital investments. Recovery
c*ontinued into the first half of 1985, during which the industrial sector grew
at an annualized rate of 9%. In the second half of 1985, however, economic
growth, and with it industrial expansion, slowed down as a result of the
Government's efforts to limit inflationary pressures and restrict public
spending. Industrial growth for the year as a whole was 5%.
Development Constraints
31.    Despite the 1984-85 recovery, however, serious problems remain.  A sud-
den growth in manufactured exports in 1983-84 was the result of a suppressed
domestic market and a drastic currency devaluation, and not of increased
international competitiveness or export orientation. Mexican companies, in
general, have not introduced lasting improvements in their competitiveness. I.
addition, the financial situation of many companies remained precarious: high
financial costs limit profitability, and improvements in liquidity after 1983
have been only temporary, afforded by postponed interest payments under the
FICORCA mechanism.
32.    Insufficient Export Orientation.  Through decades, the Mexican Govern-
ment has fol'u'ed an import-substitution strategy in industrial policies. High
protective barriers, combined with tax breaks and subsidies, have nurtured
domestic industries, many of which are simply not competitive in the world
markets. As a result, the export base in manufacturing has remained limited.
The number of important exporters is small, and most companies view export
ventures only as a residual effort to complement slackening domestic sales.
Manufactured exports have been concentrated in chemicals and petrochemicals, as
well as transport equipment and automotive parts. Diversification is only
beginning now. As 70% of manufactured exports go to the U.S. market, there is
a potential for growth in export possibilities to other markets.
33.    Weak Financial Condition of Firms.  The structural weakness of Mexico's
industrial secLor is compounded by the difficult financial condition of many
enterprises. The massive devaluations sharply increased the debt burden of
companies that had accumulated a high foreign debt exposure. In 1983, for
instance, some 30% of all industrial companies had a debt/equity ratio of more
than 2:1; 10% of the companies had a ratio exceeding 5:1. Although the finan-
cial structure of the industrial sector improved during 1984, many companies
remain financially weak. Recent increases in domestic interest rates further
elevated financial costs. Within the next two years, company liquidity will
deteriorate further, because the grace period under the Government's FICORCA
scheme, which had assumed that industrial growth would recover by 1986, is now
coming to an end.
Government Policies
34.    Recognizing the limits of an import-substitution strategy and Mexico's
limited foreign exchange availability, PRONAFICE, the Government's isndustrial



- 10 -
development plan announced in 1984, emphasizes the need for structural changes
in industry. A first step in this direction was a trade liberalization package
in July 1985, consisting of a reduction in quantitative import restrictions and
a devaluation. Despite this change in the import protection system, the actual
level of effective protection has not been lowered. In some cases, tariffs
have been temporarily increased and ofEicial reference prices introduced in
order to compensate for the loss of quantitative restrictions. But the Govern-
ment has recently announced multiyear calendars for a tariff program signifi-
cantly reducing tariffs by 1988 to 0-30%, for phasing out official reference
prices by end-1987, and for additional quantified reductions in non-tariff bar-
riers, such as quantitative restrictions. Breaking with its economic policy of
the past two decades, Mexico has also applied for membership in the GATT. At
the same time, the Government has already provided further incentives to
exporters, including an expansion of the temporary import scheme, the simplifi-
cation of rebate procedures for the value added tax on imported inputs, the
partial elimination of export permits, the reduction of export taxes, and the
maintenance of a realistic exchange rate.
35.    The Government is aware, however, that these recent measures will have
to be complemented with improvements in financial services to industry and the
financial structure of companies. To be able to compete internationally,
industry will have to invest more in plant, equipment, and working capital.
But many companies with an over leveraged financial structure cannot afford to
borrow because of the high financial costs and negative cash flow created by
high nominal interest rates.  Thus, in addition to a general need for term
credit, many companies require equity, especially enterprises with healthy
operations and good business prospects. But equity finance is not available in
sufficient amounts.
The Financial Sector - Background
36.    Mexico's nationalized banking system comprises the Banco de Mexico (BdM,
the Central Bank), 19 multibanks (general purpose commercial banks), and a num-
ber of development banks, of which two (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., NAFINSA,
and the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, BANCOMEXT) provide financing to
the industrial sector. The commercial banks are sophisticated and efficient
institutions in traditional banking services, but they are highly concentrated:
the two largest multibanks account for almost 50% of total banking assets. Two
banks are still privately held and are operating under "grandfather" clauses.
A number of Government trust funds ("fideicomisos") provide credit, often
through the banking system, to priority activities.  Non-banking financial
services are being offered through the stock exchange with 30 brokerage houses
and 4 independent brokers.
37.    The current institutional setup is the result of drastic changes in
strecture and ownership of Mexico's financial system over the last decade.
Private and mixed-ownership banks numbered 132 in 1978, declining to 76 in
1980, and to 59 in 1981. In September 1982, the commercial banks were nation-
alized, and by year-end, they numbered only 51. The remaining specialized
banks were merged into multibanks in 1983, and currently 19 multibanks are in
operation. At the same time, the number of branches of the nationalized bank-
ing system slowly increased from 3,719 in December 1980 to 4,429 in early 1986.



- 11 -
Development Constraints
38.    Drastic changes in economic environment over the last years also affect-
ed financial sector development. The 1982 debt crisis had a profound impact on
the balance of supply and demand of domestic and foreign financial resources.
In addition, the increases in domestic inflation, from the 15-25% range in the
late 1970s to above 70% currently, contributed to a drastic decline in the
availability of adequate long-term finance. New lending and deposit instru-
ments that are suitable for a high-inflation environment have not been intro-
duced, and the long-term bond and equity markets have remained too small to
serve as an effective complement to commercial bank credit.
39.    Declining Supply of Financial Resources.  Traditionally, only a limited
portion of the resources mobilized through the banking system has been allocat-
ed to industry without restrictions. Until 1984, some 48% of total banking
deposits was subject to reserve requirements of the Banco de Mexico and used to
finance the public sector deficit. Another 27% was directed to official credit
programs, leaving the balance--only 25%--for free lending to interested cus-
tomers. Policy reforms, initiated at the beginning of 1985 to limit Government
access to Central Bank resources and increase the private sector share in com-
mercial bank credit, were effectively reversed in the second half of 1985 to
meet the funding requirements of a sharply rising domestic debt. This has led
to further crowding out of the private sector (para. 44). Horeover, the
deposit base itself has eroded as a result of a persistent disintermediation
process over recent years. The ratio of MI/CDP steadily declined from 1979
(9%) to 1985 (5.5%), and banking system assets declined from 80% of GDP in 1982
to 65% in 1984, and recovered to only 70% in 1985. In addition, access to
incremental foreign borrowing has all but collapsed since 1982.
40.    Lack of Adequate Long-Term Financing.  AS in many high inflation econo-
mies, the availability of long-term finance has declined dramatically in
Mexico. Although the maturity structure of the commercial banks' assets is not
known, a relative decline in long-term deposits shows the increasing difficul-
ties of banks ir funding maturity-matched long-term loans. The shortage of
long-term financing is compounded by the negative cash flow effects of high
nominal interest rates. While many Latin American countries have introduced
indexing to adjust the outstanding principal for inflation, Mexico has opted,
until now, to compensate for inflation through high nominal interest rates.
High nominal interest rates, however, effectively shorten the maturity of a
long-term loan, because the effects of the declining real value of principal
repayments are more than offset by high interest payments. The resulting
repayment stream, if calculated in real terms, implies that most of the loan is
being repaid within two to three years--imposing a debt service burden which
exceeds the cash flow generated by most fixed asset investments. To help over-
come these difficulties FONEI proposed, and the Government agreed, to introduce
a new repayment mechanism for borrowing from commercial banks--"Sistema de
Pagos Variables al Valor Presente (PVP)," the use of which the proposed loan
would encourage (para. 62).
41.    Changing Structure of Real Interest Rates.  Real interest rates have
shown wide fluctuations over the last several years. During 1979 and 1980, the
effective cost of the average term deposit to the commercial banking system,



- 12 -
even if compounded monthly, was negative in real terms: after dropping to
about -5% in 1980, it recovered to 1% in 1981, before plummeting again to a low
of -22% in 1982. Since 1983, however, the average cost of funds (compounded
monthly) to the banking system (ACF) has become positive and reached an annual
average of 5% in 1984 and 6% in 1985. Consequently, interest rates which are
set at or above the ACF have also become positive, averaging about 14% per year
in 1984 and increasing further in 1985. This encouraged financial rather than
productive investments, which will be necessary as industries try to adapt to a
more open trade regime. To maintain a reasonable level of resource mobiliza-
tion through the banking system, Mexico is expected to continue to allow term
deposit rates to be positive in real terms. This should ensure that lending
rates for large- and medium-sized industries are high enough to promote sound
investment decisions. Continued movement towards a more realistic exchange
rate and action to curb the fiscal deficit is central to achieving a
sustainable, but not excessive, level of irterest rates.
42.    Small Size of the Bond and Equity Narkets.  Neither the money nor the
long-term bond markets have yet developed into effective complements to commer-
cial banking credit. Over 90% of the money market is accounted for by CETES
("Certificados de Tesoreria"), which were introduced in 1978. Commercial paper
and bankers' acceptances accounted for the remaining 10% of the money market.
Gross emissions in the bond market totalled a mere Mex$35 billion in 1984
(about US$210 million), with PEMEX's "Petrobonos" accounting for almost 60% of
the total.
43.    Mexico's equity market is still in the early stages of development.  It
is limited to only a few enterprises, and has remained small. Only about 160
companies are currently listed on the stock exchange, representing a decline
from previous years; many registered companies were not actively traded. The
commercial banks, originally holders of sizable equity portfolios, had to sell
off their investments after the 1982 nationalization. The market for private
placements is limited to a few well-known names, but inaccessible to most of
the medium-sized companies. And, venture capital funds that could fill the
institutional gap do not yet exist. The aversion of many Mexican industri-
alists to "go public" appears to be one of the main reasons for the infancy of
the equity market, because it involves the partial surrender of company con-
trol, public scrutiny of financial and operational performance, and increased
exposure to tax auditing. Also, potential investors are reluctant to associate
themselves with companies that are not registered at the stock exchange. To
initiate action for building up the equity market in Mexico, the proposed proj-
ect has been designed to include a pilot equity component that would provide
finance to over leveraged companies, and studies of the long-term financing
needs of industrial enterprises and the factors affecting the supply of equity
(paras. 52-54).
Governent Policies
44.    In a legislative reform of the financial sector in 1985, the Government
took initial steps to fill some of the institutional gaps and clarify the role
of existing financial institutions. In particular, the reform restricted Banco
de Mexico to monetary regulation; limited Government access to credit, thus
forcing the Government increasingly to borrow in the financial market through



- 13 -
CETES; aimed at funding the developing banks through bonds and long-term bor-
rowing from the commercial banks; and confirmed the role of commercial banks as
competitive, profit-oriented institutions. However, the Government's stabili-
zation efforts during the second half of 1985 effectively overrode some of
these reform objectives. To limit credit expansion and force the repatriation
of Mexican capital abroad, the Government froze private sector credit at its
nominal July 1985 level, thus diminishing private sector credit in real terms
and raising marginal reserve requirements to 100%. Changes in the auctioning
process of CETES, and discretionary ceilings set on their yield, have reduced
their market acceptance and further increased direct Banco de Mexico credit to
the Government. The Government is aware that these measures are not sustain-
able in the long run, and is expected to address these issues in the context of
the 1986-87 stabilization and external financing plan.
45.    One of the key objectives of Mexico's financial sector development is
the strengthening of its risk capital markets, thereby improving the financial
structure and growth potential of the industrial sector. The Government has
expressed its commitment to this objective in the National Program for Devel-
opment Financing (PRONAFIDE), launched in 1984. PRONAFIDE, among others,
emphasizes the need to form risk capital funds and to foster the participation
of institutional investors in the primary and secondary equity markets, assign-
ing a leading role to the private sector. To provide special incentives for
the development of the securities markets, capital gains on securities traded
on these markets are tax exempt. While the nationalized commercial banks are
now excluded from the stock brokerage and insurance business, they would have,
through temporary and limited equity investments in industry, an important
promotional and catalytical function in this process, drawing on their long
experience with equity investments as well as their long-standing connections
with private industry. Long-term financing, provided on favorable terms under
the proposed project, would encourage the commercial banks to build up their
equity portfolio within the limits established by the new law (para. 63). The
new financial legislation has also established a legal framework for the opera-
tion of venture capital companies, but some of its provisions are considered as
overly restrictive and the development of this type of institutional investor
is likely to remain limited. Notwithstanding the new incentives, which are
expected to have a significant favorable impact on the supply of equity financ-
ing, the equity market may fail to attract substantial financial resources as
long as it has to compete with a large supply of Government securities, gener-
ally perceived as lower-risk investments and currently yielding high real
interest rates. A planned gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit would,
therefore, make a very important contribution to equity market development.
Bank Assistance
46.    The Bank has assisted Mexico's industrial sector with a number of opera-
tions. Four of these (Lns. 824-, 1205-, 1560-, and 1712-ME) provided term
financing through FONEI. The first three loans are fully disbursed, and the
fourth is expected to be disbursed shortly (para. 56). Subsequently, the Bank
expanded the range of its industrial credit operations with projects addressing
the problems of specific industrial target groups, such as the small- and
medium-sized industry (Lns. 1552-, 1881-, and 2325-HE), capital goods producers
(Ln. 2142-HE), and efforts to reduce environmental contamination (Ln. 2154-
ME). This strategy recognizes that sectoral policy issues and institutional



- 14 -
problems are best addressed through subsectoral assistance programs. While the
first three loans are meeting their objectives, demand for capital goods has
suffered because of the economic crisis, and inadequate enforcement of regula-
tions has resulted in low utilization of credit for pollution control
investments.
47.    Given the current needs of the industrial sector, export development has
become a top priority in the Bankts lending program since 1983. A first Export
Development Project (Ln. 2331-ME) assisted the Government in improving export
incentives, reducing the anti-export bias of policies, and introducing a tempo-
rary import scheme. The loan is now almost fully committed, and is expected to
be disbursed by end-1986.
48.    These operations have focussed on delivery of credit and industrial sec-
tor issues. The Bank's assistance to the financial sector has largely been
concentrated on improvements of individual financial institutions. A broader
approach was initiated through a dialogue with the Government on interest rate
policies, which led to a General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), which commits
the Government to phasing out gradually interest subsidies. Since 1984, all
Bank lending to Mexico involving financial intermediation has been subject to
CIRA's requirements. The proposed project would put additional emphasis on
financial sector development, help reestablish an adequate supply of long-term
funds, and upgrade the corporate banking capabilities of participating finan-
cial institutions. Thus, the project is also expected to set the stage for a
future financial restructuring operation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.    In December 1984, the Government, together with FONEI, showed interest
in Bank support to the industrial recovery process. A credit project was iden-
tified jointly with FONEI in early 1985. A Bank pre-appraisal mission visited
Mexico in April 1985, followed by an appraisal mission in June 1985. Negotia-
tions were held in January 1986; the Mexican delegation was headed by Lic.
Luis Nava Hernandez, NAFINSA Executive Representative in Washington, D.C., and
included Lic. Hector Flores Santana, Manager of IBRD Banking Operations in
NAFINSA, Lic. Jesus Villasenor Gonzalez, Director General of FONEI, and Lic.
Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Chief, Industrial Projects Department of the Secre-
tariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). A Staff Appraisal Report (5904-ME)
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Annex III provides
supplementary data on the project.
Project Objectives
50.    The proposed project is aimed at improving the quality and broadening
the scope of financial services to medium and large industrial companies, which
represent the bulk of FONEI's clientele. Given the over leveraged Einancial
structure of many companies, the availability of comprehensive financial pack-
ages for their long-term needs and of financing instruments that ease their
cash flow in high inflation will be as critical as continued access to tradi-
tional project/equipment financing. In some measure, Mexico's industrial
recovery and return to sustainable growth also depend on such new financing
arrangements. Therefore, the project's objectives would be to:



- 15 -
-   Adapt lending terms to a high-inflation environment through the
introduction of a new repayment mechanism;
-   Promote development of the capital market by introducing, on a pilot
basis, the use of additional financial instruments, such as equity
and quasi-equity, by the commercial banking system; and
-   Develop corporate finance capabilities within FONEI to offer
comprehensive financial packages and provide financial restructuring
assistance to over-leveraged companies.
Project Description and Design
51.    To achieve the above objectives, the project would include financial as
well as technical assistance components. It would provide credit for equipment
and working capital requirements, finance for equity and quasi-equity invest-
ments of industrial enterprises, and a technical assistance program.
52.    Credit for Equipuent and Working Capital.  This would be the project's
largest component, accounting for about 86% of the loan. It would provide
long-tenm financing to industrial enterprises, covering plant improvements or
construction and acquisition of equipment--for which FONEI's clientele has had
the greatest demand in the past, and providing for the long-term working capi-
tal requirements of eligible companies. The inclusion of working capital
financing not associated with plant and equipment investments would, under
currently prevailing circumstances, stimulate output by improved capacity
utilization in industry.
53.    Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments.  A pilot component representing
some 13% of the loan amount would provide finance for the purchase of equity
and quasi-equity instruments by intermediating commercial banks. Such instru-
ments would include, inter alia, common or preferred stock, convertible securi-
ties, or subordinated debt, which could be used either alone or packaged in
combination with debt. Through this pilot component, FONEI would be able to
offer, for the first time, comprehensive financial packages designed to meet
the long-term needs of companies that are operaLionally healthy but suffer from
a weak financial structure and prevailing high financial costs. This project
component, together with the technical assistance program outlined below, would
enable FONEI and the commercial banks to build up institutional capabilities in
comprehensive corporate analysis and financial restructuring. Favorable repay-
ment conditions of equity loans to be financed from the loan would encourage
temporary equity investments and promote a secondary equity market through
incentives of the law regulating the sale of stocks and securities. Given the
recently introduced tax break on capital gains from trading on the equity
market, commercial banks are expected to encourage enterprises in which they
invest to Let listed on the local stock exchlange.
54.    Technical Assistance.  The project's technical assistance component
would be its smallest, accounting for 1% of the loan. It would complement the
provision of finance through: (i) improvements in FONEI's technical capabili-
ties by designing and implementing a promotion campaign and a staff training
and development program, and by upgrading FONEI's internal information and con-
trol systems; (ii) financial market studies, assessing the financial situation



- 16 -
and long-term financing needs of industrial enterprises, the supply of equity
and quasi-equity to the industrial sector, and the use of direct borrowing
instruments (such as bonds) by industrial companies; and (iii) specific assist-
ance in the design of restructuring packages for final borrowers. Consultant
services and computer equipment, including the development of software, would
be financed by the proposed loan.
Executing Agency and Kzperiemce Witb Past Lending
55.    FONEI would be the project executing agency.  Founded in 1971 as a trust
fund of the Banco de Mexico, FONEI has become an important source of industrial
tern lending in Mexico, highly regarded by both commercial banks and the pri-
vate sector. Today, FONEI is administering a wide variety of industrial
financing programs, and it has become an important source of technical assis-
tance, offering training programs for project analysis and supervision. FONEI
has developed guidelines for the design, evaluation, and supervision of proj-
ects for its own use, as well as for the participating financial intermediaries
and borrower companies. Over the years, FONEI has maintained a sound financial
structure and satisfactory operating results: it showed a 28% return on equity
in real terms in 1984, despite an increase of equity's share in its total
assets from 4% in 1979 to 452 in 1984; its total assets grev at 6% per annum
through 1983, but then began to decline in real terms due to high domestic
inflation; FONEI's operation is adequately supervised by a qualified and expe-
rienced staff, as shown, for instance, by a low arrearage affecting only 2.7Z
of its current portfolio--a comendable achievement under current financial and
economic conditions in Mexico.
56.    The Bank has made four loans to FOEI.  In addition, FONEI is partici-
pating as one of the executing agencies in Bank-supported projects for capital
goods development, export promotion, and pollution control. The first two
FONEI loans (US$35 million, 1972; US$50 million, 1976) helped to consolidate
its institution and establish basic project evaluation capabilities. Building
up project appraisal capabilities in the financial intermediaries, however,
turned out to be more difficult than expected, and two subsequent operations
(US$100 milliont 1978; US$175 million, 1979) continued to assist industrial
enterprises and commercial banks in these areas. Loan funds financed sound
subprojects, according to a project performance audit report (PPAR)3/, and had
a substantial foreign exchange and employment impact.
Loan Amount and Terms
57.    A US$150 million loan is proposed, with a maturity of 15 years, includ-
ing 3 years of grace, and the Bank's standard variable interest rate. As in
previous operations with FONEI, NAFINSA would be the Borrower, as an agent of
the Mexican Government; the Government would guarantee the Bank loan. Under
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, NAFINSA would pass on the
proceeds of the loan to FONE0, and formal execution of such arrangements would
be a special condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness. The Government
would repay the principal of the Bank loan and pay interest charges, as a means
of building up FONEI's equity, and would also be responsible for the associated
foreign exchange risk. The recoveries of the loan and the Government's
31 See Report No. 2594-HE of June 29, 1979.



- 17 -
counterpart resources would be accumulated in FONEI to strengthen its financial
base, and FONEI would use these resources for purposes similar to those of the
proposed project.
Financing Plan
58.    The project's cost is estimated at a total of US$300 million equiva-
lent. The proposed US$150 million loan would finance 50% of the costs of eli-
gible equipment and working capital subprojects, which would be committed over
1986-90. As the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$125.3 million,
representing 42% of total costs, the proposed US$150 million loan would also
finance US$24.7 million in local costs. Financing of local costs is justified
in view of Mexico's continued difficulty in stabilizing the public sector's
fiscal performance. Given the Government's commitment to deep cuts in the 1986
budget, the Bank's increased cost sharing would help keep priority investments
on schedule, which is a precondition for sustained growth. The remaining half
of project costs would be covered by FONEI, which would, depending on the
individual subproject, finance up to 90% of subloans made by financial interme-
diaries, as well as from funds provided by the financial intermediaries and
subborrowers.
Relending Terms and Conditions
59.    The project would finance technically, financially, and economically
sound investment subprojects of industrial enterprises. Subprojects would have
to yield financial and economic rates of return of not less than 10% in real
terms. Interest rates charged to final beneficiaries would conform to the
requirements of GIRA. Equity investments would be expected to yield an after
tax return on equity of at least 12% in real terms. FONEI's financing of sub-
projects or equity investments by commercial banks would not exceed US$1O mil-
lion equivalent, when added to any other subloan or equity investment to the
same enterprise.
60.    On-lending Rate of FODEI to Intermediaries.  FONEI would on-lend project
funds to financial intermediaries at an interest rate of not less than ACF plus
one percentage point. This would assure FONEI that it can cover its own
financial costs, including interests on its borrowing from the Banco de Mexico,
as well as its administrative costs in support of the proposed project.
Assuming a rational foreign exchange policy over the medium term, this
on-lending rare also includes an adequate allowance for the foreign exchange
risk to be assumed by the Government. Given the relative openness of Mexico's
financial markets and a generally positive ACF since 1983, an interest rate
based on this index should, in the long run, be equivalent in real terms to
rates prevailing in international financial markets. The proposed on-lending
rate is also in line with the marginal financial costs of commercial banks,
which are estimated to be above the ACF.
61.    On-lending Rate of Intermediaries to Subborrovers.  The financial inter-
mediaries would add to FONEI's on-lending rate an additional spread of at least
one percentage point so that the minimum rate to the final subborrower would be
not less than the ACF plus 2 percentage points, as provided for in GIRA. The
maximum spread that intermediaries could charge on equipment subloans would be



- 18 -
4 percentage points. No maximum would be established for working capital sub-
loans. Variable spreads would be introduced by FONEI for the first time,
allowing the financial intermediaries flexibility in assessing risks and dif-
ferences in creditworthiness, or covering administrative costs associated with
individual clients. More importantly, this mechanism is expected to increase
competition among the intermediaries who would bear the full credit risk of
each subloan made. Linking rates to the ACF is expected to ensure that they
continue to be positive in real terms and broadly in line with rates charged on
other commercial bank lending.
62.    Repayment Mechanism, Maturities, and Crace Periods.  To diminish the
cash flow implications of high nominal interest rates, subborrowers, with the
agreement of their commercial banks, would have the option of choosing the
"traditional" repayment schedule or one based on the PVP scheme. By capital-
izing interest payments, this scheme greatly reduces the cash drain on borrow-
ers during the early part of the maturities. Consequently, it is likely to
induce borrowers to undertake investment projects in the prevailing unfavorable
climate of high nominal interest rates. The maturity of investment and uorking
capital subloans would vary from 3 to 13 years and 3 to 7 years, respectively.
Equity and quasi-equity investments would have maturities ranging between 5 and
10 years. The maximum grace period would be 3 years for equipment and working
capital subloans and 5 years for equity and quasi-equity investments. No grace
period would be granted under PVP subloans, since the initial payments under a
PVP subloan would still be lower than the interest payments during the grace
period of a "traditional" subloan.
63.    Special Conditions for the Equity Component.  To be eligible for financ-
ing, equity and quasi-equity investments would have to be used for purposes
similar to term credit, including plant improvement or construction, acquisi-
tion of equipment, and permanent working capital requirements. Project funds,
however, could not be used for the refinancing of existing debt. Equity in-
vestments by commercial banks to be financed with loan funds would be restrict-
ed to a maximum of 25% of the share capital of any company, and investments
exceeding 10% of a company's capital would not be held for more than five
years, after which the investing commercial bank would have to reduce its equi-
ty holding to below 10% of the company's total equity. This scheduled reduc-
tion would be reflected in the respective subproject proposals and subloanl
investment agreements. The above restrictions not only are in line with cur-
rent legislation and would help keep the risks within reasonable limits, but
they would also promote a secondary equity market. The risk of equity invest-
ments would be borne by the financial intermediary, as FONEI would merely
finance the equity holdings according to agreed guidelines, which are reflected
in FONEI's revised Operating Regulations.
Project IL.. lementatico
64.    FONEI, as the executing agency, would on-lend project funds to partici-
pating commercial banks to finance their clients' long-term plant, equipment,
and working capital needs, or make equity or quasi-equity investments. Commer-
cial banks would be responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision.
FONEI would review the documentation submitted by the commercial bank for sub-



- 19 -
project approval. It would take some five-and-one-half years to implement the
project, and the commitment period for subprojects would end on December 31,
1990.
65.    Except for subloans made to commercial banks under the equity component,
the Bank would not carry out a prior review of subprojects, but would review
samples of subprojects costing in excess of US$2 million. Based on these re-
views, Bank supervision missions would discuss with FONEI changes in the evalu-
ation procedures, if so required. In case a subloan would not have met agreed
eligibility criteria, the Bank would not finance the subproject, and FONEI, if
it had withdrawn funds from the project's Special Account for the purpose,
would be obligated to reimburse the Special Account in the same amount.  The
proposed procedure is justified because FONEI has now become sufficiently expe-
rienced in subproject evaluation and supervision (para. 55) and has a good
track record under previous Bank loans. Under the previous FONEI loan (Ln.
1712-ME), the Bank approved every single subproject proposal, which confirms
FONEI's appraisal capabilities. However, since FONEI's equity financing pro-
gram is new, the Bank would have prior review of the first three equity invest-
ments, as well as all other equity investments which would exceed 10% of the
company's total capital or US$2 million, whichever is lower. FONEI's Operating
Regulations, originally developed with Bank assistance, have now been amended
to help carry out the proposed project and are satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.    Procurement procedures for goods and services financed with loan funds
would comply with those customary for industrial development finance opera-
tions. FONEI has had extensive experience with these Bank requirements, and it
would, during project implementation, ensure the competitiveness of items
procured in terms of price, quality, and their suitability Eor the purposes
intended. Consultants financed from the loan would have qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank, and related equip-
ment would be purchased through local procurement procedures which have been
reviewed and found satisfactory.
67.    To simplify management of the loan account, the Bank would disburse
against 100% of FONEI's loans to financial intermediaries up to 50% of total
investment coBts of borrowers. The Bank would disburse to cover 50X of the
cost of consultant services, staff training, and related computer equipment.
A Special Account with an initial deposit of US$15 million would be established
at NAFINSA to finance the Bank's share of FONEI's operations, thus helping
prompt project execution. Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, and NAFINSA would maintain all sup-
porting documentation and make it available for review upon the Bank's
request. NAFINSA would submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the transac-
tions oE the Special Account. Upon FONEI's request, retroactive financing for
up to US$15 million, accounting for 10% of the loan amount, is recommended for
expenditures incurred after September 30, 1985. This wiLl help bridge FONEI's
financing gap between the date when funds under the previous Bank loan (1712-
ME) were fully committed and when the proposed loan is expected to be signed.
The Government is unable to cover this gap fully because of its fiscal
constraints.



- 20 -
Accounting and Auditing
68.    The accounts of NAFINSA and FONEI, including those kept for the purposes
of the project, the Special Account, and statements of expenditures, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
reports, including an opinion regarding the supporting documentation for dis-
bursements based on statements of expenditure, would be submitted within six
months after the end of NAFINSA's and FONEI's fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
69.    The proposed project is expected to improve the quality and breadth of
financial services available to medium and large industrial companies. Aside
from providing scarce term financing, the project would benefit Mexico's finan-
cial system by introducing a subloan repayment mechanism that is suitable in a
high inElation environment. The pilot equity component would enable FONEI to
offer comprehensive financial packages, covering the long-term financing needs
of its industrial clients. Together with the project's technical assistance
program, they would enable FONEI to establish the financial and institutional
mechanisms required for in-depth corporate financial restructuring that will
have to be addressed through a broader program in the future. By encouraging
the financing of equity by commercial banks, this component will make a modest,
but significant, contribution to the solution of overindebtedness in industry.
Because of their size and intimate knowledge of their clients' business, com-
mercial banks are the only viable source of increased equity investment in the
immediate future. A lasting solution to the financial problems of enterprises
will require the mobilization of savings from other institutions and individ-
uals, and the means for achieving this would be studied under the project's
technical assistance component.
70.    FONEI has developed into a reasonably efficient and mature financial
institution. Therefore, the project presents no special risk concerning the
soundness of the subprojects financed. However, it may take longer than ex-
pected to implement the project if economic recovery is slower than projected
or if the Government would slow down its trade liberalization process, thereby
taking off pressure from the enterprises to modernize. In addition, the extent
to which commercial banks and their clients will use the new financial instru-
ments proposed is uncertain. Although FONEI intends to strongly promote the
new PVP repayment scheme, which--at times of high nominal interest rates--is
more favorable to clients than the traditional repayment methods, they may be
reluctant to respond. The local market for equity is small and relatively
undeveloped in Mexico. This is not expected to change fundamentally during
project implementation, in part because owners of privately held companies may
remain reluctant to allow the recently nationalized commercial banks to hold
shares in their companies, if only for a limited period of time. To deal with
these uncertainties, the loan size has been set for conservative demand projec-
tions, and the US$20 million allocated for equity and quasi-equity instruments
is relatively small. If this allocation proves too optimistic, the Eunds would
be reallocated for traditional credit operations.



- 21 -
PART v - RUOIUKUATIOIS
71.    1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recomend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
July 10, 1986



-22-                                                                 ANE  t
.  PaLe  L of S
T   * L .  1.3
eas hSSWfZIobt tAr    tLI
feaT              iteSu t EN04.to4 
Na l.&una -            VtAV .t*ttW
wms M NUT (          IW)    *                                   204. 27
-,o,uucumouCAnM.u
(KOPL          or OS2 1313 v2000 (ILL).0                      I0 "0.9.
mem  A tL wn=r
I"tA,ttc        FLIS xt A (M LS3 L  7 .0 )LT7.                 99110.0
OWAtIOU        (IVa4N 1.9
POPULATIOS 0W53TM
unR I. a.                           11.          ls.9        15.0                s.0                        4.
Mn    . M. AcGI. UAS                37.          11.4        14.1                91.1                      1o.0
POPULAITUM ACK SRUMUCT (2)
a-s& us                                                                          39J                        11.
0-14 13                            &i.&        '4.'         43..                384                        1.3
-66 1TN                             31.0        &9.9         13.1                31.1                       81.3
65 AM  AsS                           3.3          1.3         3.'                 '.2                        1.L
POUULAflU dm13MI PAT CX
totL                                 3.0          3.2         2.9                 2.                         1.a
1133*3                               '.8          4.*         4.1                 3.4                        1.1
CUS  U11  Atn (IPU  130S)             &1.&         43.b        34.0                3O.9                       U.6
COME OtAIN  IU= (PM 1W )              11.1         9.7          6.9                a.o
CUSS U IUCThON JARS                    14.          3.1         2.2                 3.0                        3.3
FreNE PLuutsn
ACSIPU. AIIL (2U1103                 ..   *    23.1        11439.
113  (10  NASNI  VOllblE)gs         ..          ..          37.0 -S,,...
-    m   CUZYorKamCUm 
tsol1  or FOo    1. PM CAIPTA
(i989-fl-a001                         97.0        100.0       100.0               L09.6                      109.1
PM CAfITA 5019L*0W
CILouUS (S or UOUIU3iSb)           11a.0       114.0        129.0               113.3                      131.3
P-UiUD   (CISA   P  BT)             S .0        I7.0         77.0                49.4                      92.4
oW W N AaLfmAIL MM YU0U            29.0        27.0         25.0 Id             34.2                       34.3
CNIL. (A   t1-) 032M  EAtn            0.7         7.3          3.0                 '.1                       '.7
wanm
LxF  EIp . IC 311  (11AM)            17.0        6.1          65.4                54.3 
tMPAlr MC. ISM  (PO IASM)             93.0        74.0    o     2.0                lb.7                      53.3
rOTAL                               13.5        '9.0 4j      35.                 t.3                        n1
UKIS                  n..                       664 I  oa  etA                    5.5                       Sw.'
UUSM                       *- .3 la                          61.6                76' .. w'
RMU                                  ..         21.0 1       31.0                .4.2                       17.u
ACM SO lxQS Z7.sruL
El Or POPULATTES)
OTL                                  .      .    70 &        35.0                36.3                       5%.6
vUi                                  ..          e.n  H      50.                 73.4                       43.,
lL                                   ..          4.0A        13.0                25.5                       41.6
POPLATS M   MUCUS                   1630.0      1310.           ..              :909.7                     1370.4
POP. PU  SMUS3  ISS                 3630.0      1390.0          ..                0,.5
PM. PU UWOT!AM  MM3
OTAL                               190.0       970  ..                          b2.0                       323.3
MIII                              370.0 it   170.0                            '22.0                      20t.9
MCII.                                .-       370.0          ..               27.                       451.-9.7
mumom  it  IwosuraL m                  ..           .,          ..                 27.5                       :0.0
-S
TOTAL                                3.4           .7         .. 
11OM                                 3.7         ..7
IMUL                                 1.2         3.A          ..
sAC 90. Or ptmaWI/goo
tOTAL                                 .9         2.           ..
11R3*3                               2.6         2.2          ..
lL                                   1.'          3           ..                  ..                        ..
PlCiSTAS W  MMUW.         *IN  te.                                                                             *-
1335                                            U.?
U.AL                                 ..         27J           ...



A%MILEX t
Page   of 6                                                              23 -
r V f4 1. ( la
wVuALI :n-mu -au      r  INW U 
mr                        ae r mtcuii b;U146  A
%COT              'MWU .w"                m9NUS tO ht
[ It         Lail u AL'ta            Lii. anit* A A  M             a'IWUv
mmcr.m
Q8Qwt. u aMwu4U   'EATtGS
nzmss   tWpa                       A0.0       W.0         121.               tUe.;                       u1.
V9                     42.0        MCA         1fl.0              ta3l.3                    1t06.
vuLMa                  '?7.4       102.0       I 9.0              10ia.                      4F.
isac. maL                          11.0        n.o         U.0                 I. '.I
MALA                    kt.J       :2.0         14.0               .9..
PULI.                    4.0        L7.0        -0.0               3.1 n.J
CtIOIL  tS oFr $U3AE                 i3.S         NO.        11.0               12.3                       1.
PdWU-TANM  NAZ
P49IMA                            &A.0         40.0        37.0                 .
f65coloa                           03.3        14.0        II..)               0.1                      19.1
PASxUG  CMSJU1NSw   POP              Z.)        24.1           3 f4 .6.0                                 4
MorI uswmNITm &Aam  FM               4.a        413.1       zwt1.              n1.3                       to.:
TV UCrtluIlrWCam     IPP            tL.5        'A.         109..              II..W L.J
1tu5rl C*t.l  Ou
nsnmaD THlt Ianm                    73.3         ..        Int.,               01.1                      VI.u
C Sea  iitI    aaIjcavtn              9.3         '.9         3.s .              I.a                       2.a
MTA  LAM   R t n tsIaSa           ILLn.a    1u422.0    2U1.0
16AMA (EW!),                        11n        ItS         10.3               13.6                      36.3
LCL?EE inPaur)                     5S4         11.3        33.6               St.                       64
DIIIS (         )                  LI.I         2 11.9     X1  j              1:4.3                     23.3
TAL                                jai         1.3        I-.                 13.3                      -3.1
931                                15L.1       7.4       '4..                11.3                       5.1
IALu E                              L          10.1        1L.9               15.3                      it..
CIaI        nem n    Iat A            t.6S  1     14          i.e                L.A                       0.9
vscut OF      ^^ FILIS
mum K
180c35!X uE     IUSCfOL             i.. 7- t.a              r.u Al .
wiat a0  er   w      sme             . Z7W      i.          1.s lb             .
-mummmt 
PrEI S. ors MAVU Carifa
usa                                 ..          ..          ..                  .                         .
hDa5                                ..          ..          ..               113.3                       .
LA. lu x vs hia)r           :
NPINUr now cmm
gum                                 ..          ..        '11.0 h            319.3
AL                                  ....                  411.0 t            359.7
flUMA P1938. 06O AJbOUUf
7015M! Iflit LYC.L (O)
ltn                                 ........
eta                                 ........
.  lot SILCAL
1a Thm   awrHiu        emS IteatE  -  tdaUstrw4  eetm   agetumc  __. Caumrq  eN mesmll
_mm   Uen Iieen 4nm   a .wLLkLlW et lea _t la _m meNus.
elb  Umaaakmt. anl  tg  fur nir  eNt eas   nagbm.  1919        :9t:  baca :ar 1910' Ium
1909 _  1911; _n  4a  ta  N... las   laC s  baues 1961 amt :933.
Ic  1979  a4 137;  it  5a  te      - Rimy su   mult m      te. /f [SJ  f  1930; f 1961S.
IUL. IEt,S



ANNEX I
-24  -                                           Page 3 of 6
ogFrmOrr s OF SOCIA  mNsCAe                       t
MoN  -: Ahlhoqh et  |1hu dat mt drama fr Om soma 0aualq ju"dged te ms t asirutiv mi wd u    eSntablhe, a        
comnspaa  besar   the 1ako _sadarad Sienna ad conap uW by diffetect canies is collsthms   data The dam In_mS   webto
do enil. n of tmagutude. indimu  hud sb, and charactria majo dutui  betwe  coatneL
The ,fms Swa am 11) the tuse cmutry om Of the 11bje1 cumn  Ad t2) A ceontrY pomP wilh muslmh Insowt swamp incometn thm dhe canry
gom ofthebsa e t   CerH4mp 1f1rHih    eOlC Ehpnartc  ep whet  iddle Inco_ North Afriwaad MWdded Em"schemn btucain ra w    I
weio-tcttmal AaSin. l[a d e  peep dai the avant are ampidtmp miswited aathme  man for uKh iwimter ad iems only when .qan  I
.t IlfltU n    w  hep. data (or thit muidier. Sl thew ceae ecnutm tame mudcatoen depends n tIm awaabibiaty erda  aud is not unties
cawnm  mot be cse ian lamg aesetofon indaoor to moIst The avemp. ae only udid anaempaneg the watduaofmid nctorata unmeamsg
iha coentiyaatat-linpfLm
1-                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AREA (thusan  sq.knnj                                          Crudt 1rr Ra (Mer huassad)-Numher of Ive bir  in the yer
rel-Total sutrfas ar  comprising land area and inland vatems.   per thouand of mid-year populanon: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cd Deah Rate (pier rhhmad)-Nusber of deaths in the yr
.4Arictrad-Estimuta of aiculturl arm usd temporanly or         per thousand of mid-year populatson: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dam
pernanently for crops pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gaes Repwwdcve lae-Average nmuber of daughiter a woman
lie fallow. 190. 1970 and 1982 d:uh                           will bear in her normal reproductive peio  If she eLperiences
preset agespecific ferulity rate: usually five-year averag  endmng
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimatn at currens        in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market pIce  caIcuated by sait converion method as World         r,  l Ws-Accprws. A.._d (frlernmde-Aonual num-
Bak A tm (1 981-83 basis); 1913 data.                          ber of accptors of birth-control devnces under aspices of natonal
ENERGY CONSUMPlION  PER CAPITA-Annual appaent                  family planning progam.
consumption ol commercial pnmary enar  (coa and ligmte,        Feedy Pim_u*t-ses (        tCei of msmnIe noeume-The pern-
petroleum, natural ps and hydra-. nuclar ad gothermal decI     tale of manied women or child-bing ag who are pacicing or
tncity) in kilorams of oil equivalet per capita 1960. 1970. and  whose busbands are pratcing any form of contcrceptio. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-beanrg age ane eneally women aged 15-49. although for
soe  countries contraceptive uG   is  easured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIMCS                                  groupL
reed Pte;pueeie. MM-TYea (rhuwsaa -As orJuly 1: 1960.1970.     FOOD AND NwrlMON
and 1983 data.
Vrbsu  opLfmdx lpffm  of   &O-Rato of ubait t tot linAr of Feed PRdwmdara Per Capita (1149-Ti - IW30-Index of per
Vale. Fapedeaie. (parrot at welt-Ratio of urban rt total       capita annua producto  of all food commodities. Production
population different definitions of urban areas may afect comper-  cxdudes anal reed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries: 150. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primruy commodie (eg. soparie instead of supr)
-o,        ; herisem                                           which ate edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coree and ta ar
Populati  n yr 2000-The projection of population for 200o      excludedf, the7 compne creals. root  os pulse  oil seed
made for ech economy sepately. Starting witb information on    vegetables, fruits nu. sugra  and sugar beet. liveock. and
total population by age and sea, fertility rtes mortality rates, and  livestock productL Aggirac production of esch country is based
international migration in dhe bas year 1910. tdew prame       on national avae   producer ptice weights 1961465. 1970. and
were projected at rfve-year interials on the basi of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population becam  suas ary.              Per Cape. SEppN ef CubraS (parao epaquamren-Comput-
Stadonaw  popudon-4 one in which age- and ses-specific mor-    ed fron caloriequvalent of net food spples avalabk in country
tality rates have not chanpd over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domesic produc-
fertility rtas have simultaneously remained at relcement level  non, imports lss exports and chages in stock. Net supplie
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a populaton. the birth rte is  exclude animal feed seeds for use is agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the det rate the age structure is also   food proLessing, and losses in distrihution. Requenmnets were
constant, and the growth rate is zeo. The stationry population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sue was estimated on the bsis of the projected charaterics of  and heath considering environmental temperature. body weghts.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing IO petcent for
rate to replacement leveL                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
op..ulaim MArnennan-ls the tendcy ror populaon grwth to        AV Caps. SW*  .1 Await (paper den-Protein contes of
connmue beyond dte time that replaceet-kvd  rtuity hu bem      per capita not supply of food per day. Net supply of fod is defned
achined: that iL eVen after the net reproducton ra  hu eached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum ol a populaton in the year t a meaured as  provide for minaum allowances of 60 grams of toui protein per
a rtio of the ultimate staionary population to the population in  day and 20 pms of animal and pulse proteiL of which 10 gtans
the year r, give the asumptiok that frity remun at replace-    should be animl protein Thme standards are lowe than those of
mesm bv2l firom year  onwan. 1985 data.                         5  amof toul protein and 23  ams of animal protein as u
-_  D ry                                                       average or the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJknt.-Mid-year population per square kilomneer (100 be   Supply- 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
sa) of total arc: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                    Per Cas heie Supply ron Aa4d         d Puie-Protein supply
Par sqJa. agrnwd lam-/Computed as above for agricultural       of food derived from animals and puls  in grms per day, 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data                           1970 and 1977 dat
fop.hda Age Samwa (fpHarn-Cbilds (0-14 years) work-            CAiW ld ts-i) Deat Rate (pa th..n)- Number of deaths of
ingagap (15-64 yes). and rtired (65 yea  and aovr) as  ige     children aged 1-4 yer per thousand chiklren in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 duL               group is a givn year. For most developing countis data derived
pAtimm  rwth Naw (pdeenty-tat-n tual growth rates of           from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 dat
totl mid-year population for 19560. 1961070. and 1970-83.      HEAL3H
pofpmlei Crowd Ra  (pierciemurk-w-Annul growth rates           Life Eqecmy at Mr  (Jswfl-Nurnber of yam   n eborn
of urba populion for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        inrt would live if prevailing patter  of mlortaity for al people



EX                                                    -25
Pag;e l of 6
at the ume of of itJ  no were to slaY thde sat throuhout its lire  RP-rewr Ratio - ruar. aid  coeut.Tornl iudents en
960, 1970 au  1913 dar.                                       rolld in primary And secondury levels divided by number of
laufa W1r4 alfy Raw (Pdr thuuasmd)-Number of infants who die    tr2chm io the corresponding 1l
befon: tcking ane year o ag per thousand live birt  in a lpvc
yS:  1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                 CONSUMPTlON
.4eers ao*  lr   t (Pflhlf 4 pmkii,-l.ti-        _ iltS, iN   Phssnq  Cm, (par thosnd papaiaon 0-P2ssennger :an comf
reid-umber ato (peopl(taL urbaaWndul) witosh rasonale           r  motor cars seattng les than eight persons; tActudesun moul-
acCs to afe waer supply. uInclude treated nuacn warm  or      4ces. heares and miltiarv vehicles.
unUwratd but unoutaii       wast such a char fom protectedn
uve      spnlp aniid Ui.rr7  Wnlb l as perentaces ofL thor raps-  ror radio broadcasts to general public per thouand ai popuiarion:
ive populaions In an urb   a   m a pub   ounmay or be 1npOSd  ecluda  un-licensed rcCiverS us counrICs and in yea"s wten
ios ted ntN more than 200 met from a hoe   y be cnuaid r      regIstion of radio tme was in effect data for recmnt vers may
rusoenga ihnrsoble a      ma ouduni  of dial boweornmme. nrua aof th    to comparabke suince most countneie abolished licens-ing.
reasonabe a     wouid simply dhii dhe housewife Ot menber ofldie
houselhald do not hae to spt a dispropottionse patt of the day  w R"'i' 4pf th"iadpaptis    -TV ravwens for broadcast
in fetching the fainly s waur needs.                          tO Piti pubLic per thousand populauton: cxcude unlicensed TV
dceems to EXCrM   Dispered (pe  of lpfpopoehdn-rret. m.Aam    reivm m countnes and n yean wren mestrmuon of TV #Us uas
and  ad-N umber of people itoaL urban, andrn)serveby          in effect
excret disposal as pertettg  of their nespe9cve popuWaltons      `        CnnC1lee Ipe gltred populsowi-Shows the aver-
Eaert disposal may inldude the collecuon uan disposaL with o  age aculation oa -'day genal in t ncwpaper deined as a
without trestmuenL of human ert and wart-water by waner-      perdical publication dvoted pnmanly to rcording generl nem.
borne sysms or the us of pit pnins and simdiar insaluationa   It is consieed to be daly- if it ppean at lest four imes a weekL
POPuiSm Per PhYljsud-Populanon divided by number of pmu.      Ctsn AnaudA .dAendaare Fe Capia par Ye-Based on the
rising physici  qualified fromut amre   school at wuvmq Isel.  number of rickets sold dunng the year. including adrlions to
Pbi      Pdeu ,u'  i-   Pm-M-YPopulauo   divwed bs numba of   drve-in cemmia mad mobile units.
pracuang male and r ams gaduate nurse  assitant nUrs.o
pra=  aunus andl numrng auuswl.                               LABR  FORCI:
Pracaa nur e saG nursing aiia1es.1               *etw-n.pulaw on      a, foers (ihlonam -Economically ctve persons, in-
(totaL urban and  ural) divided by dwrr   pectv  number of    duding armed fors and unnployed but aecluding touwiveg.
hosptA bes avuabbletAn public and pnv.general dspt  lid       students,  c., covmng populaton of al ages. Definirions in
hospitals Ad mhabitulon tem  Hospitls are esibfishmzen        varinas conauns a  not comparablc 1960. 1970 and 1933 dara,
permanent slalled by at kast one physcn Establismes prWy    FRiNSe f ereeri-Fenalc labor force as percentage of tow labor
idling pirinpally custodical care a e norcluded. Rurl hospitals  ltn
however. inlude health and media cente  not penntly scated   .4,vka   f(pvowj-labor farm ui farmng. forescry. hunung
by a physia (but by a medical Assisentrmus midwier  c.)       and fishim  as percentaje of total labor fote 1960. 1970 and 1910
which oiler in-patiet accommod_i and provide a limited range  dataL
of medicl facriL                                              i.e...  'perwJ-Lubor rone in mimng. conswtucion. nantu-
Adaissiou par Huisapt Bed-Total aunber of admisions to or     factuing and eltrcity,. watr and ga as petcentage of totl labor
dishbuage from hospitls divided by the number of beds         force: 1960. 1970 and 1910 dat.
HhISIGu.-   A  4 m  -t. .-d, adfaa-mP        raciparaon
HOUSINIG                                                      or acvity rats ar computed as wtL malt and ra  labor fone
_y-W Sir o f Hauclml (peos per heseheldJ--rw islam.           as percentages of total male and reaLe populaton of aLI ages
iAswao-A housloldconsugolagroupoftndividualswhosha            rspectidey 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based in I LO's
ling qun  and diew man mealL A boarder or lodlr may or        parndpanon rr refeting age-sm strucure of the populaton, and
may not be mclded in the houshold for stuatil purpea.         long rime trend. A r  estimates wre   national souwc
AS.g. y.-b  4 f  z          pRae-ieee  wham and inS-           ECO.Wil Depedeep Raisu-Ruo of populauon under 15. and
Avenge number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to rhe working age population Ithose aged 15i641.
occupied conentional dwlling  apvely. Dwellinp cude
notn-purmanast stnuctum and unoccupied pas.                   INCOME DISTRIBuTION
Venutqe of o"caep wt Elcteiy-etAdm ad awed-_    hrrewqc Of ra>i Disas  Iwzwr  frhr in rwh ad kiadj-
Conennoai dweling.pwith eleceuelhy in livng quartern  pen-    Accruing to peule groups oi houshOlds ranked by totl house-
rag of totaL urban, and ru  dwelinp respectivl.               hold income
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
.4_sv  Eiwolrarc R_am                                         The folowing estima  a  very approximat measu  of poverty
hAm'w sdco  - real. -de ad fans-Gross totaL mak =d           Ilcel and sould be interprted wt[h considerble caution.
femle enrolment of al ags at the primary klv a perinnges of  Eatimetd sabwe Pbwry tnoe Level (U1$5 pFe capirea_4wh
rapove primary schol-a  popuions While  ny counutmnr          s.m  rw4-Absolute poverty incne Eevel is tht Income level
considr pmuary school age to be 6-Il yHas othes do not The    belo  whi=  a Mmunal ournuonaliv adequtme diet plus senual
dalecrizcc un country pracc an dhe age and dimuoa of shool    non-Cood requir,ements is not affordable.
are rlected tn the ratios gin For some countries with univerna  Edn& cd REhAi  Pay Incomae LAe rUS par ceapwa -she
education, gr    oament may exced 100 pemit -m  omme           ad nel-Rural retatve poverty income levei Is one-third of
pupis are bdow or above che country's sundard primary-school  averge per captit pesoal income of the coitmtv. Urban level is
ag.                                                           derved from che rural level with d4ustmeut for higher cost of
Secodary school  routd sat ard femrk-Compured as abov;        living in urban areas.
secondary educaon requires a& L= rout wean of- approved paa o ,sere Pbt lnr. L                                     p-
Mary mn;lto  provie generaL .vctnonttal. or terew traJimg     cans-_i-ame and riolest- Peent o popuatiUon I urban and rural
instrmucca  for pupis usualy of 12 to 17 yeas of ag  correspond-  woo an  abwlt poor."
cit caues ae geady  cldudeud
Vocanu  Ewoibhnr 'pere  ofnondarva-Voc:ruonal instmuti                  Comparative Analyss and Data Division
tIoIs Iaclude technil industaL or o0d  programs which operate         Econtomic Analvsis and Projections Deparnment
rdepndendy or a deparusac. of secondary insunulOJu June 1985



- 26 -                                                                            _lI
ICo .f                        MM, au                                                     "Mi _1 .
1"       1 km              11 1O lo             U lt  1111 11 m       lfittt   1131^1 81h lmn- 
OFIVt  altt                                            ll to  "11", a  *IUI  .
1"                                              q.31   IL I   ft 1.n   1111.14   XLII   1111n 11                 na *91       *.s               *.,,                     1"  n 11           1z
as  w   iw    mm                 _ I            -t .31    -LO         LO     1.0          -LI    11.0   -d       -.l44                                                     4.1          P.  *       F 4.11
m                                               IL%"   13111   t1.3         Wall  191.t    It41.t1  10.3    IU- m11 n                   ."     -1.2                       In." It 1.4  1 Il.
wU* .litL  Wm911                                   W        4n      2.17    2.         11.11    ILN      13i4   r,3           103    -3.1                           9*9     16.91      L 
umM         l ntL   no                            tLU    tL."    Z.n        2 .^1    )L.-   11-.n    ILS         1n.18        L       11.11     5.11                        1.36    IL"      31-3
IIm=    WAR                                     4.4    -1. "       n.3    -6.16     8.    11.1n4                   .            ..6  .71                                   ..       . 1.        .
UN_l-                        t          l         .31   WIN    1 4tl   l^t91   111.11  U1 D3   14162    101"7                67   r';             -.,         r            W.e   ".a n 2r.e
lm     t                                        ]LA      Y1.p1   61.11       1.44     Q   1    1.11    Rt."    n:n           *.36     *.34         4.91                   n.3k   2I.N         LP
__l              Wmt                            IL.a      %.Al    .4.   46-A    *@.s    l               46-9    *Z31         -1.1     It."          *s.71,                 11wn    21.n    n2.3r
141  4ctIn IN=1t                                -1.1o    -2.tN4    -4.11 t    P IS    I.n3   *1In*   -IL3n         un.1      14.tit   lo."   *111 rA.3 n                             I& 16 *11   i
StIllwo, mm                                                                                                                                               ---m- mi   mummu m
ZIN ,titt                                        13.1@    17.ttt   15.3h    16.11    16.2      I&.t0   1t,  1t il            l.Jt     * tS     1.41                        1-1      Ln. Gt.   111
ImrT"   *EI now                                   1.77   (41.tt4   Mt.4l    11.lC     n.16     h0.C     FLI      n.^          1.0      IIAI        LA                      12.9     173         U. n   6
mielM                                            Yl.46    ".0    InSt11   IM14.n   A?.        Is La    Iff.13   ALw"          ntt        11    .  4I           n. 1>   
tC4t Itt MMl   NO tt4tQt   sMiri                            alUt        mica. MU ItlUJist
INW14  MtIL                                         AIEP    "it    -aN          I"t4t    7  nr6163                                                                                        0        91 ul
C_lI_                                              461       wtT   Pttll    313        1 151       lift 
lmmiatUt                                                   jut t9 11 4        3         9       39I.4     Mt          1U IllS    It&                                                           3
*o a   M                                                 lin?    31.31    33.73  4 33.        5lo.3   391.,  320               S       LV .rmlt 34
U111N  MAL1 v1i   .m  sEm    nIn  iu.n  33.9C  31.2                                                                   IL
t C tS IIA                                         E1ta     "6    L"r 7a     lt         m      ["it    IUw        1411
,TDlttI4.                                                 -11       -2g31      mI      9.3      VI       Nil"      371a4        .                                                    1.        .
UUIFIEm11                                       13.1Ion1g   36.3   41.3    35.9       "aL         me.1    ILlS   36.7        47         .3      li                          .3       12       76
lwm m    [a n                                   1                  ait    ta         324       3ms .sl   33.93.3II  1u1.4    U.N II
in"     . W D                                   316        ii      0*4.14 ALN I9.6lr om   11tel    1S,    43.3                P9      31        31391                               2.        21
u3p er O laYM                                   -3.Ie    -2.64    OL 4  3  -I        -313.31    1in.5   -31.13   -63.11      3.                3.                          39       -.2      -l
::mall  I t Imi                                 37.3t    3L.4      U."      18-11 t     6, 3t     1 D    11117    11.1
unL  -                                                                                                                                                                                   mAXmmrom  a
363, t3.    tIL "1.1                                      n.0       IIt3    1.13    36.J    ZS.6V    211a    lxn1
UnTI  SmilE                                     2.71    14.16      9.49    71.31   jL.5    10.1        FLIP    71.49         34        i        l                          21       12       3
mlE    1tt                                        4.41 7           63.3 3iNt  .2 3101.1    3t.ll   SOLID         L3.
*   i6l   lilt  n  St.211                                    9936     Call  13.3    2317    321 133          Ii . 1    1.
ED         -Efl           4-  -4                                     265      3032     1137     Ill ql              171.B   .&
DlcrIn31                                           NDl    -63.S    -D.11    1.iA    -1I.5       2 SO    -1.s1    -9  T
ttCtt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G IP*I  Wt_ lall1s1
1W9                                                                            1        4      31N        11      4F
131.lIlt                                          1337      439 ""2    22921   at429    7*36 n   11      363      2*
*UjIrnioIaJ                           2~~~~~~ ~~21    ILA  LlA   46       41 31      3?     33       341
'aetna   *~~~~~~,                Wa?      lit? ~~~~~~ 1.3?   6.21 11 .1331 39             W      A
9431111                                        2,    X.4 344.03  25913 3
m         n                               43.1        .2    30.914  331.2    L             n 41a          3 I
ML      l6? l AN5 ( I                           1.1       I6.41  I3.1   2tIt4e    W.5i    Cii          61.01
Ec   s u   1  "       _4. ,                                .      1 4.l       .27    9.2         n     3n                                                                .
16   gpy9.9                                               333    3039   32.1         0.3   42.11    3T.1   3315.2
KIncarmm                                         31.3     123    231.27   319.331  21463    ZIm         2.4      2.0
a..,  wart s                                    3. 16        I 39.13  1.3    i94    2110 S    244       4.0       1.
n 3I..     1l4     33.n    U1.31a
'Tols"         11111 6 lot    lt
IllIgi                                            3)      1.90*      II                                                  I1 111                                                         12.41
.om   a-. m_i                            _         ,   _ .         314      .2.12     u.31.....
la     1Pl13                                              031 330 MI.n6    834                                                                                         33.6
Damnrra                                            *      239      1.9 4.44.39   23.                                                                                    6.69E  L  1.1  3.1    41
SNut.   m a         ow.                                    47 L    3.1   17.1   23.47'                                     .6l.                                1zII                      1M
Talk                            12.89    11~~~~.24  6.3        .          1.31                                                                           6.121.1  .9  n.  I.
11 ~ ~   ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ 3. ItCt                         uta  16.$132
I lIfth Floml tE d1ZIi A          1@U0    *xn         M11   Mft titnt tUUt 
vpin   am          nI111   1ew,lC tu   Irs MtlDLlWt I  MlZUt  a  lOes            St_lf  1.
41~~~~~~~~~~                                 SILOjulA  2124  321.3
met a tA at mm    K  2 P5 "E
Smu of63L5                                                                                Z    il            40W  Miltomn.                             c    llOi                      Nq
... ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~17 9111                                         1490      39.11-                                                 93        9                 91       I
IA                                                2.13vn r:fl                                     Gb n, Ont    5391 r"7.3"    lU7



- 27 -
aim  *                                                        6~~~~~ 166 d
IM    M       lo    gm f  nm N   t    moiilMIftmmmms"P  l  InW
warn a~~. mir_u  a*. ane
*                                           1IL33  I&II  15423  2111.111   SI)3   mug.2   tall   mu.               ALU      Lie0    LII                     lI tS            34"
llSWtjuyn                                   -Lii  -43         5.0      LU4   -LI0    -Lu          ia   -9.s u                                                                -I_.
w                                     *     IL      13G    is*   212.14 al       n   ajm eU              1w         ie      6.1 1    .1.31                   u.u in    S      Nu."
131   iML   -                                Ln      aIm    L60    3.1 n       6.3    ILI    lID        IL4      1.3    14.3   -jL;                        e.%    14.0      LO
Is"   latm    "m                             L U     Ls N        in     ats    3.3    11.9    ILU    vim           Lii  lVA         I.16                     Lie   Il        1LIZ
EmIMa                                       -LGb   -LU0   -LIZ    -eli    9.3    1.I8  2111,            11.14        -       -        .                       za    -.E.      Ut2
a    1mE                                         11 3       13   u ji  iiJ .    1m.0   Ii.m    IiLa    W,n         6.23    6.11   4.91                      21.6    Film    3.19
m_a    mmn1    15.5   e4e    11.4    19U. 31te1  Il e    mu,p                                                        II   1.91   -I A                       19.1111 9 *       L19
SI re    Om                                 -1ee    -2.4    -4*    -I."    AaS   -Its    j              iu        II.N    all.t1   -sle.                    -i.E    -i.&    -LISI
M M.   laa                                  11n        ..    v3        1.     N' s     3116    ILl?   IIn 43         6      ."          1-.2?m ae    itci
IaUiLII                                      11.11 L .e    11.i    13S.    te.3    16.911 II 1  IN                 3.28    *.C      1.41                     *.52     US    i.La
Em la mIa"a                                  32.1    4.11    19.4    131,11  TL3    146.6    1.?       11.69      1.11    U,1      G."                     1."    11.19   SIJl
ligN3                     7                    .48   17.    181.21   16.61   162.    42.36   11112   161.84        eMF      iN     .4134.1.12   18.1L                          12.99
rim  aI    3       104961   guSalOMEN  NIIBS. LI IAI s
a_ UM                                          40              190   au   IillI                   ft   7m
Cimain  _ui                                    oz       n       IIIII    ms1   Isi      go       a7       "S
IIln n      US M                               M      30        J 11214 134    Pil      MU      INN      132
cwietw   US                                   11      664      114    FM7       an      [11111   M1      M4
0433a tmo                                     Issi    212      112   low        5116    431      49a     du2
l,     !3                                       jill    clMi   219s 1 244   2cm          DI2U    1411   -w
xnul#"l_                           nt~~~~~~~~~~u  ua    16t>    lisp   tl^n    ill   1MAt   liell
4W  1 5 S3  WMJtat    24                                   143      -17     411      126     694    361
s|wats sua     93                              2      111      IN?    914    4914   ..          116 
INV  1MM  IM                                41.6     7n4.21   3a     ILD    WIa  IIl   HIe.M   12..1
tow    im  3[1                              3.12    14.43   33.    114t36   16.11    0.11    5.9    84.1]
mHsum-                                      uX.n     5.16   am    ani   8442   asi=@    n1.ai  al .:
W  ERE                                       19.49   3,1    1.0   126.1   39.62   4.2. 13.13  1111.14
imcii  at iaum                               12.49   12.41   22I0   24.111  $162   3.AI  361.5   fiLls
fHamm PeE 1  rUS 1 an
mom      c                                   11.77  n23    mit   19.1         Z 1.42  Z21.    24.3    21.99
--- I*iMOam                                  14-.6    MI.   ILl?   19.913   2.V    21.3         Lie    265,
MWAW [                                        4.1L aL II    L.u    4-C    -*           -L,U    -119   .3,r
itL INinSm                                    6.26    11.6     Ur    11.91   11.11    L326 AL            6.3
mini lull                                    -2.89    1'      -1.2   -4.14 -.TA1166    -.1    4.11   *|400
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    is I8ItaK
6.411*116 OF 3311 P1*1K
MPIII IVITW0 IUI llt^ Noel
-  1 mu    V14        If.  tI                                                                             1
int_-   a  Cmllltici2 I-41 I4 .42  4aM                                       1.17 *
5ll1  I1ITU                                          lt-i   1141 1.    3.n                                                                                U.49
[MMt                                           .     Ii    ILP"t  144.1a   ra.13                                                                           .
OIL  M  %ft  loop-                                   6.24   I4.M  11."    4.L%                                                                           1.92
MaL ga   ma.  s was                            *     I& 1    I 4    21.43  219.11                                                                        12 L63
ELp        . S                                      It.24    Li.      1.12    L22                                                                         .11
Sltc Mr                                        .     11.41   6.1   299.6   194.6                                                                         191
&whelm                                         - 13.3   624.11  642.6  3196.1                                                                            11.24
ic.    l.    16us 23n           .2                                                                         1.n
in * NILL                     a INt ,.A            *AIUI Al^  PWN IMT II 1
..3 ..  I .. m .  _   ra  s _sa  put . - .... ........ i....... 1      _.m  a   r           . -
lift    It                       11,7     135                   9 u                          616     63               19      19
sarI mP                                     4.61    mmiii                            3.56                      1.00                     21       LIflt                    110
b1T211nN .21    ,19                                                         :i.1     Lu                        .l.1                             ILS             1.    141
SklIS;                                      1.1    Lo-,                     Id-hu 41.46 .4                                                E    11.3 1u3.1   [1.4"
4114                    its      LU                      141.3   116.3~~~~~~~~~~IOL         3.17                     '91     q.1l            13.4   31.
I' ftlS l
If 
V1     Fo'a   as mu snai   Na I a    lt at11 mil mmItm  1(1.
.,. S            . _IE 31M8
NM   W, 1311 W tIe. is $W  141r3l3e                            _             13 P. 1'



- 28 -
maw onuu  am  m:vi mr ap                                                                             r 
IIIUF  PNFUI BMW MIM                                                                        ME Mr I
fl  maILum  if asu    mrnu                                                              FM  a uF
macu
19           SW7      lo 11JI           [int 1sS       lWltel
33949 MLAU V 91A151
E11l!   Imll IK Nll                            33111    49      23M 92!           2        21114 6 u  30415    206
I11NJ1  IIKLIUIN  191)                        3        "l3    220       34423    23207    1         16221    9l1
IE11511   lNCE                                 -714    -1117   -23!   -491         542    11SM 3    141U      799
NET F1T60  1J                                 49    -145       -11911  -7341   -121U    -ur    -18211   -A
I INTEulr PaIETI                             -mn    -[sn    -s4a        -312   -I33    -leap   -I11    -a
CurIE   mIo    mUaw                           -17!4    -oI    -7223   -12us.    -1          m.       i        -m
9l38lll   ir IIIET    t                         In       204     1254      lK1     14d7      4A       III      e
MIC in. Aso LONS  RN Lux, WI                   241      21      4514    9its  U 179        D41        13   -1s33
IISIUIST                                      i2n     44on      -      133       549      061     2431    2177
IEP411                                        57      4160     4312     T3       4073     so       23       39
IIIF (l)T                                        -        -      -129     -WI       221     133      12"       9
079a  091K                                      911     4214     254    277       -3       -3121    -2293    -27
ONSE  1  I       3 4-11:ok*C                   -302     -1i     -1323     4*       61      -401    -3432      Mm
SE ULLIATIE                                      a        -        14   70    -               -        -
KNIT MlI OU COITEIETK
PUKE lIED.  3 L.I. LS
Il                                          166.11   310.03    2.0   1021.0   5t."   74.30   514.30  92.39
STIER SL1ILAIR                              1132.0   3.3   33            9.30  104.2      2.33   404.10
SUMDe                                        71."   218.3   M3." 9      71.0  117L16   226.10   M.13
srt[S                                         70.16  1247.03    E.       0.39   20.20   331.70   201.50
3ur    am FIEI  IRL INSsulum                 370.6  33n.4   4194.39  713.3  3139.33  539.03  315o.0
VIEt  ISmo SERVIICE
PUtIC 3CM  MTTII  er   11                   320.30 11*34   373.03 4213.3 S6.43 4133.361.64e330                                                        ElitISt Il7
IITEEST g  MLIC  DOT                        2140   31L3    S1.3  *4 ." 4       tU. 1 5M!0 C 143.3s   7334.73                                     anTSTaIs As uiStmD
R9nETI U l IC  8n                            475.43  7M.N  4009.10  36.3  3324.910  3303.9   24144.31-
FotLIE  031 U1VC  IillET                    4 692.60   52L4   7134.3  337.10 m9372.z0  9934.20   963.29                                              ON XC. 3;, U934
PAD"am t  131T E1NI5  F                                                                                                        PiLIC31 M A i.r.
LIt 313  SERmICE ID                    22.24    23.29    32.34    23.35    33.34    1 .44    32.73                            LOW nILLIONS  PE91rM
m                                     33Sill    4.4
REAGE TEM  OF POLIE  ol I ITi                                                                                                  DTFEO OFF. stua                        4300     6.01
INTEI      SA l1 W IKI  1E1S5           1.40    10.30    13.40    34.3    11.3!    1413    31.21                         oT11 P3IV41E                          59012    MI.
0.0. An  4.                                                                                                             S50ES
m. AVAIES nliiti W         LI               -- L.i           9. o  S.7         *.s M    3.40     9.20
nyEII                                                                                                                  TOTAL                                 66433   300.00
3m Eins
I N1141.0AN L, AS1                     33( 1.20  9.13     4. 13    3.76     5.35     6.03     6.05
pRtEs 3.0.   p DS.
i. IN  301 UICS a5   U                      7.39     7.34     3.23     3.3*     1.69     3.29      *29
RKXIC BOT SIEEIC
Li ILL FISES MR TI     1U 11111 US I    TERN ICI KICT DRY 4WDl.
V   IaSED  U U OIL PRIEM OF     20 PER SIEL
... at  4illUU  hESAILY E   IU1E 5 131 TM  Wit.
SICES u   W  NIEItE,31     STAFF ETIUE.
F Wl    2, 193



- 29 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
FISCAL                                                                    US$ MlLLIONS
YEAR          OBLIGOR                      TYPE OF BIUSINESS          LOAN  EQUITY  TOTAL
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment           0.8    --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhtaul             0.5    --       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. I/             Twilst Drills                  0.3    --       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68      y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                            2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                       Steel                          0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/          Sodium Sulphate               0.7    --       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. 1/ Construction Equipment            --      2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. 1/         Iron Ore Hiring               1.5    --       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicans, S.A. 1/    Textiles                         12.0    --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. 1/  Pulp and Paper                   2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.            Cement                       15.9    --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                        1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  NMexinox, S.A.                   Steel                         12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81.
/84     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                   19.0    --    19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Casmino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                          --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A.31 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 37  Particleboard                    25.0    --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. 3/                       Flat Glass                   114.9    --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 31               Mining                       110.0    --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A.3/  Pulp and Paper                   59.5    --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A. 3/                       Agri-Business                 11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                    Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility 4/        Industrial Equipment         100.0    --   100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour              2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex 3/                                                      16.4    --    16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                      705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                    558.1   22.1  580.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            147.6   26.1  173.7
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                   146.3    6.5  152.8
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
31   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.
1/   Pending cancellation.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO: INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
Supplermentary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:                  About six months
tb)  Project Prepared by:                            FONEI
kc)  First Presentation to the Bank:                 December 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                 June 1985
Ce)  Completion of Negotiations:                     January 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  October 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Receipt in the Bank of satisfactory contractual arrangements between
NAFINSA and FONEI would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
57);
(b) Interest rates charged to borrowers on subloans would comply with
requirements of GIRA (para. 59); and
Cc) On-lending conditions for subloans and equity investments to be
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 60-63).



4sttn~icoii~?       /                                                                             LitiNItI)    'J.ATt.    (1)1         AMI RI( A
.....s.,.    ;-,                                                                                                                                  
( gSA'"^A +                                                            
|~   ~~C?                                                >!|. .'  4  4- *                                           -    - i*  tnJda?
( 4j11,rc'A  -.          b~......... ....
.. 1,: tt  5 Z I9lxital . ,,, , , . , >tCM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oric ;0,1
i~~~~~~~~~~y                                                         of rec]                                  !
,,; ,, 1 .. , \ Monal-                                           5*-..-
.  I, ,,S,,,,, "                               i' A '~ 'i.s' I, ss'
(q)llo C AMG
.5  I                                            .} .n  ;   Durongo  'V 'q1
Ad       *1****'o*       /                          I.                          oo..   - .3 
20- A, 9l, .10t1,,^ tsundolal1a.\- - ,) )A
(3.  'aiimA ,us - o l. ,
t~~~~~~ i                                                           -nn            A,,-           . yMo' 'l'vo
I...... .            .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~a .cl4.                                                                    .      *
AAILES O100                            700              IOCI
d rw _ t 1l_ " _eh .1 &I.sI,s                                    r       r,, ,.  ,,,,,o,ng
b_  r._ +                              MWOkfla                 r - .1
2                                                         _                                         _ r  _  _  -   _r tfnrt gS B0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oen _' '!Mre



Vii 9,,.                               FNIrAV1411
-s                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E XlCO0
.^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
di    X National opitul
Cu)    Stalf, capitols
'-'    Principal cities of towns
taied;oN
-ta ^ed+Z;                                                                             sivided  highwoas
,. At Selected  eain roads
-  - .     . kailroods
:   Rmrsrcpol arports
Re' noio _1
S^   '  A hVolrxmoros                                     _   _- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inielnationol bou,ndometss
C,udad\
A .A
I d M..I' 
<;Cq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. id...
sl6-                     Tolpro;                                                                                             9,          a
d .       U ..  L
I ou .                               ...                                                                                       , I5  -;ro  t
J                               Pearr.- R-                                                                          N .                ..ii
P;ashuca                                                                  Compecd'
ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
p * / .. ~Jalapa
M'hEXICO +         Tloaxcala(  (J
Toluca                                     ,- I. ,ksiumaj
Cuernavaca0          Pei       -- 4."                                                                         -*
Sk..                           -          -. K0   lii          .      +vIalhe;rmos&      J  __ 
*-                                     4 V                   *     -       * N-
OChilponcmngo                                                                       -      .
Oovoco       ) J'. I-xjP,l/F
A                                                                              Ii un,e
*J'i  .iiw4          t                                                  __^D)    
P.l e<. s sco d.1\  T    I               A
Topochld'                                    I I)NI I IK A S
tacr                                                                                I



