Report No. PIC4637
Project Name                   Mauritania-Regional Hydropower Development
Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Electric Power & Other Energy
Project No.                    MRPA46650
Implementing Agency            Organization for the Development of the
Senegal River (OMVS)
M. Baba Ould Sidi Abdallah, High
Commissioner
46, Rue Carnot, Dakar, Senegal
Tel: 221-23.45.30 ; Fax: 221-23.47.62
Societe de Gestion de l'Energie de
Manantali
(SOGEM) under creation
Date this PID prepared         January 14, 1997
Projected appraisal date       December 4, 1996
Projected Board Date           May 5, 1997
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the project are to: (a) install power
generation capacity to generate economic and financial benefits from the
Manantali dam which has already been built, and encourage cooperation
and energy exchanges between the three member countries; (b) help
minimize the long-term cost of electricity supply to the three
countries; (c) provide hydropower to help meet increased demand for
electricity and reduce fuel costs; (d) strengthen OMVS and the power
sector entities in the three countries and establish an effective
organization to manage and operate the Manantali dam and project
facilities with satisfactory procedures, in particular regarding safety,
health and environment protection; and (e) contribute to develop the
agriculture traditional sector downstream through the rational
management of the Manantali reservoir.
Description
2.   The proposed project would include the following components:
construction of 200 MW hydroelectric plant (5 units of 40 MW each
and civil works);
construction of 2 KV high voltage transmission lines to Bamako (306
kms) and to Dakar (821 kms) along the Senegal River, and a 132 KV
transmission line to Nouakchott (219 kms);
construction of 11 substations and a dispatching center;



supervision of project construction;
technical assistance and training (support to OMVS and SOGEM,
including for regulatory, reservoir management, health and
environment aspects and for the recruitment of a private operator
for the project).
Implementation
3.   The overall responsibility for the project would rest with OMVS.
However, actual implementation of the project will be delegated to the
Societe de Gestion de l'Energie de Manantali (SOGEM), which would be
assisted for project supervision by a consortium of experienced
consulting firms. SOGEM, a Government-owned company, would be
established prior to starting the construction of the project. It would
own the project assets, supervise project construction and subcontract
management of the hydropower plant, transmission lines and the Manantali
dam to a private operator through a 15-year concession contract.
Cost and Financing
4.   The total project cost is estimated at US$444 million equivalent.
IDA has tentatively allocated US$31 million equivalent to the project.
France may be willing to provide US$89 million, Canada US$24 million,
Germany US$62 million, African Development Bank (FAD) US$26 million,
Belgium US$24 million, Islamic Development Bank US$21 million, the
European Community US$37 million, the European Investment Bank US$46
million, BOAD US$20 million and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (FADES) US$29 million.
Environmental Issues
5.   There are two types of environmental issues.   The first relating to
the dams themselves as they have already been built in the mid eighties
and the second to the power plant, stations and transmission lines to be
built under the project. With the regard to the first, studies have
been undertaken to determine how the proposed projects should contribute
to rectify problems that have been created with regard to the
environment in particular through a reservoir management program
integrating the health, agriculture, environment and energy dimensions.
With regard to the second issue, an Environment Assessment has been
completed to determine the environmentally most sound route that the
transmission line would take and identify measures which might need to
be taken to protect the environment and populated areas.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
- 2 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 24, 1997.
- 3 -



