Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13687
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDITS 2087-UG, 2087-1-UG AND 2087-2-UG)
NOVEMBER 7, 1994
Country Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                         African Development Fund
BOU                         Bank of Uganda
CIDA                        Canadian International Development Agency
CMB                         Coffee Marketing Board
EAU                         Economic Analysis Unit
EDMO                        External Debt Management Office
ERC                         Economic Recovery Credit
ERP                         Economic Recovery Program
ESAF                        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
IDA                         International Development Association
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
KFW                         Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LCs                         Letters of Credit
MOF                         Ministry of Finance
MFEP                        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPED                        Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
MPS                         Ministry of Public Service
NRA                         National Resistance Army
NRM                         National Resistance Movement
OGL                         Open General License
PCR                         Project Completion Report
PFP                         Policy Framework Paper
PSRRC                       Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission
RMEA                        Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, Nairobi
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SIDA                        Swedish International Development Authority
SIP                         Special Import Program
U Sh                        Uganda shilling



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 7, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Uganda - Second Economic
Recoveiy Credit (Credits 2087-UG. 2087-1-UG and 2087-2-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Uganda - Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Credits 2087-UG, 2087-1-UG and 2087-2-UG). Pans I and III were prepared by the Uganda Resident
Mission with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The ERC II, a follow-up adjustment operation to ERC I, was approved by the Board on
February 1, 1990, for an amount of US$133 million, and was subsequently increased to US$137
million. In addition to these amounts, there was co-financing equal to US$72 million. Most of the
credit was released in two tranches, one for US$70.5 million equivalent in early 1990, and another for
US$56.5 million in October 1990. The credit closing was delayed for eighteen months in order to
complete disbursement of the co-financiers' funds and the small, remaining amounts of the Credit.
ERC II conformed to the various Bank/IDA design and procedural directives applicable at the
time. The main focus of the operation was on: (i) strengthening coffee and other private sector
production and investment incentives, through exchange rate and trade reform and privatization of
marketing facilities; (ii) increasing domestic savings and private investment levels through reduction of
public sector deficits and greater financial controls; (iii) broadening the tax base and raising the tax/GDP
ratio; and, (iv) increasing the efficiency of the public sector while reducing the size of the civil service,
both in the context of increased public expendirure/GDP ratios. Hyper-inflation had been conquered,
by monetary restraint, before Board presentation. Based on the analysis in the PCR, the operation's
outcome is rated as satisfactory and its institutional development as negligible. Sustainability is rated
as uncertain because the success in strengthening the public sector has not yet led to strong private
sector development.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
r--
|ltis doruiuni. bas a restricted distAibutiou and way be used by recipieuts ouly in the performuance of their official duties. I
Ls touutiics way *,ot odherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationi.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLhTION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDITS 20870-UG. 20871-UG. 20872-UG
Table of Contents
PREFACE   .......................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .................... I ......................
Part I.   PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ..............   1
A. Project Identity  ..............................................
B. Project Background .............................................    1
Economic and Political Developments Prior to ERC II  .................    1
Bank Group Assistance Strategy  ...............................    4
C.  The Second Economic Recovery Credit  ...............................    5
Origins and Objectives .....................................    5
Policy and Institutional Measures Supported by ERC I   .................   6
Implementation and Monitoring of Measures Supported by ERC II  ...                  ....... 7
Evaluation of Performance  .................................                                10
Other Aspects of ERC G    ....................................  14
The Role of the IMF  ......................................   14
Cofinancing of ERC II .....................................  15
Results under ERC II ......................................  15
D. The Main Lessons Learned  .......................................   16
Part II.         PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...... 17
A. Background, Evolution and Development of the Program  .....................  17
B. Implementation of the Program  ..........................19
C. Evaluation of the Program  ........................................   20
Conclusions    ...................................................                                       21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World B3ankc authorization.I



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Part III.       STATISTICAL INFORMATION.    ............................  23
Table 1   ERC II Cofinancing Contributions (text table).    ......................  19
Table 2   Credit Position. .          .........................................   23
Table 3   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ......................  23
Table 4   Project Dates .............                 ..............................   23
Table 5   GDP at Factor Cost, 1987-1990, at Constant (1991) Prices    ..............  24
Table 6   GDP at Constant (1991) Prices - Percentage Annual Growth Rates, 1987-1992  . ..  25
Table 7   Procurement, Production and Exports of Principal Agricultural Products   ... ...  26
Table 8   Production of Selected Commodities  .............................  26
Table 9   Index of Industrial Production (Base 1987 =  100) .....................  27
Table 10 Balance of Payments .27
Table 11 Government Budgetary and Financial Operations .28
Table 12  Monetary Survey, 1989 - 1993   ................................  29
Table 13  Structure of Interest Rates, 1987 - 1993   ..........................  30
Table 14  Exchange Rates   .........................................   31
Table 15  Composite Consumer Price Index (Base: September 1989 = 100)  ....                   ......  32
Table 16  Producer Prices for Major Export Crops    .........................  32
Table 17 Uganda Government Revenue Collections .33
Table 18 Sale of Petroleum Products by Type of Industry .33
Table 19 Consumer Prices for Petroleum Products .34
Table 20  OGL and SIP Foreign Exchange Allocations, February 1990 - March 1991 .....  35



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDITS 20870-UG.20871-UG. AND 20872-UG)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC
II) in Uganda for which IDA Credit 20870-UG in the amount of SDR98.1 million was approved by the
IDA Board on February 1, 1990. This was supplemented by resources from IDA reflows in the amounts
of SDR1.5 million and SDR1.2 million, which were signed on November 7, 1990 and January 9, 1992,
respectively. The credits were fully disbursed; the last disbursement was in September 1993. The closing
dates were extended twice, first to June 30, 1992, and then to June 30, 1993. This was to allow the
Government more time to utilize all the funds, including those from donors who co-financed the credit
and whose funds were administered by IDA.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Uganda Resident Mission (Preface, Summary, Part I and Part
III), and by the borrower (Part II).
3.       The preparation of the PCR was based on the President's Report, the credit agreements,
supervision reports, and internal bank memoranda.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDITS 20870-UG.20871-UG. 20872-UG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.       In the years immediately following independence in 1962, Uganda was regarded as one of the
most progressive countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The takeover of power by the army led by Idi
Amin in 1972 was the beginning of a period of 15 years of horror for the Ugandan people. This period
was marked by political instability and brutal dictatorships, a civil war and severe deterioration of the
economy. During the period of military rule, from 1972-79, the excesses of the Government undermined
the basic institutions in Ugandan society, and encouraged violence, corruption and a breakdown of
financial discipline. Between 1971 and 1978, the GDP declined by more than 20 percent.
ii.      The elections for the government to take over from the transitional administration that replaced
the Amin regime, were purportedly won by ex-President Milton Obote and his party. However the
results were widely disputed by the other parties. The disenchantment with the results of the election and
the conduct of the Obote regime developed into a civil war in which the destruction of life and property
rivalled that of the Amin regime and the 1978-79 war. This war ended in January 1986, with a victory
for the National Resistance Army (NRA) and its political arm, the National Resistance Movement (NRM).
By this time the economy was in shambles, the education system had deteriorated and the health system
almost destroyed. Basic goods and services were in short supply. There were severe distortions in the
goods, money and labor markets. The civil service was demoralized, and undisciplined. Government
revenue was very low and inflation was in triple digits.
iii.     The initial strategy of the NRM Government was to revive the economy by heavy government
intervention. However, this intensified the existing market distortions and aggravated the shortages of
goods and services. Inflation rose to 356 percent by December 1986, compared to 130 percent in the
previous year. The gap between the official exchange rate, set by the Bank of Uganda (BOU) and the
parallel market rate remained very wide. The Government's interventionist approach was not working.
This led the NRM Government to change its economic strategy. In May 1987 it launched the Economic
Recovery Plan (ERP), prepared with the assistance of the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund (IMF).
iv.      The program had three major aims: (i) to bring about internal financial stability and lower
the rate of inflation; (ii) to reduce the imbalances in the external accounts; and (iii) to promote economic
growth. Due to the severity of the imbalances in the economy, the main focus during the first phase of
the program was on stabilization through improved demand management. During the 1987/88 - 1989/90
period, the Bank supported the program with the First Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I) which was
followed by the Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) for the period 1989/90 - 1991/92.
iii



Objectives f ERC II
v.        The aim of ERC II was to support the third phase of the implementation of the ERP. ERC
II focussed on measures to: (i) reinforce demand management; (ii) liberalize trade and revitalize the
private sector; and (iii) reform and rationalize public sector management.
Implementation Experience
vi.       The implementation of the ERC II program, unlike ERC I, got off to a fast start. The Uganda
Government performed better overall, largely due to the experience it had acquired during the early phase
of the ERP, its improved commitment to the implementation of the program and the Bank's strong
support. The Government was encouraged by some of the successes under ERC I and understood better
the procedures of the Bank. Above all, Government was very well aware that the proceeds from ERC
II, as well as complementary donor support, were making an important contribution to the continued
inflow of essential imports. The appointment of an energetic ERC II coordinator, with direct access to
the Minister of Finance, and with some computer and communications facilities, helped the
implementation of the program. The Economic Monitoring Committee, started under ERC I, proved to
be very useful for coordination and taking corrective actions.
vii.      IDA, on its part, entered into ERC II with a better grasp of the political, social and economic
situation of the country and was thus able to better tailor its policies to the country's circumstances. For
the ERC II program, the Bank put emphasis on stabilization as well as on the implementation of
structural reforms to address the country's long term development constraints. Implementation was also
strengthened by the continued determination of the Government to attain of the objectives of the ERP
despite major adverse external shocks.
Results
viii.     There were notable accomplishments under ERC II. In July 1990, the parallel market in
foreign exchange was legalized by the establishment of foreign exchange bureaux (FEBs or forex
bureaux). The official foreign exchange rate, managed by the BOU, was frequently devalued to bring it
closer to the forex bureau rate. By October 1991, the gap narrowed to about 9.4 percent, only to widen
again to 32.7 percent by the end of the year, just before a foreign exchange auction was introduced. The
rate of inflation was brought to an annual rate of 21 percent in December 1991 and interest rates had
turned positive in real terms for the first time in several years. However, real GDP which had grown
by 7.0 percent in 1989, grew by only 4.5 percent in 1990. This still represented growth in real per
capita income. Govermnent revenue collections rose to 8 percent of GDP in FY90/91, from 7 percent
in FY89190 and 5.3 percent in FY88/89.
ix.      Internal trade was almost totally liberalized and the monopolies of the Coffee and Produce
Marketing Boards were abolished, while similar consideration was underway for the Lint Marketing
Board. Shortages of goods and foreign exchange were substantially reduced. Export and import
procedures were simplified, and barter trade arrangements were nearly all eliminated. The investment
climate was improved by the enactment of the Investment Code (1991). Regarding public expenditure,
a number of key subsectors -- primary health care, primary education, road maintenance, rural water
supply, rural feeder roads, and agricultural research and extension - were selected as budget priorities.
iv



To continue to improve services in these areas, the Government agreed to make increased budget
allocations to them and to release these allocations in full.
x.       The Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) completed its report
which laid the basis for the reform of the civil service. Immediate steps were taken to retrench 50 percent
of the group (casual, non-regular) employees. The number of ministries and agencies was reduced from
38 to 21.
xi.      The functional rationalization of ministries did not take off in the way that was planned
however, and the teachers' staffing and payroll was not cleaned up as scheduled. The liberalization of
export and import procedures was delayed due to lack of support from the implementing ministry.
Budgeting and expenditure control remained weak and discipline in managing the budget was lacking.
These tended to undermine efforts at controlling inflation. While the required reforms of the tax and tariff
structure were carried out, the arrangements for duty drawback on imported inputs to export production
and exemptions from sales taxes on production inputs, were not implemented.
xii.     ERC II was instrumental to building the strong foundation on which more fundamental
reforms were to subsequently take place. In particular, ERC II was a learning opportunity for the
Government that liberalization is not necessarily disruptive. Further the causal relationship between fiscal
deficits, money supply, exchange rates and inflation became clearer to policy makers, with the experience
gained in implementing ERC I and ERC I.
Findines and Lessons Learned
xiii.    The key reasons for the achievements under ERC H were (a) Government's appreciation of
the need for economic reform, which was continuously reinforced by the results being achieved over time
through ERC II implementation; and (b) the quality and continuity of IDA's advice in responding to
issues encountered during implementation. In addition, the timing of ERC H helped to generate
commitment: the country had an acute need for foreign exchange; at the same time it benefitted from the
experience with implementation of ERC I and from a better understanding by IDA and the IMF of the
country's circumstances. Finally, establishment of the ERC H coordination office and the Economic
Monitoring Committee helped ease coordination problems.
xiv.     As could be expected, there were some delays in the implementation of such a wide-ranging
program-- due to lack of capacity in government but also to resistance of vested interests to reform. For
the future, greater emphasis should be given to involving affected parties in the reform process--even
though it should be recognized that only so much can be achieved through persuasion.
xv.      Ultimately, what countss is continuity of purpose on the part of Government and the Bank/IDA.
Thus, while all project objectives may not have been achieved under ERC H, e.g. civil service and trade
reforms, these objectives were achieved later on through follow-up operations and Uganda now has one
of the better performing adjustment programs in Africa.
v






PROJ.ECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDITS 20870-UG. 20871-UG. 20872-UG
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
-Project Name:    Second Economic Recovery Credit
-Credit No:      20870-UG
-RVP Unit:       Africa Region, Country Department II
-Country:        Uganda
-Sector:         Macroeconomic
B. Project Background
Economic and Political Developments Prior to ERC II
1.       Uganda was formally colonized by Britain in 1894 and the territorial consolidation under
British rule was completed in 1912. Until independence in 1962, the territory was controlled by a British
Governor assisted by a very well organized and disciplined civil service. Cotton, the first raw material
agricultural export product, was introduced in the colony as early as 1903 and with the later introduction
of coffee, Uganda's economy grew steadily within a stable social and political environment.
2.        From the country's independence on October 9, 1962, Uganda's government was based on
a Westminster model, with a Prime Minister, who was the head of Government, and a Governor-General,
who was a titular head of state. The country's constitution provided for features of a federal system
although the decentralized status seemed to be enjoyed only by Buganda. However, this arrangement did
not last long: the subsequent power struggles between Milton Obote, the Prime Minister, and the
supporters of the head of state, King Freddie, the Kabaka of Buganda, led to the ouster of King Freddie
by force. The power struggle culminated in the promulgation of the 1967 unitary Republican Constitution
which also made Milton Obote the Executive President. His stay in power heavily relied on the support
of the military. The pivotal role of the army in the politics of the country was soon exploited by Army
Commander Idi Amin who staged a successful military coup in January 1971.
3.       The power struggles of the 1960s did not appear to disturb the economic performance of the
country, which by 1970 was one of the most progressive SSA countries. The economy was largely
agricultural but there was also a small but rapidly growing industrial import substitution sector, largely
controlled by the Asian community.



4.        The agricultural sector, dominated by smallholders, produced sufficient food to meet domestic
needs and a surplus for export. The main export commodities were coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco, and
hides and skins. The country was self-sufficient in essential manufactured commodities like salt, sugar
and beverages. There was external and internal balance as well as internal financial stability. Fiscal
discipline was good, and although the exchange rate was fixed, the Uganda shilling was not overvalued,
Uganda's exports were competitive and the external debt was relatively small and manageable. The
country had an excellent road and rail network, a reliable communications infrastructure and good health
and educational systems.
5.        However, beginning in 1972, Uganda's social and economic progress went into a steady
decline. In September 1972 Amin summarily expelled the Asian community from the country and by
November the same year, they had virtually all emigrated to other countries. The country's economic
infrastructure began to collapse. Henceforth Amin became defiant of the international community, while
running a brutal dictatorship at home. By 1980 the country had been reduced to one of the poorest and
most socially and politically unstable countries in SSA.
6.       The Asian properties and businesses were allocated to the favorites of the regime. These
proved not competent to keep the businesses going and, by the middle of 1973, acute shortages of most
manufactured goods were rampant. The regime continued to keep itself in power against internal and
external opposition, by brutalizing major segments of the country's population. The educated elite
became the prime target of Amin's brutality as they were suspected of collaborating with the regime's
real or imagined enemies.
7.        The educated people subsequently fled the country in large numbers and the social, political
and economic infrastructure deteriorated further due to an acute shortage of experienced personnel. The
once organized and disciplined civil service, health and educational systems suffered the most, as skilled
Ugandans were murdered or fled the country. By 1979 industrial production hit its record low and
agricultural exports had dwindled to the lowest levels. The international sanctions imposed on the Amin
regime for the gross violation of human rights, had also substantially reduced the imports, as the country
was forced to pay cash for all its imports. Between 1972 and 1978 Uganda's GDP declined by over 20%
even though it was a largely agrarian economy with an abundance of fertile soil.
8.       Amin invaded Tanzania in October 1978. After an intense but short war, Amin was removed
from power in April 1979. However, acute instability continued in the country for about another year
and a half until December 1980, when Obote returned to power after elections that were widely disputed.
9.        On assumption of power, the Obote II government quickly embarked on a comprehensive
Rehabilitation and Recovery Program with assistance from the World Bank, the International Monetary
Fund and other donors. The program however soon ran into difficulties as disenchantment over the
conduct of the elections developed into a civil war, whose destruction of life and property rivalled that
of the Amin regime and the 1978-79 war combined. The Obote II regime was overthrown by the Army
in July 1985 but the civil war continued until January 1986 when the National Resistance Army (NRA)
defeated the remnants of the then Ugandan Army and marched into Kampala. The victory for the NRA
brought to power the National Resistance Movement (NRM), headed by the current President, Yoweri
Museveni.
-2-



10.      By the time the NRM came to power, the recklessness of the Amin regime, the 1978-79
liberation war, and the 1981-86 guerilla and civil wars, had sapped the strength of both the Ugandan
society and economy. Acute material scarcities, the breakdown of civil law and order, and political
brutalization resulted in the moral degradation of the Ugandan society. Economic mismanagement had
destroyed the industrial base and disrupted the production and marketing of agricultural products.
Agricultural production had virtually ceased in the once fertile areas of Luwero and Mukono which had
borne the brunt of the 1981-86 guerilla and civil wars and the once prosperous farms there were
destroyed by the fighting.
11.      The transport and communications infrastructure was in a poor state; the education system
had deteriorated badly and the once well maintained health system was almost completely destroyed. The
once organized, disciplined and neutral civil service was now demoralized, politicized and undisciplined.
The previous stable administrative structure had been disrupted and revenue collection was low and
chaotic. Violent crime was rampant in Kampala and other cities, and armed anti-NRM forces were
operating in some parts of the country, particularly in the North. There were severe shortages of goods
and services and low production of the traditional cash and other export crops. This in turn resulted in
shortage of foreign exchange, and a severe shortage of essential imports. Distortions in the goods, money
and labor markets were rampant, the parallel market in foreign exchange was flourishing, and inflation
was in triple digits. The NRM Government inherited a shattered society and economy.
12.      The NRM Government's initial strategy for economic recovery was built on heavy intervention
in the economy by the Government. The Government took control of the internal and external trade on
essential commodities like sugar and salt, maintained a fixed exchange rate and increased government
spending through bank borrowing. It engaged in international barter trade transactions and through this
procured goods and services for the army and the reconstruction of various facilities. These actions
intensified the existing market distortions, aggravated the shortages of goods and increased inflationary
pressures. By December 1986 inflation was running at an annual rate of 356 percent, compared to 130
percent at the beginning of the year.
13.      The continuing shortages of goods and services, internal revenue, foreign exchange and the
three digit inflation were all a manifestation of the failure of the interventionist policies. This led the
NRM government to seek other ways of managing the country's economy, and in late 1986, the NRM
government approached the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for assistance in this
regard. With the assistance of the Bahk and the IMF, the Government put together and launched the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in May 1987.
14.      ERP was based on the first Policy Framework Paper (1987/88-1989/90), developed jointly
by the Uganda Government, the World Bank and the IMF. The broad objectives of the ERP were (i)
rapid economic recovery; (ii) attainment of internal financial stability and a rapid decline in the rate of
inflation; (iii) the reduction of external imbalances; and (iv) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of
productive enterprises and social infrastructure. The ERP was supported by IDA's first Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC I).
15.      ERC I focussed on improving demand management, liberalizing the trade regime, increasing
producer incentives for export commodities, raising government revenues, and improving expenditure
management. A high level Economic Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, and
consisting of the Governor of the Bank of Uganda and ministers in key economic portfolios was set up
to keep track of fiscal and monetary aggregates, and to propose corrective measures when necessary.
-3-



The role of the Committee was expanded to include monitoring the implementation of ERC I. A limited
Open General License (OGL) system was set up to assure that priority activities received foreign
exchange. The Special Import Program (SIP) was later introduced for the allocation of foreign exchange,
on a more liberal basis, to importers of goods and services not catered for under the OGL.
16.      These measures sustained the high rate of growth of the economy attained during the first
phase of the program and caused the annual rate of inflation to decline from about 200 percent in early
1988 to about 60 percent in the latter part of the year. Peace and security improved considerably in the
northern and eastern parts of the country where the rebel activities had continued. This was a result of
the efforts of the Government to make peace with the rebels. However, due to excessive crop finance,
high government expenditure and low coffee world market prices, the rate of inflation swung back into
triple digits during the January to July 1989 period.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy
17.      The Bank Group assistance strategy for Uganda aimed to support the Government's Economic
Recovery Program, help to restore the productive capacity, and steer the economy toward sustainable
long-term growth. This strategy focussed on (i) the restoration of macroeconomic stability; (i) the
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure;  and (iii) the implementation of structural reforms and
investments in physical capital and human resources to meet long-term development needs. In the short-
term, emphasis was on stabilization, improved financial intermediation, the creation of an environment
conducive to growth of the productive sectors, and the rehabilitation of social services. For the medium
term, the focus was on the key growth sectors of agriculture and industry, and the supporting sectors such
as power and transport.
18.      The Bank Group strategy recognized that sustainable and equitable long-term development will
require substantial increases in productivity and in the levels of investment and savings. Thus the Bank's
adjustment operations, including ERC II, and its support for restoration of public services and
infrastructure rehabilitation, were intended to create an enabling environment for the private sector. To
ensure that growth was sustainable in the long-term, the strategy put a special focus on environmental
issues in investment lending and technical assistance. The strategy also emphasized education and health
sectors, in both economic and sector work and lending, to ensure that the poor have access to social
services and productive assets. Because of the severity of institutional weaknesses, the strategy also put
priority on capacity building.
19.      A number of major studies were planned to support the assistance strategy. These included
a major public expenditure review (PER), a financial sector review, and a private sector assessment. The
PER was intended to provide the analytical foundation for improvements in budgetary allocations. Initial
results from the PER helped in the formulation of the FY90/91 budget and the design of the
Government's priority programs. The Financial Sector Review was to carry out an in-depth analysis of
the relationship between macroeconomic stabilization and the behavior of the financial sector. The
Private Sector Assessment was to help in the design of a program of policy, regulatory and institutional
reforms to promote private sector development. These studies were completed by the end of 1990 and
helped in the design of the first Structural Adjustment Credit (FY9 1), and the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FY93).
20.       The UNDP financed, World Bank executed Trade Expansion Project carried out a study of
the trade and tax regime in Uganda. This study was helpful in the design of reforms of indirect taxes
-4-



and the trade regime. In addition the IMF carried out studies of the tax structure in Uganda, which led
to new measures to broaden the tax base and increase revenues.
C. The Second Economic Recovery Credit
Origins and Objectives
21.      Encouraged by some positive developments achieved during the first and second years of the
ERP, the Bank agreed to continue support for the ERP with the Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC
II). An Initiating Memorandum in respect of the proposed credit was issued on April 26, 1989 and the
Credit was appraised in May/June 1989. Negotiations between the Government of Uganda and the Bank
started in Kampala on November 2, 1989 and were successfully concluded in Paris on December 2, 1989.
A Letter of Development Policy, formally requesting IDA for the provision of a Second Economic
Recovery Credit in the amount of US$125 million was forwarded by Uganda's Minister of Finance to
the Bank on December 19, 1989. The Credit was approved on February 1, 1990 and the Credit
Agreement signed on February 8, 1990. It became effective on February 20, 1990.
22.      The objective of ERC II was to support the third phase of the Government's Economic
Recovery Program spelled out in the Policy Framework Paper (1989/90-1991/92). In this phase of the
implementation of ERP, the objectives were: (i) an annual GDP growth rate of 5 percent and a
subsequent rise in income per capita of 2 percent per year; (ii) a rate of inflation of 7.5 percent by the
end of 1992; and (iii) strengthening the balance of payments sufficiently in order to permit substantial
improvement in Uganda's net international reserves. These objectives were to be achieved by the
implementation of measures to:
*  improve and maintain incentives for the expansion and diversification of exports and
efficient import substitution, through competitive exchange rates, trade and exchange rate
liberalization, price incentives to producers and the provision of adequate services and
infrastructure;
*  mobilize domestic savings, through incentives for private savings and reduction of the
fiscal deficit and the operating losses of parastatals and marketing boards;
*  improve the efficiency of the public sector;
*  strengthen the financial sector, improve credit control and the performance of financial
institutions; and
*  broaden the tax base and strengthen the revenue effort.
23.      The NRM Government's goals for the program supported by ERC II were more ambitious
than those under ERC I and the policy measures needed to achieve them were also broader and more
extensive. Their success required a strong commitment by the Government and a strong effort in
mobilizing financial support from donors.
-5-



Policy and Institutional Measures Supported by ERC II
24.       Of the ERP policy measures outlined above, policy measures supported by ERC II fell into
the following broad categories:
*  the reinforcement of demand management by structural reforms, improvements in the
efficiency of use of resources, and strong revenue mobilization efforts.
*   liberalization of trade and revitalization of the private sector;
*  rationalization of public sector management.
25.       Specifically, IDA required that the release of the ERC II second tranche would be conditional
on implementation of the following policy measures by the Uganda Government:
*   a comprehensive tax and tariff structure reform specifying:
(i)    the levels of sales tax, excise tax duties and customs tariffs to be applied to each
commodity;
(ii)    a streamlined drawback or exemption arrangements for sales tax on production
inputs and for customs tariffs on imported inputs incorporated in export
production;
*   recurrent and development budget expenditures in line with the fiscal targets endorsed by
the Fund and consistent with development priorities;
*   a comprehensive plan for the liberalization of the export marketing of coffee. The plan
was to include:
(i)    the active participation of the private cooperative sector in coffee marketing;
(ii)   administrative arrangements for export revenue recovery and taxation and tax
incentives to encourage the development of a competitive export trade;
(iv)   the establishment of a coffee market intelligence service and institutional
arrangements for the coordination of exporters handling and storage requirements
at port of shipment;
(v)    appropriate reforms in the Government's barter trade practices for coffee and
other export crops;
*   replacement of the export licensing system  with renewable export certificates and
satisfactory implementation of actions to strengthen customs administration and establish
the ex-post monitoring system on the agreed timetable;
-6-



*  expansion of the establishment register, payroll number scheme, and computerization of
staff lists to incorporate the teaching service and the local authorities;
*  commencement of the implementation of the rationalization program  covering the
Ministries of Agriculture, Public Service and Cabinet Affairs and two other Ministries
identified as having overlapping and duplicate functions, or where merging of their
functions would result in greater efficiency of resource use.
Implementation and Monitoring of Measures Supported by ERC II
Demand Management.
26.      Because of Uganda Government's experience gained during the previous two phases of ERP,
the implementation of the measures to strengthen demand management got off to a relatively fast start.
These consisted of measures for improving revenue generation, tightening the control of public
expenditure, restrictive monetary and credit policies as well as the liberalization of the coffee sub-sector.
27.      Revenue Generation/Tax Reforms.   Due to the evasion of taxes by a large volume of
transactions in the informal sector, the narrow coverage of tax instruments, the heavy dependence of
Government on the coffee export tax and the deterioration in the Government's tax collecting ability, in
1989 Uganda's tax effort stood at a meager 6 percent of GDP compared with an average of 18 percent
in SSA. As a consequence, Government relied on central bank credit and foreign assistance for the
financing of the larger proportion of its budget. To resolve this problem on a permanent basis it was
necessary to reform the country's tax system, strengthen tax administration and collection, broaden the
tax base and reform the parastatal sector.
28.      Following the IMF review of the tax system and tax administration in October 1990, the
Government took a number of measures to broaden the tax base, and increase compliance with taxes so
as to increase revenues.  Customs duties were introduced on all imported raw materials at the rate of
10 percent; an excise duty of 5 percent was introduced on a number of manufactured products, and the
definition of taxable commodities was widened so as to bring those that had hitherto been exempt within
the tax net. Fees and licenses for motor vehicles were henceforth to be charged on their gross rather than
net weight. The personal income tax threshold was raised from U Sh5O,000 to 240,000 per year, the
maximum individual rate was lowered from 60 to 55 percent, and the corporation tax was reduced from
60 to 45 percent and subsequently to 40 percent. These reductions in personal and corporate taxes were
made to encourage compliance and promote investment.
29.      In FY91/92, the Government moved to provide autonomy to tax administration so as to
enhance revenue collection. The most important of these measures was the establishment of the semi-
autonomous Uganda Revenue Authority. Changes were also made in the tax system. The maximum
individual income tax rate was again lowered to 50 percent and was to apply to an annual income of more
than U Sh2.62 million. A commercial transaction levy of 10 percent was introduced, and road user
charges were reduced to two categories U ShlOO and 300, from the original four.
30.      Expenditures,  Fiscal discipline was lacking, and budget allocations were generally not
respected. Expenditure on the military consumed over 40 percent of all recurrent expenditures. The lack
of budget discipline was a major factor in the underlying internal financial stability and hence inflation.
Monitoring of budget performance during the fiscal year was generally poor; it was only after the creation
-7-



of the Economic Analysis Unit in the MOF that it became possible to get rudimentary data on revenues,
budget releases and expenditures during the fiscal year. However, it was only in FY92/93, after the
merger of MOF and MPED, that a serious effort was made to use this information to control spending.
Thus during ERC II, lack of fiscal discipline continued to stand in the way of achieving a low and stable
inflation.
31.      Coffee Sub-Sector.  In 1989, the BOU took over the provision of crop finance from
commercial banks. lhis inevitably led to a situation where the marketing boards received more crop
finance than was prudent. The situation was aggravated by the barter trade protocols which had been
entered into by the Government. The Government did not pay the marketing boards for the crops
procured for barter, increasing the crop finance needs of the boards. Indirectly the BOU was financing
these barter deals. Coffee was the principal consumer of crop finance. Given the importance of coffee
to the economy, and its role in the financial hemorrhage, it was essential to liberalize the sector, ensure
the active participation of the private sector in coffee exporting, and commercial banks in providing crop
finance.
32.      ERC II therefore required the Government to prepare a plan to reform and liberalize the coffee
sector. The Government, in collaboration with the Bank, produced this plan which led to far reaching
reforms of the coffee subsector. The reforms were supported mostly by IDA's Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit, which was approved by IDA's Board in December 1990. But ERC II set the stage
for these reforms.
33.      Four cooperative unions (Banyankole Kweterana, Bugisu, Masaka and Busoga) were licensed
in 1990 to process and export coffee, and in 1991 two others (Sebei and West Mengo) were also licensed.
Also in 1991, the Cooperative Societies Act was amended to enable the cooperative unions to operate as
independent business entities. Controls on producer prices, processing and export margins were removed
to allow farmers' prices and other margins to be determined by market forces. The Coffee Marketing
Board was restructured with its commercial functions taken over by the Coffee Marketing Board Ltd. Its
regulatory functions were assumed by the Uganda Coffee Development Authority.
34.       Effective from November 1991, the crop finance functions for the coffee subsector were
transferred from Bank of Uganda to the comrnercial banks; and from March 1992, coffee export proceeds
were allowed to be exchanged at the forex bureaux rate. In July 1992 the export tax on coffee was
removed although a 2 percent withholding tax on agricultural processing, including coffee, was
introduced. During FY91/92 13 private companies were licensed to participate in coffee procurement,
processing and export. With these reforms, the coffee farmers were paid promptly. This led to the
reversal of the tendency of the farmers to uproot coffee trees; instead, they began to plant higher yielding
varieties.
35.      Interest Rate and Monetary Policies. During the third phase of ERP, the phase supported
by ERC II, the emphasis was on a steady adjustment of the exchange rate, the active monitoring of
monetary and credit developments so as to achieve the program targets, the review of the level and
structure of interest rates and the maintenance of crop finance within the ESAF monetary benchmarks.
In December 1989, the Bank of Uganda raised its commercial lending rate to 55 percent from 45 percent.
This made the real rate of interest positive for the first time in many years. All coffee barter exports
were limited to a cumulative maximum of 240,000 bags and all existing coffee barter contracts were
required to be registered with the Ministry of Finance. A Presidential Decree directed that all coffee be
exported for cash as long as the International Coffee Agreement quotas were not in effect.
-8-



Reform of the Indirect Tax System
36.      In the 1990/91 budget, the Government adopted a tax reform specifying levels of sales tax,
excise duties and customs tariffs to be applied to each commodity and streamlining the drawback or
exemption arrangements for the sales tax. The import duty rate bands were reduced from several to only
five, ranging from 10 to 50 percent. The rates above 50 percent were abolished. The sales tax rate
bands were set at only four, with the rates applying equally to locally produced and imported goods. The
excise duties had a two-rate structure, i.e., 30 and 60 percent, with the taxes being restricted to alcoholic
beverages, soft drinks, cigarettes and all soap except bar soap.
Rerorm of the Exchange Regime
37.      An overvalued exchange rate as well as uncoordinated monetary policies had continued to
plague Uganda's economy even after the implementation of the first and second phases of the ERP.
During the implementation of ERC II there were a series of exchange rate regime adjustments. The most
important step was the legalization of foreign exchange transactions on the parallel markets in July 1990,
with the licensing of a number of forex bureaux to retail foreign exchange at market determined rates.
This immediately opened a wide gap between the market rate and the official rate, set by BOU.
Subsequently, the official rate was devalued regularly in an effort to close the gap between the market
and the official rates. This gap was 45 percent in July 1990 and closed to 9.4 percent in October 1991
before widening again to 30 percent in December 1991.
38.      In January 1992, a foreign exchange auction was introduced by BOU, to allocate the proceeds
of donor import support on a market basis. The marginal rate at this "Dutch" auction was taken as the
official exchange rate. However, because of relatively high transactions costs in obtaining foreign
exchange from the auction, there remained a gap of about 15 percent between the marginal auction rate
and the bureau rate. In March 1992, the Government decided that the rate for official transactions would
be determined by the average of the foreign exchange bureaux rates.
Trade Liberalization and Private Sector Revitalization
39.      The reform of the incentive and regulatory system was an important component of ERC II.
As a condition for the release of the ERC II second tranche, the Government was required to replace
the existing export licensing system with renewable export certificates. The Government was also to take
the necessary actions to strengthen customs administration and to establish an ex-post monitoring system
for exports and imports on a timetable agreeable to the IDA. While ERC required that the Government
abolish export licensing only, the Government moved ahead to apply the same principles to import
licensing. In September 1990, the timetable for the establishment of the ex-post monitoring system was
agreed with IDA and consultants commenced work on the establishment of the system. In November
1991, both export and import licenses were abolished and replaced wi4h renewable export and import
certificates.
40.      Under the ERP, two parallel schemes, the Open General License System (OGL) and Special
Import Program (SIP) were established for the allocation of the proceeds for import support. Under the
OGL system, established in 1987, foreign exchange was allocated to a number of selected firms operating
in key industries, for the importation of essential production inputs. In December 1989, the number of
firms under the system was expanded to 63 from the original 25 so as to spread the benefits as wide as
possible. Under the system, foreign exchange was allocated by the OGL committee to the importers on
-9-



the basis of their requirements for essential raw material inputs and spares.
41.      The Special Import Program (SIP) was designed to cover imports not covered under OGL.
Under SIP, foreign exchange was sold on a first come first served basis at the official exchange rate.
By the end of March 1991 US$25 million was used up under the OGL while the more liberal SIP III sold
US$99 million (see Table 20). The plan under ERC II was to merge the OGL and SIP into a more
liberal system that is closer to the SIP than the OGL. This plan never materialized. The OGL and SIP
foreign exchange allocation systems were abandoned in January 1992 when the foreign exchange auction
was introduced to allocate the proceeds of donor import support on a market determined basis.
42.      To create a conducive environment for private investment, a review of the laws and
regulations pertaining to the establishment and operations of enterprises was undertaken. Following this,
the Investment Code (1990) was enacted, and the Investment Authority was established in 1991. The
Government made a firm commitment to return the expropriated Asian properties to their original owners
and the data work necessary to accomplish this started under ERC H.
Public Sector Management.
43.      On assumption of power, the NRM Government inherited a demoralized and undisciplined
civil service. There were 38 ministries and agencies, with overlapping functions as well as many
redundant employees, especially at the lowest levels. No accurate record of the number of civil servants
existed. The unwieldy size, poor compensation and low morale in the civil service undermined the
Government's ability to deliver public services and implement recovery and development programs. In
1989, the Government set up the Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) to
make recommendations for the reform of the civil service.
44.      As a condition for the release of the second tranche of ERC II of the Government was
required to extend the Establishment Register, payroll number scheme, and computerization of staff lists
to incorporate the teaching service and the local authorities and to start the functional review of all
ministries with a view to rationalizing their functions and staffing.
45.      By the second half of 1990, detailed payroll data on all 47 budget votes had been compiled
and work linking the payroll to the establishment register and staff lists was completed in July 1990. The
Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission completed its work in September 1990 paving
the way for the implementation of the Civil Service Reform. There was a retrenchment of 50 percent of
the civil servants classified as group employees. The information on the Teachers Service and Local
Authorities payroll and staff lists was delayed and was completed only in 1991. This was primarily due
to the lack of cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Sports, and the Ministry of Public
Service (MPS). There was an endless dispute between the two ministries about the number of teachers.
Because of this dispute, it took another two years before the teachers' payroll could be fully
computerized.
Evaluation of Performance
46.      The implementation of the ERC II program got off to a fast start, compared to ERC I. The
Government performed better overall due to the experience it had acquired. It had a better understanding
of World Bank procedures, particularly operation of special accounts, procurement, and disbursements.
Government commitment to the ERP and the policy reform program was much stronger than under ERC
-10-



I. There were a few key officials in Government who understood the linkages between the reforms of
ERC and rapid economic recovery and development in the medium and long run. There remained
however, within Government, many skeptics and opponents of reform. However, the Government was
well aware that the proceeds of the IDA Credit and complementary donor support were making an
important contribution to the continued inflow of essential imports to the economy. There was therefore
a determination to see the program move along.
47.      IDA, with the experience of ERC I behind it, had a better grasp of the political, social and
economic situation of the country, its needs and implementation capacity of the Government. The design
of ERC U took most of these factors into consideration. The first tranche of the credit was made
available immediately on credit effectiveness and 20 percent of it went towards retroactive financing of
imports, recognizing the urgent need at the time for foreign exchange for financing essential imports.
48.      The credit of US$125 million was disbursed in two unequal tranches. The first tranche was
US$70 million, of which a large amount (US$40 million) was deposited into the Special Account on
credit effectiveness. The credit also made a substantial amount (US$35 million) available for petroleum
imports. Although during ERC H, stabilization was paramount, the Bank also focussed on the structural
reforms to reinforce demand management and address the country's long term development objectives.
The second tranche was released later than planned, but the Bank was encouraged by the Government's
effort and growing commitment to achieve the objectives of the ERP, and the overall success of the
program up to that point, despite the adverse external shocks.
49.      Performance of Government. The problems with the implementation of the program had
to do with the Government's capacity to implement the program. The commitment of some of the
implementing ministries was in doubt. There was little understanding of the program and commitment
at the civil service level, apart from a few top officials in the core economic ministries. The civil service
was undisciplined and underpaid. Absenteeism was high mainly because staff needed to have other jobs
to make a living. Lack of coordination was endemic and the absenteeism made it worse. The staff tended
not to take the implementation of the policies and conditions seriously.
50.      Unlike ERC I however, there was a focal point for the implementation of the program. The
appointment of an ERC H Coordinator in October 1989, before Board presentation of ERC I, facilitated
the implementation of the program. The coordinator had a small staff, and direct access to the Minister
of Finance.  More importantly, the office was equipped with computers, printers, copiers, and
communications facilities which enabled the coordinator to produce documents quickly and communicate
with the ERC II task manager in Washington. The coordinator used these facilities effectively.
51.      Under ERC II, substantial progress was made in the liberalization of economic activities,
including coffee reforms, and the exchange and trade regimes. Even in these areas, progress was not
painless due in part to resistance from implementing ministries. For instance, the replacement of export
licenses by renewable export certificates was a condition for the release of the second tranche. The
announcement of the change was made before the release of the tranche in October 1990, but
operationally, the new system was not in place until November 1991. The abolition of import licenses,
and replacement with certificates also became operational in November 1991, after substantial delays.
The reason for the delays was that the implementing ministry, the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperatives
and Marketing, was opposed to the reforms.
-11-



52.       On revenue generation, until the Revenue Authority was established in 1991, the tax collection
effort was hampered by inefficiency and corruption. Although a substantial increase in revenues (50
percent) was recorded in FY90/91, this was from a very low base and the increases could not be
sustained without improvements in tax administration.
53.       On budget allocations and control of expenditures, progress was made but at a very slow pace.
This was primarily due to the weakness of the MOF and the BOU. One of the second tranche conditions
of ERC II was that the Government and IDA should agree on the size and composition of the recurrent
and development budgets. When the ERC II second tranche review mission visited in early June 1990,
there was not even a broad outline of the Government's budget proposals to discuss, although the budget
had to be read before the end of the month. The mission had to then make specific proposals to the
Government on issues of concern to it. When the budget was presented to IDA, it did not have much
of a choice but accept the Government's proposals, as there was no time to make any changes.
54.       Expenditure control remained a serious problem. The defence expenditure was high relative
to other areas, but the army routinely exceeded its budget because it lacked basic discipline to control its
expenditures and MOF had no capacity to monitor expenditures and take corrective action. Ministers and
other officials obtained funds from the Bank of Uganda without the authority of the Ministry of Finance.
Unbudgeted expenditures abounded. These issues came to a head in FY91/92 when MOF allowed
expenditures to exceed revenues and grants by a very wide margin. The Bank of Uganda passively
financed the huge deficit and inflation accelerated. The President replaced the Minister of Finance, and
merged the MOF with the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development to form the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP). Since then there has been more effort to control expenditures
and the result has been a reduction of inflation to single digits.
55.       Progress on rationalizing public sector management was poor. ERC II had an ambitious
agenda of rationalizing the functions of ministries and building up an information base that could be used
to end abuses of government employment and payroll. It was proposed to link the establishment register
with staff lists and payroll data to prevent the emergence of ghosts. This exercise was also to be extended
to the teachers and employees of local authorities. Substantial analytical work was done to permit these
actions to be taken.
56.       Implementation of the necessary actions was, however, harnpered by the bureaucracy and
ineffective political leadership at the ministries concerned. The Ministry of Public Service was at the
center of the reforms. However, it did not have the capacity or incentive to implement the reforms. The
Ministry of Education and Sports, in charge of the teachers' payroll, did not co-operate in the exercise
and was unwilling to accept any numbers which it did not determine. It refused to accept the results of
the census of teachers conducted under the auspices of MPS. It was not until 1993 that the teachers'
payroll was computerized, although there remained ghosts in the payroll.
57.      Functional rationalization of the five ministries selected did not take off in the way that was
planned, primarily because MPS did not have the capacity to carry it through. In July 1991, the number
of ministries and agencies was reduced from 38 to 21, through a Presidential directive. This was done
by combining existing ministries, and did not appear to be the result of the previous analytical work
which was done on the rationalization of ministerial functions. Under SAC I, a fresh review of functions
of ministries was initiated, targeting five large ministries. Under ERC II, the public sector reform
component did not achieve its objectives, although it helped to sensitize the ministries involved of the
actions that need to be taken to achieve an efficient civil service.
-12-



58.      The implementing line ministries were not brought into the design of the program at an early
stage. Thus they were being asked to implement programs whose origins and rationale were foreign to
them. The team that the Government fielded for negotiations in Kampala was drawn from the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Uganda, and the Ministry
of Justice. The composition of the team indicated the lack of involvement by the implementing line
ministries in the design and negotiation of the program.
59.       Overall, the performance of the Government in the implementation of ERC II, though much
better than ERC I, was mixed. In some areas it was satisfactory, perhaps even remarkable -- exchange
regime, tax reforms. In others the objectives were not achieved--public sector management reforms. In
all cases, it took a lot of work on the part of the coordinator, ERC II task manager and missions, and the
Resident Mission staff, to get results. It was important to put constant pressure on the implementing
ministries, otherwise no action would be taken. Bank staff played a large role in coordinating the
activities of the various ministries, something that belongs to the lead implementing ministry - the
Ministry of Finance. But because of the large job involved in coordination, MOF needed help as its own
capacity was weak.
60.      ERC II has been instrumental to building the foundation on which more fundamental reforms
under SAC I took place. The program was a learning opportunity for the Government, that liberalization
can work without being disruptive, and in particular that a free market for foreign exchange does not lead
to excessive undervaluation of the exchange rate and high inflation. In addition, the causal relationships
among fiscal deficits, money supply, exchange rates and inflation became clearer to policy makers, with
the experience gathered in implementing ERC I and ERC II.
61.      Performance of IlDA. For ERC II, IDA's overall aim was to support the Government's
Economic Recovery Program by helping to restore productive capacity while steering the economy
towards sustainable long term growth. The Bank worked closely with the Fund towards the achievement
of stabilization, improved financial intermediation, creation of an environment conducive to growth of
the productive sectors as well as the rehabilitation of the social sectors. Despite Government's lackluster
performance under ERC I, the Bank responded positively to the country's need for policy advice and
balance of payments support under ERC II.
62.       The badly needed first tranche of the credit was released immediately upon credit
effectiveness, while the second tranche, though its release was delayed for about three months, was
disbursed relatively quickly once it was released. Furthermore the Bank extended two reflows of SDR
1.5 and 1.2 million on November 7, 1990 and January 9, 1992 respectively. Disbursement of the credit
proceeds was on schedule and regular, although there were some delays in the disbursements of funds
provided by other donors through cofinancing.
63.      The Bank was responsive to the needs of Uganda. With a large initial deposit in the Special
Account, the Bank wanted to avoid a situation where the Special Account was used up before Uganda
had enough documents to replenish it. This was a lesson from ERC I. The Bank also provided a large
amount of money to finance petroleum imports, taking into account the fact that Uganda had little free
foreign exchange of its own to finance petroleum. Even the credit amount was large by any standard,
but this recognized the urgent need of Uganda for foreign exchange and budgetary support. The Bank
also played an important role in mobilizing donor support for the ERP. It also worked closely with the
Fund in assisting the Government to negotiate debt relief from its creditors.
-13-



64.      ERC II supported a broad program of stabilization and adjustment. It was clearly aimed at
the major problems confronting Uganda but the capacity to absorb and implement the reforms was not
there. Furthermore, the commitment was not strong; these factors were well known at the beginning of
the program. Some effort was made, with the assistance of the Bank, to build capacity, particularly in
the MOF, with the ERC II coordination office and the Economic Analysis Unit, and in the Bank of
Uganda, with the External Debt Management Office (EDMO). The technical assistance component of
ERC II paid for some of these units and funded the necessary studies.
65.      The Bank supervised the implementation of the credit very closely.  Supervision and
monitoring was done by the regular Bank Missions to Uganda and by continuous discussion with, and
reminders to, the officials in charge of the implementation of the various measures required under the
credit. The ERC II coordinator kept in close touch with the Task Manager and the Resident Mission.
The Bank Resident Mission also kept close contact with Government officers responsible for the
implementation of the program policies.
Other Aspects of ERC II
66.      Procurement. ERC II proceeds were used to finance 100 percent of the cost of general
imports, petroleum products and technical assistance. By March 1991 a total of US $ 123 million had
been allocated for petroleum and general imports.
67.      Disbursements. The IDA ERC Jl credit equivalent to US$133.3 million was fully disbursed
by June 30, 1993. The first tranche was released immediately on credit effectiveness on February 20,
1990, while the second tranche was released in October 1990. The two reflows extended by the Bank
to the Government on November 7, 1990 and January 9, 1992 respectively, were also fully disbursed by
the time of the credit closure. The planned closure of the credit was December 31, 1991. This date was
extended to June 30, 1993 to enable the Government to utilize all the credit proceeds, particularly from
the cofinancing donors, that still remained on the credit account.
68.      Utilization. ERC II was administered by Bank of Uganda which, under the terms of the
agreement, maintained a special account in an offshore commercial bank in which the credit proceeds
were deposited by IDA upon request by the Bank of Uganda. The credit funds were allocated under OGL
and the Special Import Program. The funds set aside for oil imports were allocated by the Bank of
Uganda to qualifying oil companies and were fully utilized as planned. The funds intended for technical
assistance were also fully utilized and were allocated on request by the Project Coordinator.
69.      Accounts and Audits. Under the ERC II, accounting procedures in Bank of Uganda were
strengthened and regular statements of credit accounts were prepared by the External Debt Management
Office of Bank of Uganda, and these were regularly audited by the Government's Auditor General as
required by the Credit Agreement.
The Role of the IMF
70.      The Fund played the lead role in the design of the macroeconomic stabilization program and
the reforms of the exchange regime, provided the fiscal and monetary benchmarks, and supervised and
monitored these aspects of the program. The Bank and the Fund shared information and worked closely
at all levels in assisting the Government in the design of the ERP, in supervising and monitoring the
program, and in assuring the consistency of the various programs. The Fund was also instrumental in
-14-



the negotiations between the Government and the donor community for the rescheduling of some of the
country's external debt. The Fund also extended a Credit of SDR 219.2 million under its Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility which covered the April 1989 to November 1993 period.
Cofinancing of ERC II
71.      The Bank played a key role in the mobilization of external donor support for the ERP. The
Netherlands, Sweden, Canada, Switzerland and Germany cofinanced the third phase of the ERP. These
donors provided an equivalent of about US$72 million which were used to finance general and petroleum
imports.
Results under ERC II
72.      A major focus of ERP was to stabilize the economy. In this respect, the program was
successful under ERC II. Inflation was in the 60 - 70 percent per annum range in the second half of
1989, but in the corresponding half of 1990, inflation was in the 20 - 25 percent per annum range. It
bottomed out at 19.8 percent in January 1991 and rose to 32 percent by the end of the year. Thus the
actions taken in the period of ERC II brought down inflation.
73.      The deficit on external current account remained unchanged between 1989 and 1990. Export
receipts fell in 1990 due to adverse terms of trade but imports also dropped sharply, leaving the BOP
deficit largely unchanged. Another sharp drop in imports occurred in 1991, leading to a fall in the BOP
deficit. While the current account was close to that envisaged in the program, the composition of trade,
with lower imports and exports, differed from what was programmed. The rate of growth of GDP fell
from 7.0 percent in 1989 to 4.5 percent in 1990 and 3.4 percent in 1991. However, the decline in the
growth of GDP was also, perhaps primarily, due to the drought which adversely affected agricultural
production in both 1990 and 1991.
74.      Many of the structural measures under ERC II were successfully implemented. The coffee
subsector was substantially liberalized, the monopoly of the Coffee Marketing Board was broken.
Cooperative unions and private companies were licensed to participate in the subsector. Interest rates
were raised, making them positive in real terms for the first time in many years. The import and export
trading was reformed and liberalized.
75.      One of the main areas of difficulty in reform in SSA has been the liberalization of the
exchange regime. In Uganda actions taken under ERC I and ERC II laid the foundation for the more
fundamental reforms to come. This started with tentative steps under ERC I with the introduction of the
SIP and continued under ERC II with the introduction of the forex bureaux. Further actions took place
under SAC I with the introduction of the foreign exchange auction and subsequently the replacement of
the auction with an inter-bank market for foreign exchange, where trading in foreign exchange is carried
on by the banks and bureaux with minimum intervention by the Bank of Uganda. These changes in the
foreign exchange market have occurred without disruptions in supplies of foreign exchange, and without
unanticipated shifts in exchange rates. This process of change has been made possible by close
consultation between the Bank, the IMF and the Government.
76.      Progress was slow in other areas. Expenditure control remained a serious problem under ERC
II. This undermined the stabilization effort. The objectives of the public sector management reform were
not achieved. The proposed agenda was too ambitious to start with, given the weakness of the Ministries
-15-



involved. The work on the teachers' payroll did not get the cooperation of the Ministry of Education and
Sports. This delayed the removal of ghosts and the computerization of the teachers payroll. Although
export licenses were replaced by renewable export certificates, this occurred in November 1991 rather
than the planned date of August 1990.
77.       However, the policy measures undertaken under ERC II formed the foundation for the more
fundamental measures that were to follow. They provided a learning experience for a wide range of
officials in implementing policy reform. This facilitated the implementation of reforms under the follow-
on program -- SAC I.
D.        The Main Lessons Learned
78.      The main lesson relates to the importance of Government commitment to the success of the
program. More commitment at the top level of Government and in the core economic ministries,
compared to under ERC I, led to better results. The Government appreciated the need for reforms, and
the country's dire need for foreign exchange reinforced Government's determination to implement the
program despite misgivings with some components. There was wide support for some components:
stabilization, and revenue mobilization; this made them relatively easy to implement. For others, -- civil
service reform, trade reform -- conceptual differences existed between the Bank and the implementing
agencies, hence the delays in getting the programs underway.
79.      ERC II was a wide ranging reform program, designed to be implemented by the core and line
ministries. The line ministries in particular lacked the capacity to implement the program. Their
commitment was weak, stemming from a poor understanding of the program and very little involvement
in its design. This delayed the implementation of the program, and in some cases, the planned objectives
were not met. Future adjustment credits should ensure wide participation in the design of the program.
80.      The appointment of an energetic coordinator, with direct access to the Minister of Finance,
facilitated the implementation of ERC II. The coordinator monitored the program closely and kept
regular contact with Bank staff at the Resident Mission and at Headquarters. This ensured that timely
corrective action was taken, and delays in implementation were brought to the relevant authorities. The
Economic Monitoring Committee helped with high level coordination.
81.      The persistence of the Bank, and some people in government, and the flexibility that the Bank
showed in the implementation of the program helped in the successes that ERC II achieved, and in
building a strong foundation for the more fundamental reforms that were to come.
-16-



PART II. PROIECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Background. Evolution and Development of the Program
82.      When the NRM Government came to power in January 1986, it inherited a society and an
economy in ruins. While political mismanagement of the previous post-1971 regimes had destroyed the
country's political and administrative infrastructure, their arbitrary administrative brutality and gross
mismanagement of the economy had sapped the country's moral fiber and destroyed the social and
economic infrastructure. The administration of justice had broken down, the once vibrant and growing
industrial sector had been disrupted and plant and equipment had badly depreciated and dilapidated;
agricultural output particularly that of the traditional export crops had declined; the civil service was in
disarray and demoralized; and there was rampant three digit inflation, largely caused by the acute
shortages and distortions in all economic sectors and markets.
83.      During the first year of its administration, while trying to bring the last pockets of armed
resistance under control, especially in the north and eastern parts of the country, the NRM Government
attempted to undertake the rehabilitation and recovery of the economy by increasing producer prices;
controlling the trade in essential commodities like sugar and salt; monopolizing the exports of coffee and
cotton in the hope that this would best maximize the source and use of the scarce foreign exchange;
arranging barter trade arrangements to acquire essential imports without use of convertible currencies and
by maintaining two levels of exchange rates, one for the essential and the other for the general imports.
84.      By the end of 1986 however, it became clear to the Government that the economic measures
it had undertaken were not achieving the desired results. Acute shortages in the economy continued and
by December 1986 the rate of inflation had reached a record level of 356 percent per annum. But above
all, due to an inadequate tax base for the generation of internal revenue, the Government was short of
necessary revenue to administer public services without resorting to heavy borrowing from the Central
Bank.
85.      In January 1987 therefore, the NRM Government approached IDA and the International
Monetary Fund for financial assistance, the design of a macroeconomic strategy that would underpin
economic recovery and growth, and the mobilization of additional external support. With the assistance
of the Bank, the Fund and other donors, the Government launched the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) in May 1987.
86.      The first phase of ERP was supported by the First Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I) which
was approved by IDA's Board in mid-September 1987. In implementing the first phase of the Program
the Government immediately took a number of important measures which included the devaluation of the
shilling by 77 percent; a currency reform which imposed a 30 percent conversion tax on currency and
bank deposits held by the public; substantial increase in crop producer and petroleum prices; and the
introduction of the Open General Licensing system which guaranteed access to foreign exchange at the
official exchange rate to a number of manufacturing firms in key industries.
87.      During the second phase of the Program, the Government tightened control over current
expenditure, set up an Economic Monitoring Committee and an Economic Analysis Unit to monitor
economic performance on a monthly basis. During the first nine months of the 1988/89 fiscal year the
exchange rate was cumulatively devalued three times by about 87 percent and interest rates were
-17-



increased by about 20 percent across the board between July 1988 and March 1989. The Government
extended 100 percent retention of export proceeds to non-coffee exports and restrictions on domestic trade
were removed.
88.      A combination of these measures during the two phases of the ERP resulted in an estimated
GDP growth of about 5.9 percent, and a substantial decline in the rate of inflation. But internal and
external imbalances, shortages and distortions in all markets still remained. The attainment of fiscal and
monetary discipline also remained elusive. The economic recovery efforts therefore needed to be pursued
further with vigor if the Government's aims of recovery and development were to be attained. It is with
this objective in mind that the Government of Uganda again approached IDA to extend to it the Second
Economic Recovery Credit which would be used to finance the third phase of the ERP.
89.      The Second Economic Recovery Credit was the fifth in a series of program lending extended
to Uganda after the war of 1979 to help the country to reconstruct, recover and adjust for development.
The first informal contacts in respect of ERC II began early in 1989 and from then on progress was
rapid. The Initiating Memorandum was drawn up in April 1989 and the credit was appraised from May
28 to early June the same year. Negotiations for the credit between Uganda Government and IDA started
in Kampala on November 2, 1989 and were concluded in Paris on December 2, 1989. A formal request
for an IDA loan equivalent to US$125 million was forwarded by the Uganda Government to IDA on
December 19, 1989. It was approved by the Board of IDA on February 1, 1990 and the Credit
Agreement was signed on February 8, 1990. The credit became effective on February 20, 1990. Its
planned closing date was December 31, 1991 but this was later extended to June 30, 1993 to enable the
Government to use up all the credit proceeds.
90.      The direct and primary use of the credit was the financing of 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs of an important proportion of the country's essential import requirements, particularly
recurrent inputs, spare parts, petroleum products, urgent replacement equipment for agricultural and
industrial production and selected essential consumer goods. Therefore, the first tranche of the Credit
was disbursed immediately on the Credit's effectiveness. A Uganda Program Coordinator for ERC II
was confirmed by IDA on February 23, 1990.
91.       The credit was intended to support the country's macroeconomic adjustment as well as
structural reform to enhance rehabilitation and development. To this end the Bank made the release of
the credit's second tranche conditional on the fulfillment of the following conditions by the Uganda
Government:
(a)    comprehensive tax and tariff structure reform;
(b)    recurrent and development budget expenditures in line with the fiscal targets
endorsed by the IMF as well as the Government's development priorities.
(c)   the preparation of a comprehensive plan for the liberalization of the export
marketing of coffee;
(d)   replacement of the export licensing system with renewable export certificates and
satisfactory implementation of actions to strengthen customs administration and
establish the ex-post monitoring system on the agreed timetable;
-18-



(e)    expansion of the establishment Register, Payroll Number Scheme, and
Computerization of staff lists to incorporate the Teaching Service and the Local
Authorities;
(f)    commencement of the implementation of the rationalization program covering the
Ministries of Agriculture, Public Service and Cabinet Affairs and two other
Ministries identified as having overlapping or duplicate functions.
92.      IDA was instrumental in mobilizing other donor support for the third phase of the ERP. The
donor contributions, all in the form of grants, amounted to US$72 million bringing the total package,
including IDA's contribution, to US$209 million. The contribution of donor cofinanciers was smaller,
by about US$40 million, than that under ERC I. The main difference was that ADF did not participate
in ERC II while it had made a concessional loan of US$35 million under ERC I. The administration of
the funds was much easier under ERC II. Except for the Canadian and Swiss grants, the rest of the
grants were efficiently administered by IDA. The Government commends the Association (IDA) for
mobilizing support from bilateral donors and administering the funds efficiently. The respective donor
contributions to the Program are indicated in the table below.
Table 1: ERC II Cofinancing Contributions
DONOR                   CURRENCY  AMOUNT    US $ EQUIVALENT
NETHERLANDS              NLG          35.000         19.182
SIDA GRANT 3             SEK         30.000           5.130
SIDA GRANT 4             SEK         74.000          12.294
CIDA GRANT               CDN          2.500           2.132
SWISS GRANT              CHF          9.827           6.846
KFW GRANT                DM          30.000          26.500
Total                                     72.087
Source: EDMO, Bank of Uganda
B.   Implementation of the Program
93.      The implementation of ERC II got off to a relatively fast start compared to its predecessor,
ERC I. However, because of the lack of ownership and understanding of the program by the various
officials involved in its implementation, there were some delays in meeting the conditions for the release
of the second tranche of the credit. By October 1990, the Bank was satisfied that the Government had
fulfilled the second tranche release conditions and the tranche was released on October 16, 1990. Two
further supplements to the credit, of US$2.011 million and US$1.667 million were obtained from IDA
on November 7, 1990 and January 9, 1992 respectively. ERC II was to have closed on December 31,
1991 but the Government requested and the Bank agreed to extend the closing date to June 30, 1993 so
that the Government could utilize all the proceeds of the Credit including those that had been extended
by the credit's cofinancing donors.
-19-



94.      One of the lessons learnt from the preceding ERC I program was that the initial advance for
deposit into the Special Account should be large enough to facilitate opening and confirmation of LCs
without any bottlenecks between turnaround of replenishment. For ERC II, the Association allowed a
very generous initial deposit of US$40 million.
95.      Special Accounts facilitate the disbursement of funds. The Association and all other co-
financiers, except the Swiss, allowed the use of special accounts. For the entire import support funding
of US$209.11 million, US$121.123 million, representing 57.86 percent was disbursed through special
accounts. The Swiss funds were the slowest to disburse because, first, there was no special account, and
second, the donor chose to hold the funds directly instead of passing them to IDA to administer. The
small CIDA grant was also slow to administer because, although there was a special account, the donor
held the funds directly and would release only doses at a time to IDA.
96.      The credit proceeds were allocated through the Open General License (OGL) system and the
Special Import Program (SIP), both administered by the Bank of Uganda. The number of firms eligible
to use the OGL was increased from 21 under ERC I to 63 under ERC II. The SIP provided foreign
exchange to importers at the official exchange rate on a first-come, first served basis. The users of the
SIP had to have available the local cover in order to purchase foreign exchange. With these two sources
of foreign exchange, and foreign exchange available from the foreign exchange bureaux, which had been
legalized in July 1990, the supply of essential imports was ample.
97.      The Technical Assistance provided by ERC II (ERC II TA) financed consultants to provide
assistance in oil procurement, records management systems for the Custodian Board, forex management
systems for the Bank of Uganda, and export monitoring and coffee budgeting. In particular, the
overhauling of the records of the Custodian Board was a most welcome aspect financed by the credit. The
proceeds from ERC II TA were also used towards the purchase of vehicles, computer equipment and
stationery for External Debt Management of the Bank of Uganda, the office of the ERC II Coordinator,
and Uganda Revenue Authority (URA). The equipment and vehicles provided to the URA enabled it to
get to a quick start.
98.      The implementation of the Program was closely supervised and monitored by both the IDA
and the Government. The first IDA Review Mission came to Uganda in April 1990. Several further
missions, including a Multi-Donor-Agency Joint Evaluation Mission (JEM) of November 1992, reviewed
the country's performance during the course of the program. RMEA Nairobi staff also made several
visits to Uganda and were most helpful in giving guidance and dealing with various questions related to
the disbursements under the program. The Bank's Resident Mission also played a major role in the
supervision and monitoring of performance and the Resident Bank staff worked closely with Government
officers involved in the implementation of the Program. The ERC II Coordinator closely monitored the
implementation of the program  and kept Bank staff fully informed of progress.  The Economic
Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance and composed of the ministers in key
economic portfolios, monitored progress at high level and asked for corrective action to be taken when
necessary.
C.  Evaluation of the Program
99.      The program performance may be evaluated by examining whether the policy measures
required by the program were met and the targets set under it were achieved. The objectives of ERC II
were to assist the Government to improve demand management, reform the tax regime, liberalize the
-20-



economy and revitalize the private sector, and rationalize the public sector management including civil
service reform.
100.     Demand Management. The results were encouraging. The Government brought bank credit
creation and the related problem of excessive crop financing under control, raised interest rates to more
realistic levels to encourage savings and put a check on excessive credit demand, and the exchange rate
was substantially devalued. The result was that inflation progressively fell from 65-70 percent per annum
in the second half of 1989, to 20-25 percent in the first half of 1991. Revenues rose rapidly, from
U Sh44.7 billion in FY88/89 to U Shl33.3 billion in FY90/91. However, Government realized that tax
administration was weak and that these rapid increases could not be sustained unless this was improved.
The establishment of the semi-autonomous Uganda Revenue Authority in 1991 was intended to improve
tax administration and maintain the momentum of rapid revenue growth. The Government made efforts
to improve budgeting and control of expenditures but results in this area were mixed.
101.     Tax Reforms. With the guidance of IDA and the IMF, the Government undertook a number
of measures to reform the tax system. These measures were to broaden the tax base, increase revenues
and simplify the tax system.
102.     Economic Liberalization and Private Sector Revitalization. Visible success was achieved
in this area. Most internal trade was freed from price and distribution controls, the monopolies of the
Coffee and Produce Marketing boards were broken and similar consideration was underway for the Lint
Marketing Board. Export and import procedures were simplified while the barter trade arrangements
were substantially reduced. Prices of domestically produced and imported goods, except petroleum
products were decontrolled, leaving them to be determined by the markets. The investment climate was
improved by the enactment of the Investment Code (1990) and the suspension of the Industrial Licensing
Act (1969). In 1991, the Investment Authority was established to promote investment and implement the
investment incentives provided for by the Investment Code.
103.     Public Sector Management. By January 1990 detailed payroll data on all 47 budget votes
had been compiled and work linking the payroll to the Establishment Register and staff lists was
completed in July 1990. Information on the Teaching Service and Local Authorities was completed in
1991 and the Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) completed its work at the
end of 1990. A number of ministries were selected for rationalization of their functions following a
review of the scope of their activities. In 1991, the number of ministries and agencies were reduced from
38 to 21 by combining functions. To begin the process of reducing the size of the civil service
recommended by the PSRRC, Government retrenched a large number of group employees. In addition,
a large number of 'ghost' employees were eliminated from the payroll. Government is continuing the
process of retrenchment and elimination of ghosts in order to build a smaller, more efficient civil service.
Conclusions
104.     The implementation performance under the third phase of the ERP, supported by ERC II, was
better than in the first two phases of ERP. The financing provided under ERC II (including the
cofinancing) enabled Uganda to buy essential imports for the rehabilitation of productive facilities. A
survey of major beneficiaries indicated that the funds played a key role in the maintenance of supplies,
both industrial and consumer, thereby maintaining and improving production and capacity utilization.
The major beneficiaries were also major contributors of Government revenues. The credit therefore
-21-



pool of counterpart funds from the project helped to ease Government budgetary constraints.
105.     Overall ERC II was successful in the execution of the policy reform objectives. Perhaps the
greatest gain from it was that it set the stage and helped finance the initial set-up in the liberalization of
markets in the fields of exports, imports and the exchange regime. It also laid the foundation for
improved revenue generation, investment promotion, public sector management reforms, and the
rationalization of government expenditures which were undertaken under SAC I.
-22-



PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: ERC II Cofinancing Contributions (see text table page 19)
Table 2: Credit Position
(Amount in US$ million)
Credit       Original     Disbursed    Canceled      Repaid       Outstanding
20870 UG     133.345      133.345       0.00         0.00         133.345
20871 UG     2.011        2.011         0.00         0.00         2.011
20872 UG     1.667        1.667         0.00         0.00         1.667
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (20870-UG)
(Amount in US$ million)
FY89/90      FY90/91      FY91/92      FY92/93       FY93/94
Planned      70.000       125.000       125.000      125.000      125.000
Actual       70.491       127.305       132.877      132.875      133.335
Table 4: Project Dates
Original           Actual
Initiating Memorandum      April 26, 1989     April 26, 1989
Letter of Development Policy  December 19, 1989   December 19, 1989
Negotiations              December 2, 1989    December 2, 1989
Board Approval             February 1, 1990   February 1, 1990
Credit Agreement          February 8, 1990    February 8, 1990
Effectiveness             February 20, 1990   February 20, 1990
Second Tranche Release     August 1990        October 16, 1990
Credit Closing            December 31, 1991  June 30, 1993
Completion                January 31, 1994    January 31, 1994
Source (Tables 2, 3 & 4): World Bank, Kampala.
-23-



Table 5: GDP at Factor Cost. 1987-1990. at Constant (1991) Prices (U Sh million)
SECTOR                        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991         1992
Agriculture                390,968     423,071     449,005     469,318     475,779      485,779
Mining & Quarrying           1,661       1,570       1,811       4,851        6,372       6,870
Manufacturing               53,888      64,184      73,387      76,908       84,963      90,850
Utilities                   10,755       9,508      10,301      11,574       13,770      14,299
Construction                81,723      89,129      99,659     104,948      110,650     115,155
Conunerce                  196,456     220,549     238,933     250,487     260,145      270,572
Transport &                 72,361      76,395      80,355      83,841       87,607      89,557
Communication
Other                      218,588     231,725     246,408     262,965     275,390      288,055
MONETARY GDP             1,026,400    1,116,131    1,199,859    1,264,892    1,314,678    1,361,137
NON-MONETARY GDP           583,194     617,420     654,564     673,242     689,376      707,551
TOTAL GDP                1,609,594    1,733,551    1,854,423    1,938,134   2,004,054   2,068,688
GDP PER CAPITA             106,649     111,791     116,388     118,390      119,144     119,698
'Other - Public services, rents and misccUaneous
Source: Statistics Departient, Ministry of Finauce and Econoaic Planning, Entebbe.
-24-



Table 6: GDP at Constant (1991) Prices - Percentage Annual Growth Rates. 1987-1992
SECTOR                        1987        1988         1989        1990         1991       1992
Agriculture                    2.9          8.2         6.1         4.5          1.4        2.1
Mining & Quarrying           -17.1        -5.5         15.4       167.9         31.4        7.8
Manufacturing                 16.4         19.1        14.3         4.8         10.5        6.9
Utilities                     10.7       -11.6          8.3        12.4         19.0        3.8
Construction                  50.8         9.1         11.8         5.3          5.4        4.1
Commerec                       8.3         12.3         8.3         4.8          3.9        4.0
Transport & Conun.             7.1          5.6         5.2         4.3          4.5        2.3
Other'                         3.2          6.0         6.3         6.7          4.7        4.6
MONETARY GDP                   7.7          8.7         7.5         5.4          3.9        3.5
NON-MONETARY GDP               4.5         5.9          6.0         2.9         2.4         2.6
TOTAL GDP                      6.5          7.7         7.0         4.5          3.4        3.2
PER CAPITA GDP                 3.7         4.8          4.1         1.7         0.6         0.5
Other = Public services, rents and miscellaneous
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance and Economnc Planning, Entebbe.
-25-



Table 7: Procurement. Production and Exports of Principal Agricultural Products (U Sb million}
COFFEE                   COTTON                     TEA                   TOBACCO
Year       Procure       Export  Production        Export     Procure       Export     Procure       Export
1987        167,067     148,153        2,754        3,443       3,511        2,100        1,214           0
1988        151,157     144,254        1,836        2,088       3,512        3,079       2,639           39
1989        169,042     176,453        3,210        2,321       4,658        3,195       3,456          490
1990        128,747     141,489        4,249        3,808       6,704        4,760       3,322        2,268
1991        147,369     124,819        8,212        7,819       8,877        7,018       5,140        2,467
1992        120,755     122,883        6,819        7,536       9,504        7,816        6,686       2,364
Source: Statistlcs Department, Ministry of 1lnance and Economic Planning
Table 8: Production of Selected Commodities
COMMODITY         UNIT              1987        1988         1989         1990         1991        1992
Meat              Tonnes             189         861          436          444           91         212
Procesed Milk     000 liters      16,898       20,885      17,112       17,319       21,319       22,705
Sugar             Tonnes              0         7,534       15,859      28,913       42,455       53,539
Beer              000 liters      16,881       21,493      19,516       19,421       19,529       18,718
Soft Drinks       000 liters       7,865       15,733       17,898      24,273       25,982       21,768
Fabrics           000 sq Ms       10,246       11,472      11,755        8,152        8,904        9,649
Paper             Tonnes             39          126          262          393         346          460
Soap              Tonnes          15,722       18452       27,110       30,552       33,284            -
Cement            Tonnes          15,905       14,960      17,378       26,920       27,138        7,755
Hoes              000 Pcs           633          519          532          803         784             -
Pencils           Gross            2,444        4,635       3,941        1,967        6,468        1,787
Iron Sheets       Tonnes            642          723        1,377        1,254        2,296       3,000
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance and Econormic Planning
-26-



Table 9: Index of Industrial Production (Base 1987  100)
INDUSTRY                   ESTABS      WT       1987      1988      1989       1990       1991      1992
Food Procesing               52+ +    20.70    100.0    128.0       153.7     174.9      227.4     245.6
Tobacco & Beverages             12   26.10      100.0    139.6      143.7     155.2      176.1      155.2
Tcxtiles & Clothing             13   16.30    100.0    121.8        132.7     116.3      110.9      111.9
Leather & Footwear               a    2.30      100.0     62.0      62.9       75.3       60.1      79.5
Timber Paper and Printing       23     9.00     100.0    135.1      169.4     183.6      198.2      223.4
Chemnicals, Paint & Soap        21    12.30    100.0    111.2       162.9     183.5      192.9     250.3
Cement & Brich                  14    4.30      100.0     94.5      109.0     154.2      162.6     203.1
Steel & Steel Products          19    5.30      100.0     87.2      98.9      107.7      149.3     190.7
Micellaneous                    17    3.70      100.0    134.0     204.2      181.3      251.2     271.7
ALL ITFMS                      179   100.00    100.0    123.7       145.2     155.5      178.2     191.2
ANNUAL PERCENTAGE
CHANGE                                           16.1     23.7       17.4       7.1       14.6       7.3
Table 10: Balance of Pavments (USS million)
ITEM                                 1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992
Exports f.o.b.                      379.0    406.8    333.6    266.3    277.7    177.8    173.8    150.2
Imports c.i.f.                     -264.1    438.2   -598.3   -658.2   -740.0   -617.6    474.4   -512.6
TRADE BALANCE                       114.9    -31.4   -264.7   -393.9    462.3    439.8    300.6   -362.3
Services (net)                      -98.9   -126.6   -113.5   -125.4   -108.8   -116.5   -197.5   -196.1
Unrequited Transfers                 61.0    209.6    266.0    322.4    311.6    293.0    324.4    424.4
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE              77.0     51.6   -112.2   -194.9   -259.5   -263.3   -173.7   -134.1
CAPITAL ACCOUNT BALANCE             -27.4     -3.9    121.2      45.7    317.5    177.5       34.9       6.1
OVERALL BALANCE                      66.9     92.0      28.1     -7.1      16.5    -85.8   -138.8   -128.0
Change in Grows Reserves             29.6      2.6    -24.8       2.3       2.3      11.6     -9.5    -51.8
Exceptional Financing                   -        -         -        -         -     34.6    103.3    150.9
IMF (net)                           -89.5    -94.5      -3.2      5.5    -18.8       40.0     45.1      28.3
Other (net)                          -7.0     -0.1      -0.1     -0.7      -0.1     -0.4      -0.1       0.6
TOTAL FINANCING                     -66.9     92.0    -28.1      -7.1    -16.5    -85.8   -138.8   -128.0
Source: Statistics Department, Ministzy of Finance and Economic Planning, Entebbe.
-27-



Table 11: Government Budgetarv and Financial Operations (U Sh million)
BUDGET           1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
REVENUES AND GRANTS:
Revenue          5005.0  22,262.3 49,719.0 86,458.7  136,807.8  187,900.8   287,111.2
Grants            -        -        -     24,891.2  143,189.0  185,908.6   281386.2
Total             -        -        -      111,349.9 279,996.8  373,809.4   568,497.4
EXPENDITURES:
Recurrent       8026.5  27,205.0 58,350.7 105,522.5  138,712.8  302,929.2   350.830.7
Development      -        -        -     63,741.7  214,079.5  258,483.5   380,094.4
Dom. Funded    2,237.1  16,048.7 12,072.9 21,469.0  52,070.0  36,706.6    31,803.3
Ext. Funded      -        -       -      42,272.7  162,009.5  221,777.0   348,291.1
TOTAL DEFICIT  -5,557.0 -5,499.1 -14,436.0 -57,914.4  -78,295.3  -196,103.3  -159,596.7
FINANCING:
External (net)   1,362.0  556.1   12,912.0 74,298.8  70,124.3  159,824.4   204,695.0
Domestic         4,195.0  4,943.0  1,524.0  16,384.4  8,171.0   38,798.9   -45,098.3
-Bank            2,182.0  4,481.0  978.0   19,326.4  3,700.0   42,447.6   -13,423.4
-Non-Bank        2,013.0  462.0   546.0   -2,942.0  5,709.0     -          3,023.4
Change in Arrears -     -        -       -         -1,238.0  -2,520.0    -34,698.5
TOTAL            5,557.0  5,499.1  14,436.0 57,914.4  78,295.3   196,103.3   159,596.7
Source: Background to the Budget, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, June 1993.
-28-



Table 12: Monetary Survey. 1989- 1993 (U Sb billion)
ITEM                                  March 1989      March 1990     March 1991      March 1992      March 1993
FOREIGN ASSETS (net)                       -36.91         -79.14         -136.67        -241.06         -238.83
DOMESTIC CREDIT:                            37.36          70.97          115.10         218.54          177.98
Govermnent                                   8.04           5.23           15.36          63.28            9.27
Private Sector                              29.32          65.74           99.74         155.26          168.71
MONEY SUPPLY
Foreign Accounts Deposits                       -              -               -              -           33.31
Currency in Circulation                     25.35          38.65           54.71          87.22          102.43
Demand Deposits                             21.07          36.52           52.80          83.78          102.84
Timne and Savings Deposits                   4.26          12.56           22.12          38.12           63.97
OTHER ITEMS                                -50.23         -98.87         -151.19        -267.45         -362.89
CURRENCY REVALUATION                       -38.65         -71.06         -131.20        -249.75         -256.32
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of F5nanae and Economic Planning, Entebbe.
-29-



Table 13: Structure of Interest Rates. 1987 - 1993
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992       Feb
Dec       July       Dec       Dec       Sept       Sept       Dec       1993
BANK OF UGANDA
Ways and Means                 5.0        5.0      15.0       15.0      14.0       14.0      14.0       14.0
Re-discount rate              35.0       32.0      38.0       48.0      43.0       40.0      40.0       36.0
Bank rate to Commercisl       36.0      31.0       45.0       55.0      50.0       46.0      41.0       37.0
Banks
TREASURY BILLS
35 Days                       30.0       23.0      33.0       38.0      34.0       35.0         -          -
63 Days                       32.0       25.0      35.0       40.0      36.0       36.0         -          -
91 Days                       35.0       28.0      38.0       43.0      39.0       37.0      34.0       20.0
GOVERNMENT STOCKS
5 Years                       40.0       30.0      40.0       45.0      40.0       40.0      42.0       42.0
10 Years                      45.0      32.0       42.0      47.0       42.0       42.0      44.0       44.0
15 Years                         -      35.0       45.0      50.0       45.0       45.0      47.0       47.0
COMMERCLkL BANKS
Deposit Rates:
Demand deposits               10.0        7.0      15.0       20.0      18.0       13.0       8.0          -
Savings Deposits              28.0       18.0      28.0       33.0      30.0       32.0      25.0       11.0
rune Deposits:
3-6 months                    25.0       15.0      28.0       33.0      30.0       34.0      28.0       14.0
4-12 months                   30.0       20.0      30.0       35.0      32.0       35.0      29.0       15.0
Minimum one year              35.0       22.0      32.0       37.0      33.0       36.0      29.0       15.0
Leading rates:
Agriculture                   38.0      22-25     32-35     25040         36       37.0      37.0       23.0
Export &Manufacturing         38.0         -          -         -          -         -          -          -
Commerce                      40.0      30.0       40.0       50.0      45.0       41.0
Soume: Statistiks Department, Ministry of Fnance and Economc Planning, Entebbe.
-30-



Table 14: Exchan2e Rates (U Sh/USS)
Year     Month        Bureaux Mid rate Off;iCal Mid rate  Premium
1990     July         637.39           440.00           44.86
August      697.19            450.00           54.93
September   730.87            480.00           52.26
October      725.27           480.00           51.10
November   750.00             510.00           47.16
December    768.50            540.00           42.31
1991     January      778.21           570.00           36.53
February    787.03            600.0            31.17
March        814.62           620.00           31.39
April        847.22           640.00           32.38
May         888.1             670.00           32.58
June        939.0             700.00           34.14
July         957.32           800.00           19.66
August      973.20            800.00           21.65
September   980.58            850.00           15.36
October      1,001.08         915.00           9.41
November    1,069.77          915.00           16.91
December    1,184.16          915.00           29.42
1992     January      1240.23          970.00           27.86
FebrUary     1260.08         985.48            27.86
Marcb        1249.80          1160.08          7.70
April        1207.81          1158.91          4.20
May          1216.18          1164.94          4.40
June         1224.69          1166.06          6.70
July         1248.35          1177.86          6.00
August       1256.09          1185.29          6.00
September    1233.07          1185.15          4.00
October      1222.21          1181.07          3.50
November    1241.26           1196.34          3.80
December    1248.50           1213.93          2.80
1993     January      1234.72          1217.12           1.40
February     1238.12          1217.09          1.70
March        1251.32          1217.52          2.80
April        1254.09          1218.09          3.00
May          1245.25          1213.27          2.60
June         1215.31          1199.09          1.40
Source: Bank of Uganda.
-31-



Table 1S: Composite Consumer Price Index (Base: September 1989 = 100)
Food    Beverages Clothing Rent,   Household Transport Other    All     Annual
&        &      Fuel &   Goods      &                Itencs     %
Tobacco  Footwear Utilities         Comm.                      Change
Weight  50.1     10.0    6.6        10.8    10.7      4.3     7.6       100.0
Year     Month
1990     Jun      100.3    118.5    131.7    153.6   114.0    136.4   135.3    115.7
Aug     102.3    124.8    139.2    153.5   119.1    146.9   143.2    119.4
Oct     119.3    127.6    140.7    163.8   125.4    166.5   150.1    131.5    24.8
Dec     118.2    139.7    144.6    166.2   129.8    166.7   152.3    133.4   21.1
1991     Mar    129.3    150.3    165.1    185.1   136.9    169.3   177.6    146.1    22.4
Jun     134.9    148.5    178.8    202.2   144.1    169.4   187.5    153.1    32.3
Sep     132.9    162.3    182.3    241.2   156.1    194.4   208.1    161.7   29.4
Dec     152.5    171.2    186.7   243.5   181.9    204.1   220.2    176.8   32.5
1992     Mar    195.8   219.2   220.6    264.7   218.2    245.9   266.3    216.8    48.4
Jun     251.3    233.8   224.0   299.5   224.9    267.2   300.7    254.5    66.3
Sep     234.6   282.2   233.9   309.2   226.6    294.6   332.1    256.3   58.5
Dec     233.5    269.0   240.6    321.7   223.8    295.1   341.8    257.0    45.4
1993     Jan     224.4   269.4   242.6    323.0   226.4    291.1   340.9    252.6    34.2
Mar    207.6    259.2   246.4    326.2   225.8    285.5   361.7    244.9    13.0
Jun     209.2    255.2   247.3    337.3   230.3    288.5   379.4    248.5   -2.4
Sep     210.9    317.7   230.5    352.8   241.0    288.6   386.2    257.7    0.6
The index is the weighted average of Kampala/Entebbe, Jinja, Mbale, Masaka and Mbarara.
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Flnaace and Economic Planning, Entebbe.
Table 16: Producer Prices for Maior Export Crops (U Sh tper kg)
Date       Robusta   Arabica   Flue-        FSre-      AR Seed   BR Seed    Green         Cocoa
Coffee    Ccffee     Cured      Cured       Cotton     Cotton     Leaf
Tobacco    Tobacco
May 1986   8.50       16.S2     10.0        7.00       4.00       2.00        1.40        5.50
May 1987   24.00     43.66      38.00       25.00       19.00      10.00      5.00        22.00
Jul 1988    60.00     110.00    220.00      117.00      80.00     42.00       20.00       75.00
Jun 1989    60.00     110.00    410.00      210.00      130.00    65.00       35.00       -
Jul 1990    75.00     180.00    480.00      480.00      160.00    65.00       35.00
Jul 1991    210.00    471.00    851.00      540.00     220.00     110.00      60.00
Mar 1992   240.00    440.00     950.00      570.00     340.00     170.00      80.00
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Flnance and Economk Planning.
-32-



Table 17: Uaanda Government Revenue CoOections (U Sb million)
Period       Income       Export    Customs  Excise Tax    Sales Tax         CTL      License,       Total
Tax         Tax        Duty                                           Fees and
Unallocated
1988/89        4,773       5,427       7,790        4,906      17,548         933         3,282      44659
1989190        9,458      13,449      25,0S5        7,247      28,288       2,005        4,024      89,556
1990/91       13,870      12,728      49,582       12,416      36,559       3,054        5,156     133,365
1991/92       23,638       2,005      76,588       15,026      43,319       5,417        14,335    180,328
1992/93       42,707           -      39,296       18,779      73,638       9,731        15,213    281,282
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Fnbance and Econoic Planning, Entebbe.
Table 18: Sale of Petroleum Products by TVne of Industry (Cubic Meters)
Period      Petrol        Aviation    Diesel        Fuel          Industrial    Kerosene     LPG          Toal
Fuel                      Oil           Diesel
1986        96,381        22,736      79,546        13,357        413          43,189       508          256,130
1987        101,540       30,000      85,238        18,200        580          41,022       850          277,430
1988        112,566       21,653      97,242        15,310        222          43,544       779          291,316
1989        123,673       31.946      108,536       13,156        136          47,220       562          325,229
1990        120,408       16,796       100,649       14,868       622          42,360       488          296,191
1991        109,512       17,546      92.672        12,809        0            34.562       567          267,668
1992        107,752       17,721      85,108        13,039        0            29,409       632          253,720
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planming, Entebbe.
-33-



Table 19: Consumer Prices fo. Petroleum Products (Kampala Pump Prices. U Sb per liter)
Year        Month        Premium     Diesel        Kerosene
1985         Jun         3.50        3.00          3.00
Dcc        6.50        5.00          5.00
1986          Aug        11.00       5.00          7.50
1987         Mar         12.50       6.50          8.00
May        30.00       19.80         14.40
Jun        32.00       22.00         12.00
1988         Jan         38.00       27.00         16.00
Jul        70.00       50.00         45.00
Nov        90.00       70.00         60.00
1989         Mar         120.00      90.00         75.00
Jul        145.00      110.00        90.00
Sep        180.00      145.00        110.00
Oct        200.00      160.00        130.00
1990         Feb         250.00      195.00        175.00
June       310.00      230.00        210.00
Aug        360.00      270.00        240.00
Sep        500.00      400.00        350.00
1991         Jul         650.00      500.00        460.00
Oct        680.00      530.00        500.00
1992         Jan         740.00      600.00        570.00
Mar        820.00      660.00        630.00
Jun        850.00      680.00        630.00
Jul        940.00      760.00        680.00
Aug        950.00      770.00        680.00
1993         Jan         920.00      770.00        700.00
Mar        850.00      750.00        680.00
May        910.00      780.00        690.00
Jun        910.00      810.00        690.00
Oct        950.00      830.00        710.00
Source: Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Entebbe.
-34-



Table 20: OGL and SIP Foreizn Exchange Allocations. February 1990 - March 1991
Year        Month         SIP III     OGL           TOTAL
1990        Feb          3.02         -             3.029
Mar          19.357       4.895        24.252
Apr          11.144      2.989         14.133
May          5.221        1.623        6.844
Jun          8.370        0.849        9.219
Jul          1.523        1.171        2.694
Aug          0.831        1.642        2.473
Sep          3.782       0.484         4.266
Oct          7.692       0.192         7.884
Nov          7.322       6.319         13.641
Dec          10.933      2.111         13.044
1991        Jan          6.507        0.941         7.448
Feb          4.783       0.063         4.846
Mar          8.317        1.267        9.584
TOTAL                     99.000      25.000        123.000
Souurce: Bank of Uganda
-35-



