                                               Document of
                                          The World Bank




                                                                                          Report No: 26081

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (CPL-34920)

                                                  ON A

                                                 LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$205.0 MILLION

                                                   TO

                             THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                  FOR

                                                    A

               MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                            (LOAN 3492-BR)




                                            October 30, 2003




This ICR was prepared based on the findings of the two ICR missions that visited the Rondonia and Mato
Grosso Natural Resources Projects in the first semester of 2003, as well as various contributions from the
Borrower and the Implementing Agencies. The ICR missions were led by Christoph Diewald (LCSES), and
consisted of Stael Baltar (LCSEN), Flavio Chaves (LCC5C), Francesco Vita, Marta Irving, Magda Lara
Resende, Pedro H. Z. da Conceição (consultants).

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                          Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$) at Appraisal, Real (R$) at
                                            Completion
                              Cr$306.69 = US$ 1.00
                            US$ 0.0036 = Cr$ 1.00
                   Rate at Completion R$3.00 = US$1.00
                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 1

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BERON          Banco do Estado de Rondônia
               (Bank of Rondonia)
BNDES           Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social
               (National Economic and Social Development Bank)
CAF             Corporación Andina de Fomento
CCZEE           Comissão Coordenadora do Zoneamento Ecológico Econômico
               (Federal Zoning Commission)
CEPLAC          Comissão Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueria
               (Executive Committee for the Cocoa Development Plan)
CIFA            Comitê Inter Instucional de Fiscalização Ambiental
               (Inter-institutional Environmental Law Enforcement Committee)
COFIEX          Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
               (Foreign Financing Committee)
EMATER          Empresa de Asistencia Técnica e Extensão Rural
               (Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA         Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária
               (Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise)
ENARO           Empresa de Navegação de Rondônia
               (Water Transport Company of Rondonia)
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
FEMA            Fundação Estadual do Meio Ambiente
               (State's Foundation for the Environment ­Mato Grosso)
FUNAI     Fundação Nacional do Índio
               (National Indian Foundation)
FUNDAGRO        Fundo Agrário
               (Agricultural Credit Fund)
GOB             Government of Brazil
GOMT            Government of Mato Grosso
GOR             Government of Rondonia
HQ              Head Quarters
IBAMA           Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis
               (Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources)
ICMS            Imposto Sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços
               (State Sales Tax)
ICR             Implementation Completion Report

IMF                 International Monetary Fund
INCRA              Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agraria
                  (National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERON             Instituto de Terras de Rondônia
                  (Rondonia's Land Institute)
MIN                Ministério da Integração Nacional
                  (Ministry of National Integration)
MTR                 Mid Term Review
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
PADIC             Programa de Apoio Direto às Iniciativas Comunitárias
                  (Community Initiative Support Program)
PAIC               Programa de Apoio às Iniciativas Comunitárias
                  (Community Initiative Support Program)
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PIC                Programa de Iniciativas Comunitárias
                  (Community Initiatives Program)
PLANAFLORO          Plano Agropecuario e Florestal de Rondônia
                  (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Projects)
POA                Plano Operativo Anual
                  (Yearly Implementation Plan)
POLONOROESTE        Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Noroeste do Brasil
                  (Northwest Integrated Development Program)
PPG7               Programa Piloto para Conservação das Florestas Tropicais do Brasil
                  Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests)
PRODEAGRO   Projeto de Desenvolvimento Agroambiental de Mato Grosso
                  (Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project)
PRONAF             Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar
                  (National Program for Family Agriculture Strenghening)
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SEDAM              Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Ambiental



                           Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                        Country Director:      Vinod Thomas
                          Sector Director:     John Redwood III
                           Task Manager:       Flávio Chaves

                                           BRAZIL
                            Mato Grosso Natural Resources Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          14
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            32
6. Sustainability                                                                35
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 36
8. Lessons Learned                                                               41
9. Partner Comments                                                              49
10. Additional Information                                                       50
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             51
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             52
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             54
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             55
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             57
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                58
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            59
Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop                                         61

Project ID: P006505                                                      Project Name: Mato Grosso Natural Resources
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Flavio Chaves                                               TL Unit: LCC5C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 31, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Mato Grosso Natural Resources Project                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-34920
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); General agriculture,
                            fishing and forestry sector (29%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (23%); General education sector (4%); Other
                            social services (4%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Other
                            rural development (P); Land management (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/21/1989                                        Effective: 12/15/1992
   Appraisal:    09/30/1991                                            MTR: 06/30/1995                10/01/1996
    Approval:    06/18/1992                                         Closing: 12/31/1997               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL/SEC REG DEV/MATO GROTATE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Hussain
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Armeane Choksi
Sector Director:                John Redwood III                               Phyllis Pomerantz
Team Leader at ICR:             Christoph Diewald                              Luis Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:             Christoph Diewald


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context.

The natural resources management projects in the neighboring states of Mato Grosso and Rondonia, known
locally as PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO respectively, are two very similar operations funded by the
Bank in the Brazilian Northwest (please note that, given the similarities between these two projects that the
present report has section 3, 5, 7 and 8 in common with report N.° 26080 - PLANAFLORO's ICR).
PLANAFLORO was the first one to be prepared and appraised, but both projects started at about the same
time (early 1993). The projects were seen as follow-up to the Bank's heavy involvement in that Brazilian
Northwest, a sub-region of the Legal Amazon Region, through the POLONOROESTE program in the
1980s, in the form of four loans of some $400 million altogether. This earlier program had earned the Bank
severe international criticism for contributing to destruction of rain forests by supporting the paving of
trunk roads, migration, settlements and agricultural development in the rain forest. Both projects were
intended to correct and compensate for the shortcomings of POLONOROESTE, and preparation of
PLANAFLORO began already as that program was winding down. Many lessons were learnt from
POLONOROESTE; however, not all of the lessons, including some of the most important (e.g., fully
understanding and taking into account the political economy of the frontier, the importance of full state
"ownership": of project objectives, the pitfalls as well as the advantages of decentralization and the critical
importance of adequate local institutional capacity), were incorporated in the new projects.

The rationale for Bank involvement both projects, as stated in the SARs, was based on three main factors:

i.   the Bank's lending program for Brazil was placing increased emphasis on environmental issues;
ii. the Bank was in a better position than during POLONOROESTE to assist Brazil in fostering more
     "rational" development of the Northwest sub-region; and
iii. there was a growing commitment within Brazil to sound environmental management, based on gradual
     strengthening of essential institutions and improved technical knowledge.

These assumptions were reasonable. The circumstances that underpinned the decision of launching
PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO were, however, unusual and merit mention:

-    The Bank was uneasy with the international view that it had contributed to deforestation in the
     Brazilian Amazon through POLONOROESTE. The Brazilian Government was similarly uneasy about
     its image abroad, particularly at a time when Brazil was to host a major international conference on
     Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro (June 92);
-    The Brazilian Government felt the need to take stronger action in frontier areas, given the history of
     their "predatory" occupation and the innovative environmental agenda set by the 1988 Federal
     Constitution, which declared the Amazon a national heritage area. Brazil had also recently launched the
     "Nossa Natureza" program which intended to address the way Amazon occupation was taking place
     and contained as an important element the concept of zoning; and
-    Poorer states such as Mato Grosso and Rondonia faced continued scarcity of resources, as a result of
     the drastic reduction of federal transfers that followed the 1988 Constitution.

The question of whether or not to finance a new project in the Amazon raised internal concerns and
controversy in the Bank, both in relation to the strategy and design of the projects, and because of doubts
about the true commitment of the Federal and State Governments to the environmental thrust of the



                                                       - 2 -

projects. Another failure in supporting a new intervention in the Amazon region would put the Bank's
already tarnished image further at stake. On the Brazilian side, many decision-makers responsible for
external financing shared those concerns and, although they recognized the need for federal support to
Mato Grosso and Rondonia to avoid further environmental deterioration following POLONOROESTE,
would rather not have external funds supporting the projects. The State Governments' views, in turn, were
quite pragmatic: the projects presented the best option to obtain federal transfers to finance some of their
need for investments and public services. The real extent of their commitment to the projects'
environmental objectives and components, however, was less firm.

Moreover, projects of this type and scope, which aimed at significant changes in the way these large
frontier states managed their natural resources over their entire territories, were unprecedented. The
challenge was even larger because there was considerable uncertainty and lack of experience in terms of to
what exactly would be required to make "sustainable development" a reality in the rain forest.

Evaluation of Objectives.

The Loan Agreement states the general objective of the Rondonia project as: "(...) to assist the Borrower
and Rondonia in managing the development and protection of the Amazon basin in the territory of
Rondonia".

Similarly, the objective of the Mato Grosso project, as in the Loan Agreement, was : "(...) to implement an
improved strategy for natural resource management, conservation, environmental protection and
sustainable development of the State, under PRODEAGRO."

This overall objective is highly relevant to the Bank and Brazil today, as reflected in the last CAS, and was
so to the Bank at the time of appraisal, while, as suggested above, it is doubtful that the environmental
elements in it had the same high priority for GOB, GOMT and GOR at the time. Legally speaking, the
Loan Agreement bound the entire Federal Government to its terms, but in practice, there were (and still are)
divergent and/or inconsistent interests and programs within GOB that did not feel bound by the objectives
of the projects ­ the most salient example being the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform, INCRA. This INCRA agency signed an agreement with both Rondonia and Mato Grosso to follow
their respective zoning plans , as a condition of loan effectiveness, but then went ahead with its settlements
in both states, at least initially, without any regard to the zoning prescriptions in effect, although at a much
slower pace than in the 1970s and 80s. With the perhaps unavoidable compartmentalization of the Federal
Government, it has been difficult for any one ministry to ensure consistency of federal actions.

The objective was, however, formulated in such a broad way that all parties concerned could subscribe to
it. It shows the imprint of the Bank's post-POLONOROESTE interest in better (less destructive) natural
resource management in the States, while acknowledging their (legitimate) development interests (just as in
the objectives of the G-7 funded Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests [PPG7], started at
about the same time). Indeed, it would have been difficult for the Brazilian Government to disagree with the
objective given the unfortunate experience of the 1970s and 80s in the Amazon and the internal and
external outcry that ensued and its environmental agenda.

The SARs for Rondonia and Mato Grosso provided a more concrete physical dimension to this objective,
by stating that success was to be measured in terms of the reduction in the annual rate of deforestation. As
it turned out, when the entire ten-year period of the project is considered, these rates were not reduced
although they did fall at the time of preparation, appraisal and startup. Thus (in hindsight) this objective
was not achieved.




                                                       - 3 -

The stated objective makes no specific reference to poverty reduction, which has subsequently become an
important focus in natural resource management projects, both for the Bank and GOB. The interests of the
poorer rural population were partially addressed, however, in the reformulated project design in 1997, even
though the projects' stated objectives did not change to reflect this.

While the term "improved strategy" in the objective for the Mato Grosso project is vague, the text of the
SAR and the structure of the project, as reflected in its components, make clear what was meant:

      "The project would assist the Government to:

  Rondonia (Ln. 3444-BR)                                    Mato Grosso (Ln. 3492-BR)
(a) institute a series of changes in key policies,          (a) support changes in policies, regulations and
regulations and public investment programs in               public investment programs to provide a coherent
order to provide a coherent incentive framework for         incentives framework for the sustainable
sustainable development in Rondonia;                        development of Mato Grosso;
                                                           (b) improve the knowledge of the natural
                                                           resource base, by providing more detailed data
                                                           on land capability and land tenure to establish
                                                           criteria for improving land management and for
                                                           biodiversity protection in the various
                                                           agro-ecological zones of the state;
(b) conserve the rich biodiversity of the State, while     (c) reduce environmental degradation and ensure
creating the basis for the sustainable utilization of its the long-term preservation of the biodiversity of
natural resources for the direct economic benefit of the the state, through the conservation of
local population;                                          ecologically significant samples of its territory;
(c) protect and enforce the borders of all conservation (d) protect and enforce the borders of all
units, Amerindian reserves, public forests and             conservation units, indigenous reserves public
extractive reserves, and control and prevent illegal       forests and control and prevent illegal
deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;            deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;
(d) develop intensive and integrated farming systems in (e) develop sustainable agriculture in areas
areas suitable for permanent agriculture and               suitable for permanent agriculture promoting
agro-forestry, and systems for sustainable forest          integrated agro-forestry farming systems, and
management and extraction of non-wood forest               systems for sustainable forest management in
products in other areas which should remain under          areas which should remain under natural forest
natural forest cover;                                      cover;
(e) support priority investments in socio-economic         (f) support priority investments in
infrastructure and services needed to implement the        socio-economic infrastructure and services in
State's agro-ecological zoning in already occupied and those areas where population should remain
deforested areas;                                          concentrated, in order not to undermine the
                                                           delicate ecological balance of the state;
(f) consolidate the technical and operational               (g) strengthen the technical and operational
capacity of State institutions, particularly those          capacity of the State institutions responsible for the
responsible for agricultural and forestry support           agro-ecological    zoning,     the   protection   and
services, and the protection and management of              management of the environment, and agricultural
State and Federal conservation units and                    and forestry support services.
Amerindian reserves.




                                                       - 4 -

The specific objectives are similar in both projects. The Rondonia version is less clear than the (later) Mato
Grosso one , as the former does not give an explicit motive for zoning, which is implicitly part of objective
(b). The Rondonia project is also more ambitious in terms of institutional strengthening. The specific
objectives were consistent with the emerging Brazilian environmental agenda in the early 90s and with the
concept of agro-ecological (and later ecological economic zoning) zoning ­ a pivotal element of the
PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO projects ­ advanced by Brazil since the 1980s. (The "Policy Notes"
offered recently by the Bank to the new Brazilian Government make similar points with regard to a strategy
for sustainable development and conservation of rain forests.) With the exception of items (e) through (f)
for Mato Grosso and (d) and (e) for Rondonia, above, these objectives were less consistent with the
prevailing "development" mentality of a large part of local society in each state, although certain less
articulated forest-dwelling groups, such as the rubber-tappers and indigenous peoples, would benefit from
better environmental management and protection and the clearer definition of property rights. In short,
numerous project objectives ran counter to the culture of young settler states at that time, specifically in
Rondonia, and both state governments were "ahead" of their societies in signing on to these objectives.

The specific objectives follow an intrinsic logic and strategy: To put order and "rationality" into land use,
spatial knowledge was needed. Zoning, based on such knowledge, was to guide land use and land
conservation. While the "second approximation" of zoning was being prepared under the project, the less
refined "first approximation" undertaken before project takeoff would have to do. Policies and programs
based on zoning would provide incentives for private agents to behave accordingly. Creation and protection
of conservation units and indigenous lands would effectively set aside part of the land and shield it from
traditional forms of development (i.e, agriculture, ranching and mining). Groups using the standing forest
for a livelihood would be benefited. . Intensifying land use in areas more appropriate for rural productive
activities and introducing new forms of land use (such as agro-forestry) with the support of directed credit
would reduce economic and population pressure on primary forests. To that end, technologies would be
developed and disseminated making intensification more attractive. Infrastructure and services would be
provided only in these areas to further enhance their attractiveness and to retain the population within such
areas ("fixar o homem no campo" ­ root people in the rural areas, as this strategy is referred to in
Portuguese).This logic appeared valid after the experience with POLONOROESTE. However, it was
predicated on certain assumptions that turned out to be shaky:

-   Forest clearing is "irrational" behavior, and people could be induced to desist from clearing land by
    offering better knowledge of its potential (or lack thereof) and alternatives;
-   Better knowledge by itself would lead to changed behavior;
-   Intensifying land use in suitable areas would by itself diminish pressure on remaining forests;
-   Offering better technology and infrastructure would induce economic agents to behave in accordance
    with zoning; and
-   State institutions would be willing and capable, with assistance from the project, to provide adequate
    rural technology and basic infrastructure and services.

Recent Bank sector work has shown that cattle ranching is a major driving force of deforestation in the
parts of the Amazon, and that ranching on pastures cleared from Amazon rain forest, in its final
commercial stage of development, is not necessarily the low-return activity frequently assumed; nor is it
necessarily unsustainable from a private perspective. Moreover, the economic logic of land use in a forest
frontier is based on the perception of abundance of the resource and thus on its extensive use ­ the areas
that have been "mined" for their nutrients can be readily replaced by fresh ones through extension of the
frontier. Intensification happens where relative land prices are rising as a function of proximity to growing
urban centers and local road infrastructure. But intensification does not necessarily diminish the drive to
clear new areas on the moving frontier, as long as the forest beyond is considered abundant and the


                                                      - 5 -

underlying ecosystems are suitable for production.

The project's logic and strategy did not ignore the central issue of tropical forest use and conservation, i.e.,
the discrepancy between the private and the social gains/losses from specific land uses (externalities), but
was clearly optimistic in the implicit assumption that project activities by themselves could adequately
address it. Reformulation of the project following the MTR and introduction of a new component
(community-driven sub-projects, mostly of a productive nature) was also ineffective in overcoming the
externalities problem and changing behavior on a sufficiently large scale to fundamentally alter this
underlying tension. Overall, project design relied essentially on a top-down, command-and-control
approach based on prescriptive zoning, creation of conservation areas and enforcement of environmental
law, coupled with supply-driven technology and incentives through improved infrastructure.

In addition, the projects did not address the concerns and calculations of loggers, ranchers and even
small-holder settlers, and these groups were not included as stakeholders or consulted in their original
design. Little emphasis was placed on economic instruments to influence private behavior, although the
project aimed at stimulating economic alternatives in standing forests, such as sustainable forest
management (logging) and extractivism .

The sheer number of specific objectives (six and seven, respectively) reflects the extreme complexity of the
projects. While project design did follow a coherent logic, as in the case of their predecessor program,
Polonoroeste, the attempt to put all elements of the strategy simultaneously into a single operation,
especially where full local "ownership" of the multiple objectives was lacking, clearly overloaded it with an
unmanageable number of components.

The specific objectives provided the general direction for project implementation, but were not explicit as to
the extent to which these objectives were to be reached. No targets or indicators were set to permit
measurement of achievements in relation to each specific objective, with the result that they were overly
broad and ambitious, exceeding by far local implementing capacity.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Context.

By 1995, the Rondonia project had run into considerable trouble with local and international NGOs,
culminating in an appeal to the Inspection Panel by the Rondonia NGO Forum , strongly supported by
international NGOs. In addition, the relationship of NGOs with the state government had deteriorated
badly. Reasons for NGO dissatisfaction were:

-   the poor performance of the agro-forestry and socio-economic infrastructure and services components,
    executed by weak state agencies;
-   the lack of interest in the project on the part of the new Government of Rondonia;
-   the continuing advance of new INCRA settlements into unsuitable zones which threatened
    forest-dwelling and indigenous communities and ran counter to the entire project strategy;
-   the lack of progress with creation of extractive reserves and demarcation of indigenous lands; and
-   the exclusion of civil society organizations and grass roots communities from actual project
    implementation and their demand for decentralization of decision making and actions to the community
    level.

As part of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 1996, a team of independent Brazilian consultants undertook a



                                                        - 6 -

comprehensive review of project design and implementation. The MTR addressed the complaints of civil
society and proposed design changes which were introduced in 1997 and implemented from 1998 onwards.
These changes were discussed with the federal and Rondonia state agencies, all relevant stakeholders,
including those groups not benefiting from the project, international NGOs and the Bank in June 1996. The
revised design was applied almost identically in the Mato Grosso project, which had shown similar
performance problems, however, with much less attention and participation of state and international
NGOs.

The restructured projects were intended to conciliate different demands, reduce direct funding of state
agencies in favor of stronger civil society participation and a new community-driven development
component. They continued, however, to respond to the States' interest in road improvements. The new
components (called PAIC in Rondonia and PADIC in Mato Grosso) replaced the original Agro-Forestry
Development and Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services components (see item 3.3 below) as an
attempt to respond to actual demands from poor rural communities in a more participatory and efficient
way. The rationale was to channel project funds directly to communities to improve the quality of project
implementation and ownership at the community level and allow more effective and adequate solutions to
community needs. The proposal drew on the community-driven development approach adopted by the Bank
in its Northeast rural poverty reduction projects and in the PPG7 Demonstration Projects, and already
experimentally introduced in Rondonia in 1995 in the form of "Community Initiatives Projects" (PICs). The
MTR report did not foresee the total exclusion of state agencies from the project (as later happened), but
suggested that their services would be contracted by community associations.

Evaluation.

The reformulation of both projects did not formally involve any change in their principal project objective
in the Amendments to the Loan Agreement, but specific objectives were implicitly adjusted by the
elimination of components and introduction of PAIC/PADIC. The language of the specific objectives of the
Rondonia project, however, was edited to (a) make zoning an explicit goal, and (b) substitute the objective
"develop intensive and integrated farming systems in areas suitable for permanent agriculture and
agro-forestry, and systems for sustainable forest management and extraction of non-wood forest products
in other areas which should remain under natural forest cover", to read "support rural socio-economic
development and conservation initiatives at the local level".

The revised projects responded to strongly expressed demands of civil society organizations, but deviated
from the original strategy and logic in the process. What was intended as a different way of implementing
the projects with unchanged objectives, in fact resulted in abandonment of the initial spatially differentiated
strategy, particularly the development of more intensive land use in the zones more suitable for agriculture
and ranching (of the "first approximation") -- an essential part of the original logic underlying the project
approach. Some of the socio-economic infrastructure and services development was to be taken up under
the new component. While this component was initially meant to buffer and thus support conservation and
protection efforts in the zones that were to retain forest cover, after reformulation, in practice it was applied
throughout the two states, regardless of zones, and supported "rural socioeconomic development and
conservation objectives" in a very general way, for small farmers and traditional forest-dwelling
populations alike. As a consequence, the original logical nexus between                specific objectives and
components became fuzzy. On the other hand, , the reformulation de facto added objectives, namely
improving quality of life of rural communities and increasing family incomes (with a view towards poverty
reduction), promoting their social organization as well as their inclusion and more active role in the
development process, strengthening administrative capacity at the level of communities and associations,
and strengthening of civil society organizations as mediators/partners between communities and
government. Demonstration and dissemination of agro-ecological production technology appropriate to


                                                      - 7 -

each zone was mentioned, but never actually implemented . The project would have become a more typical
rural development or poverty reduction project, had the zoning and environmental components not been
continued.

If the original focus of the projects was on land, maps, technologies for farming and forest management,
law enforcement, etc., following reformulation their attention turned more to people, their needs and quality
of life, and their role as agents of change of awareness and behavior. There has been considerable debate
since the MTR whether the new decentralized demand-driven component was still pursuing environmental
objectives (a particular concern of the Bank and international NGOs), or whether the focus was more
exclusively on production, income generation, infrastructure and political inclusion which were the main
concerns of the local communities themselves. The Bank insisted on mandatory environmental content,
while many local civil society organizations, which saw improved conservation of natural resources as a
consequence once greater quality of life at the community level had been established , resisted this.

3.3 Original Components:

PLANAFLORO initially consisted of four components with 15 subcomponents, and PRODEAGRO had
five components with 20 subcomponents:

   Rondonia                                               Mato Grosso
                                                          (a) Refinement of Agro-ecological Zoning and
                                                          Land Tenure Regularization ($40.0 M), including
                                                          land zoning, mapping and land regularization
                                                          activities, with priority assigned to those areas
                                                          where establishment of conservation units and
                                                          indigenous reserves would occur, and areas where
                                                          the need for land tenure regularization is more
                                                          acute or where tenure conflicts had already started.
 (a) Environmental Conservation, Management and         (b) Management, Protection and Monitoring of
 Protection ($64.8 M), including land zoning,           Natural Resources ($54.4 M), including
 mapping and regularization; establishment,             establishment, management and protection of
 management and protection of conservation units andindigenous reserves; environmental protection,
 Amerindian reserves; sustainable forest management;pollution control, strengthening of forestry police
 extractive reserves; environmental protection; and     and monitoring of protected areas, training and
 institutional strengthening, technical assistance and technical assistance.
 studies.
 (b) Agro-forestry Development ($81.4 M), including (c) Agro-forestry Development ($70.2 M), including
 agro-forestry research, rural extension, rural credit  rural extension, agro-forestry research, rural credit,
 and input supply.                                      and market information systems.
 (c) Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services         (d) Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services
 ($56.9 M), including a two-year time slice of          ($65.4 M), including strengthening of the
 essential activities in health, education and water    infrastructure related to health, education, water
 supply, and a five-year time slice of road and river   supply, rural electrification, and rehabilitation of
 transport activities.                                  rural roads.
   (d) Project Administration, Monitoring and             (e) Project Administration and Technical
   Evaluation and Technical Assistance ($11.2 M),         Cooperation ($11.9 M), including installation and
   including, inter alia, the yearly contracting of an    operation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
   Independent Evaluation Committee,with                  Cuiabá, supported by an independent technical



                                                      - 8 -

  participation of NGO representatives, to evaluate       cooperation group responsible for advising the
  project progress and recommend any needed               PCU with respect to project monitoring and
  changes in strategy or content.                         evaluation, and for recommending any needed
                                                          changes in project strategy and content.



Despite some small differences and the fact that zoning and land regularization have been separated out in
the Mato Grosso, the two projects have essentially the same content. Given the objectives and strategy, the
structure of the components was logical and consistent, and based on an attempt to incorporate at least
some of the lessons of POLONOROESTE.

Zoning was the crucial component as it was intended to determine where the other components would be
targeted. Both states already possessed a crude zoning plan and associated laws before project start, but
this was either largely ignored by public and private agents alike as in Mato Grosso, or was highly
controversial and poorly accepted, as in Rondonia. Hence the need for a "second approximation" or
refinement of the existing zoning funded under the project. In practice, however, all project components
were initiated simultaneously, so that the "first approximation" necessarily was established as the guide for
the location of other project investments. Indeed, the Loan and Project Agreements "obliged" the federal
and each state government to orient their investment programs strictly by the prevailing zoning law.

All components were to be executed by state and federal sector agencies, more than 20 in each project.
There was no implementing role for local governments, civil society organizations or producer associations.
The attempt to apply the multi-pronged strategy (zoning, conservation and protection, agricultural and
forestry development, infrastructure and social services) made for an exceptionally complex design. This
would have challenged any strong, well-organized and well-managed government. For the state
governments involved, it was virtually impossible to implement coherently and completely. The capacities
not only of project coordination but also of most of the numerous implementing agencies were more than
challenged, they were far exceeded, even with all the technical assistance built into the project. This critical
weakness -- i.e., over ambitious design in the face of less than full government "ownership" of project
objectives and very poor local institutional capacity -- had already been clearly identified as a very serious
design flaw in the evaluation of Polonoroeste previously carried out by OED but was not adequately taken
into account in preparation of the follow-on projects.
3.4 Revised Components:

The restructured projects following the MTR were approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in October
1997 on a no-objection basis, and amendments to the legal agreements were signed in February 1998. As
already discussed, project reformulation resulted in the elimination of the original Agro-Forestry
Development and Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services components and most of their
sub-components, but retained road improvements, which the respective state governments continued to be
very interested in. The two eliminated components were replaced by the demand-driven community
development components (PAIC and PADIC), funded with US$ 38 million in Mato Grosso and US$20
million in Rondonia. The restructuring required reallocation of the loan proceeds and extensions of the
respective closing dates.

The new components (PAIC and PADIC) had no subcomponents and were not restricted to any particular
zone of the states. Rural communities were expected to identify and implement investments in local
infrastructure, education and health facilities, productive investments in agriculture, agro-forestry and
processing, and environmental conservation and rehabilitation measures. Their implementation structures
involved only the project coordination unit in each state as implementing agency, together with the transfer



                                                      - 9 -

of funds to an account jointly held by each community association and the project entity. This represented a
significant operational simplification and increased the volume and timely flow of funds to rural
communities. The revised design, however, made unrealistic assumptions about the availability of
knowledge about innovative technologies and of truly qualified technical assistance to support the
communities. Technical screening of proposals, selection processes, supervision and monitoring were all
foreseen, but were not adequately taken into account in the arrangements to carry out these activities.
Component design included, in Mato Grosso only and at the Bank's insistence, a requirement that all
sub-projects should have an environmental component corresponding to at least 30% of their cost. This was
later dropped as it was only been complied with in a superficial way.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


The breadth and lack of concrete dimensions/indicators of the project development objectives have already
been mentioned in item 3.1 Original Objective above.

A decisive factor, particularly for this unprecedented kind of project, was ownership. Despite the
consistency of the projects' declared objectives with Brazil's environmental agenda at the time, it is not
clear that the Federal Government attributed high priority to the project beyond its potential positive impact
in terms of the country's international image. For decades, the objectives of the Borrower and, even more
so, of the states in frontier areas had been largely political and geopolitical in nature aiming at the
demographic and economic occupation of frontier lands, the expansion of the agriculture through directed
settlement/agrarian reform projects and, the promotion of extensive cattle ranching activities. The specific
objectives of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO diverged radically from these traditional concerns. The
State Governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, the actual project implementers and loan beneficiaries,
nevertheless appeared to accept the projects for the advantages they would bring (resources for
infrastructure and services), rather than their alleged environmental thrust, which ran counter to the
prevailing development culture of local e society at large and important political interests in the two states.
The driving force in terms of the projects' environmental objectives was clearly much more the Bank and to
a lesser extent the Federal Government, than the principal local stakeholders. .

Also in relation to the ownership issue, the project would have benefited from a careful analysis of the
interests of all important local stakeholders ­ which included not only beneficiaries but those that could
potentially be adversely impacted by the project or limited in their freedom to act, including the private
sector (loggers, timber industry, ranchers and new settlers) and agencies such as INCRA. Important
groups, especially in Rondonia, where the state government made serious attempts to enforce the first
zoning law, did not support the conservation and protection thrust of the project, subsequently caused
serious problems and saw nothing in the projects that would benefit them in return. Representatives of local
governments and civil society were included ­ in the Project Council, but private sector representatives
were not. In sum, the projects could affect ­ in theory ­ virtually everybody in the rural areas of both
states, but there was little local ownership and support for (or even knowledge of) them at the time they
were prepared.

Civil society participation in government projects was certainly not the norm in the early 1990s. It is thus
worthy of note that civil society representatives were to be included in the Project Council and in
component-specific monitoring committees that would oversee and make strategic and operational decisions
on the project implementation. This was an important innovation with which neither the Bank nor the
country were familiar. This level of participation, restricted to seats on committees, however, did not yield
the expected space for civil society which brought turbulence during the first years of the project



                                                    - 10 -

implementation, especially in Rondonia, and was one of the factors leading to the complaint to the
Inspection Panel.

One of the main assumptions ­ that agro-ecological zoning would provide a solid technical basis for project
design and implementation ­ entailed the use of a new tool with which neither the Bank, the state
governments, nor the Borrower were truly familiar. Some reviewers within the Bank pointed to the risk of
building project objectives and design on the preliminary stage of zoning ­ based on maps at a scale of
1:1,500,000. Implementation proved, indeed, that the "first approximation" included mistakes, such as the
zoning of areas for conservation where settlements had already been established. . Had appropriate
safeguard policies been in place at the time, some mistakes might have been avoided. Since the "second
approximation" of zoning was expected to be available relatively soon, this risk was underestimated.
Methodologically, there were no precedents for rural zoning on such a grand scale anywhere. The Rondonia
SAR did not describe the nature and process of zoning; it mentioned only "the preparation and distribution
of statewide agro-ecological, climatological, soil and topographic maps", and treated this as "works" for
procurement purposes. The long delays until consulting contracts could be signed for the zoning work in
both projects, including extended discussions on the terms of reference, also show that none of the parties
clearly understood what zoning would actually entail. Even today, there still is debate whether zoning
should be "indicative" (i.e., providing information on land use options) or "normative" (binding by law).
Be that as it may, the long delay in preparing for and implementing zoning work significantly affected the
implementation of some project activities and increased the dissatisfaction among groups whose economic
activities were contingent upon the findings of the "second approximation". The terms of reference for this
crucial task should have been ready before effectiveness, while the whole process should have involved
much greater participation in the part of the entire range of local stakeholders rather than being a largely
top-down (and extremely costly) technocratic exercise .

From the technical preparation point of view, areas slated for conservation units were not always identified
properly beforehand, perhaps owing to the crudeness of the first approximation, , and contained significant
numbers of settlers in several cases. They were thus not suitable for the establishment of conservation
units.

Supervision, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were a clear concern for the Bank, and lessons were
learned from the POLONOROESTE experience. The SARs mention several design elements for
supervision and M&E: the executing agencies' own monitoring and reporting, a central project M&E unit,
also in charge of monitoring land use change in relation to the zoning plan and encroachments on
conservation and indigenous areas, routine Bank supervision, and the MTRs. In addition, a State Council
for the projects, chaired by the Governor of each state and comprising representatives of municipal mayors'
associations, NGOs and all implementing agencies, would convene at least every quarter, while an
Independent Evaluation Committee, in which NGOs would also participate, would meet annually to
monitor project environmental and social performance and the compatibility of government investment
programs with the zoning plan. Conscious of the sensitivity of the projects and the risks involved, the Bank
established a field office in Mato Grosso as implementation started (February 1993), to closely supervise
and support both the PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO projects. Substantial technical assistance for
M&E through UNDP was planned.

Detailed physical targets for each component and sub-component were defined and included in the SARs.
These referred mainly to specific outputs (establishment of conservation areas and reserves, demarcations,
training activities, farmers attended, buildings, etc.) and in some cases to inputs (field visits, man-years,
etc).




                                                    - 11 -

The SARs were much less specific with regard to project impacts. They mentioned broad indicators, such
as the reduction in the annual rate of deforestation, improved environmental preservation, protection of
indigenous lands, economic utilization of designated areas, prevention of unsustainable agricultural
activities, and reducing the rate of in-migration. But no specific qualitative or quantitative targets were
given. A baseline study was to be prepared for three municipalities in both states. It is, however,
noteworthy that the project was to fund an evaluation system to provide continuous environmental
assessment, with analysis of remote sensing images and aerial photography and the establishment of a
specially trained team within the project coordinating unit.

The Legal Agreements established a deadline, shortly after project start, for adoption of indicators and
procedures, but they were never adopted by the project units in either Mato Grosso or Rondonia.
Furthermore, a revised M&E system, developed as a result of agreements reached after the MTR, became
available too late to have any impact on the implementation of the project.

The POLONOROESTE experience was interpreted by the project preparation team to show the need to
decentralize project implementation from the federal to the state level. However, both states had very weak
institutions at project start, as the implementation history has clearly shown. The SARs state that the
organizational structure, staffing, operating practices and budget of each of the principal agencies to be
involved in project execution had been reviewed, and they are frank about the limitations. Nevertheless, in
hindsight it is evident that the review may not have been thorough enough. What was not analyzed were the
guiding values and the internal and external incentives for staff to perform within a clear mission of the
agency. The admittedly limited implementation capacity of project agencies was addressed in the design by
inclusion of a heavy capacity building component, which encompassed an extensive training program, the
assignment of new staff, provision of continuous technical support through a cooperation program with
UNDP, and consultant services. It even included improvement in personnel policies. Project implementation
revealed that, in addition to the slow agency response (which required more training than envisaged and
increased the costs of both PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO), the state government did not properly
disseminate the project among the implementing agencies during preparation nor did it sufficiently prepare
them for their roles. As a result, roles were unclear and understanding of project objectives and strategy
was poor. The combination of these constraints, together with insufficient political commitment to the
project strategy and lack of forceful management, undermined the coordination mechanism that was
intended to guide and integrate the activities of the many implementing agencies. The high-level State
Council referred to above hardly met.

 Project coordination was to be located within each state's Planning Secretariat, but was to coordinate (not
command) around twenty other agencies reporting to other state Secretariats. "Coordination" alone in the
case of such large and complex projects is insufficient, and true management, going beyond coordination, is
required. Management must be where the political power (over other agencies) is, i.e., in the Governor's
office, and even there delicate political relationships need to be respected. While largely independent,
parallel (sub)components were indeed overseen, monitored and to some extent "coordinated" by the project
coordination units, but there was no integrating force with the power and overall vision to steer these entire
complex projects towards their objectives. This was a serious flaw in the implementation arrangements.

In addition, no provisions for sustainability of what the projects were to create in the states were built into
the projects. The heavy reliance on UNDP-facilitated staffing, funded out of the loans, and lack of phasing
out reliance on the loan significantly undermined project sustainability.

The project design attempted to incorporate some, but by no means all, of the lessons learned from
POLONOROESTE. According to the SAR, in designing a new project for a frontier area with a fragile


                                                    - 12 -

natural environment, it would be necessary to:

-  Decentralize the implementation to the State level and strengthen its implementation capacity ­ this was
   a main rationale for creating state projects. But the dependence on the flow of federal resources,
   including loan resources, was maintained and strong local economic and political incentives to continue
   predatory occupation, resulting in continued environmental degradation, were essentially overlooked.
-  Give an increased role to NGOs in project implementation to enhance accountability and improve
   responsiveness of the project agencies. In project design, however, NGOs were restricted to
   participation in councils and committees, but not directly involved in implementation.
-  Build the design on a tool that would provide better technical information about the sustainable
   development potential of the various sub-areas within the state, i.e., on zoning.
-  Undertake an appropriate analysis of the policy and legal framework governing the land use standards
   in the project area, which was addressed in the "Matrix of Main Environmental Policy Issues,
   Measures and Actions" codified in side letters to the legal agreements.
-  To ensure that project interventions would be sufficient to achieve their objectives, they should not only
   support parts of states without addressing the movements of populations and patterns of occupation.
   While, in retrospect, it is clear that the true determining factors of continued frontier occupation were
   not properly addressed, the projects did attempt to take a statewide, strategic view.
-  Where agricultural success depends on credit and if prevailing credit conditions are not suitable, create
   (in exceptional circumstances warranted by significant environmental or poverty reduction objectives)
   an alternative, project-specific solution to ensure credit availability to agricultural production, which
   was addressed by including a special credit line (FUNDAGRO) in both projects.
-  Innovative projects with above-average risks need a monitoring and evaluation system oriented to
   generate early warnings and project design should provide considerable flexibility to allow for
   corrective measures. The project design contained such system.
-  Farm development in relatively unknown or difficult environments should be given longer start-up
   periods and less optimistic assumptions should be made about the speed of farm development. This was
   not specifically addressed in the projects.
-  Where a multitude of implementing agencies is involved, create coordination mechanisms with
   sufficient authority (including control over budgetary resources). This was insufficiently ­ addressed
   by the establishment of Project Councils and budgetary control in the Planning Secretariats. As noted
   above, the issue is not coordination, but management.

.

Risks.

Finally, the SAR identified the following major risks to project implementation and ways to address them:

-a Inadequate knowledge about natural resources, to be addressed by further zoning under the projects.
-b Encroachment of conservation areas and indigenous lands ­ control and mitigation measures to be
   addressed through project strategy and design.
-c Unanticipated factors increasing environmental degradation (migration, weather, plant diseases) ­ to be
   addressed through M&E measures built into then projects.
-d Fiscal difficulties in the states and restrictions on hiring of adequate staff ­ to be addressed by a
   strategy of the state governments presented at negotiations to ensure that executing agencies would be
   able to recruit and retain adequate staff, by close monitoring of the staffing situation, technical
   assistance to and staff training for key institutions and supervision by Bank and Federal Government.




                                                      - 13 -

The SAR recognized the seriousness of these risks but concluded that "the alternative of inaction would
pose far greater risks ... to the remaining natural forests". In hindsight it is cleat that Item (a) above was not
really a risk, as the project itself was to create the necessary knowledge, but the lack of clarity about what
zoning entails did pose a risk, which was not recognized. Item (b) was clearly a risk, although not a major
one, as experience has shown that the limits of protected areas are not fully, but still reasonably, respected,
in part due to project activities. Item (c) was indeed a risk, less so for the possible factors mentioned in the
SAR, but rather due to the fact that the dynamics of land occupation and underlying political economy of
frontier areas were underestimated and poorly understood. As it turned out, fiscal constraints did not affect
staffing levels and quality (although this may have been a reasonable fear at the time), but they had other
severe consequences for implementation. Staffing constraints were, rightly or wrongly, overcome to a large
extent through the UNDP hiring mechanism (traditionally heavily used in foreign-financed projects in
Brazil and now restricted by Presidential Decree) and bonuses paid by UNDP.

Other major risks, however, were not identified. The overall weakness of the many state agencies was
recognized at appraisal, but turned out to be a much more significant risk than initially anticipated. Again,
technical assistance was proposed to remedy this deficiency. Another risk related to the structure of the
loans, which were extended to the Federal Government as Borrower, but were to be spent by the state
governments, even for funding of federal agencies such as FUNAI. Apart from state counterpart funds, all
project funds (loan and federal counterpart) flowed through the federal budget to the states, and were thus
vulnerable to the restrictions of federal budget management caused by the fiscal adjustment. This proved to
be an enormous bottleneck to the adequate flow of funds, particularly in the later years of implementation.

The combination of all the factors discussed above warrants an overall rating of unsatisfactory for quality
at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is defined as the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are
expected to be achieved, efficiently. The principal objective was: "to implement an improved strategy for
natural resource management, conservation, environmental protection and sustainable development in
Mato Grosso"

This objective in itself is vague, and must be interpreted taking the set of specific objectives (see section
3.1) as proxy for the "improved strategy".

(a) Changes in policies, regulations and public investment programs to provide a coherent incentives
framework for sustainable development. Such policy changes were not (or should not have been) expected
only from the State Government of Mato Grosso, but from the Federal Government as well. There have
been changes in policies, regulations and investment programs towards a more coherent incentives
framework, while other policies remained unchanged and some investment programs continued to provide
incoherent incentives. Certain policies and regulations required are not yet in place.

-   Mato Grosso has enacted legislation on environmental management, biodiversity conservation,
    extractive reserves, fisheries, water resources management, environmental education, including
    adequate institutional arrangements for most of these areas;
-   It has today a system of monitoring and controlling deforestation (at least in larger properties) through
    a rural licensing system which is reported to have had a positive impact on the rate of deforestation
    (decrease by 35% between 1998-99 and 2000-01, according to FEMA data, more than the average in



                                                       - 14 -

   the Amazon); the longer-term effective impact remains, however, uncertain, with steep rises in the rate
   of deforestation more recently (see further below). As yet, only a small part of deforestation is
   authorized.
-  It has enhanced its capacity to monitor and control water pollution, fisheries, and mining;
-  It has increased its biodiversity conservation areas (from 3 to 30), although on a total area much less
   than expected, with as yet insufficient management, and weak legal basis and little political support;
-  FUNAI has worked with the project to demarcate most indigenous areas targeted under the project;
-  Mato Grosso has today a much stronger environmental agency, with well trained staff and adequate
   organization (except for biodiversity conservation), and a significantly higher budget;
-  Mato Grosso has demonstrated sustainable forest management, although on a small scale, and the
   feasibility of a micro-watershed approach to natural resource management;
-  It has improved its rural road network, water supply, health and education infrastructure in parts of the
   state;
-  Mato Grosso has made important strides towards regularization of land tenure, not only for large but
   also for many small holdings; the state has created an innovative methodology to do tenure
   regularization more efficiently; it intends to complete land regularization in 100% of the state (for
   which it seeks Bank support).
-  Social capital has been created in the state and contributes an important element to future sustainable
   development;
-  INCRA has allegedly ceased to require land clearing as proof of ownership and effective use of land,
   and land reform settlements in primary forests were prohibited;
-  The Federal Government has made changes to the land tax and increased forest reserve requirements;
-  It participated in the preparation of the Brazilian Agenda 21 and prepared a proposal for the Agenda
   21 of Mato Grosso.

On the other hand:

-  as an overall indicator, the area cleared of rainforest and transition forest has increased by 68 % from
   about 9.1 million hectares in 1992 to about 15.3 million hectares in 2001 (according to INPE published
   in 2003), and the average annual deforestation rate for the period 1993 - 2001 was higher than in the
   1980s (670,000 ha/yr vs. 514,000 ha/yr) while in the rest of the Amazon (except Rondonia) that
   average has decreased. In fact, there was a substantial slow-down in the years just before the project
   started, and a steep increase in the first years of implementation. After a steep fall of the rate from
   1995 to 1997, the rate increased again steadily thereafter;
-  the "first approximation" zoning law was largely ignored by public and private agents, including
   INCRA and INTERMAT;
-  After ten years, the second approximation of zoning as the main guide to overall land use was
   technically completed, but has not been discussed and accepted by stakeholders and society, and not
   been made normative in some form. Since the "first approximation" zoning law has largely been
   ignored, the state currently has no effective spatial guide and policy for development. Plans to complete
   the political process of zoning exist, however, and zoning may still become an effective guide;
-  the state has relied almost exclusively on a "command-and-control" approach to reduce deforestation.
   Aside from voluntary compensation options for delinquent landholders, there are few other incentives to
   keep forests standing or to use them sustainably. It is, however, recognized that such incentives often
   require action and legislation by the federal government;
-  the creation of new settlements, by INCRA and the state's land reform agency, INTERMAT, occurred
   virtually throughout the project period (increase from 5 to 127 in 2001), and largely did not follow the
   existing zoning and principles of sustainable development, with a some exceptions;
-  IBAMA did not seek to coordinate its own actions with the plans and activities of the project and the


                                                     - 15 -

    state;
-   The Federal Government has not developed adequate policies and programs yet to (a) control
    unsustainable logging or (b) promote sustainable logging.
-   alternative farming and land use models have not been generated and disseminated and small-farmer
    credit has been discontinued, although credit is available for small settler farmers through the
    PRONAF program for rural family credit and support.

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Modest
Efficiency:        n/r

(b) Better knowledge of the natural resource base. There was enormous improvement in knowledge of land
capabilities and limitations through the diagnostic and zoning work of the consultants, and this knowledge
is available to the state's administration and in principle to the people of Mato Grosso, although the
modalities of public access are not yet clear. Together with Rondonia, Mato Grosso possesses today more
detailed information about its natural resources than any other Brazilian state.

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         High
Efficiency:       Low

(c) Reduce environmental degradation and ensure long-term preservation of biodiversity, protect the
borders of conservation units and indigenous reserves, control and prevent illegal deforestation, wood
transport and forest fires. New conservation areas have been created, although not to the extent planned at
appraisal, but their management and actual protection remain weak. Indigenous peoples reserves are better
protected. There is no ecological analysis of gaps in biodiversity conservation, and thus no objective
judgment can be made whether the extent of conservation areas now created is adequate, particularly with
regard to the cerrado (savanna) areas of the state. Adequacy is, however, strongly questioned. The impact
of inter-institutional operations planned to protect conservation and indigenous areas and to enforce other
aspects of environmental law is doubtful and their sustainability is unlikely. Through its innovative control
system, the state has been able to reduce deforestation in some regions, but has not been able to reduce the
occurrence of fires, whether intentional or accidental. Little progress has been made with respect to the
control of logging and wood transport, which is (still) a federal responsibility (IBAMA was virtually not
involved in the project, and has allegedly counteracted the state's control activities in some cases).

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Modest
Efficiency:       n/r

(d) Develop sustainable agriculture in areas suitable for permanent agriculture promoting integrated
agro-forestry farming systems, and systems for sustainable forest management in areas which should
remain under natural forest cover. With the termination of the agricultural/agro-forestry support
component at mid-term, any attempts at the development of sustainable agriculture and integrated
agro-forestry farming systems were halted (which is not to say that continuation of the component would
have achieved this). There were sustainable forest management trials in three municipalities and some
training of logging firms, but sustainable logging has not been mainstreamed. Policies and incentives in this
direction would, again, largely depend on the Federal Government. The new component PADIC has not
contributed much to this specific objective.




                                                      - 16 -

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Negligible
Efficiency:       n/r

(e) Support priority investments in socio-economic infrastructure and services in those areas where
population should remain concentrated. While some infrastructure investments were indeed made during the
first phase of the project, this component was reduced to paving of selected roads at mid-term, which has
likely given a boost to local agriculture by reducing transport costs. But there was only a relatively small
impact in terms of making agricultural development areas more attractive to people inclined to move
further towards the "frontier".

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Modest
Efficiency:       Modest

(f) Strengthen the technical and operational capacity of the State institutions responsible for the
agro-ecological zoning, the protection and management of the environment, and agricultural and forestry
support services. Capacity of the state for (continuation of) zoning has been partially created in the
Planning Secretariat through the training of technical personnel in analysis of land, natural resources and
land use. There is little capacity yet for the planning aspects of zoning proper and no organizational and
procedural framework to continue the various aspects of updating the zoning databank and administering
its use, nor for "territorial management" as part of a state planning and policy-making process. The
government has indicated its intention to create such capacity. Technically, the environmental agency
FEMA is today much better equipped for environmental management, has initiated excellent collaboration
with the (also strengthened) independent State Attorney's office, but has not yet prepared itself
organizationally for management and protection of conservation areas. Support to agricultural and forestry
support services remains weak.

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Modest
Efficiency:       n/r

Additional objectives were implicitly introduced after the MTR and relate to the quality of life of rural
communities (and reduction of poverty), the social organization of communities and the strengthening of
civil society organizations. Quality of life has been improved locally through the PADIC component, social
capital was created, and NGOs are stronger as a result of PADIC and had a much more active role in the
second phase of the project.

Relevance:        High
Efficacy:         Substantial
Efficiency:       Low

Taken together, and despite some serious shortfalls, the achievements under the specific objectives and
components make for a significant advance towards the "implementation of an improved strategy for
natural resource management, conservation, environmental protection and sustainable development" in
Mato Grosso. Overall relevance remains high, overall efficacy ranges from high to modest and in one
respect negligible. Overall efficiency was difficult to assess in this type of project, but given the
exceedingly long implementation period and high overhead costs, as well as the high cost of zoning and the
likely low economic returns of the PADIC component, is rated as low. For these reasons, project impact is


                                                      - 17 -

rated unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
While components are reviewed individually below, the relationships among them in terms of elements of a
coherent project strategy and their contribution to the specific objectives should be kept in mind, beyond
mere outputs. A salient characteristic of project implementation was precisely that execution of
components was largely independent, parallel and uncoordinated. The same holds true even for
sub-components. The overall objectives of the project appear to have been lost from sight. Furthermore,
clean separation of environmental and "development" components, which was also not remedied with the
introduction of a new demand-oriented component (PADIC) after the MTR, hampered the integration of
environmental sustainability aspects within agricultural development and socio-economic infrastructure
activities.

There are no performance indicators available (beyond physical output and input targets).

(A) Agro-ecological Zoning and Land Tenure Regularization (Appraisal US$40.0 million, actual
US$56.4 million )

Zoning (Appraisal US$21.5 million M, actual US$36.5 million )

Through the instrument of rural land-use "zoning", first introduced in the late 1980's, both the Bank and
the Brazilian government felt that the unsatisfactory pattern of land settlement observed in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso during the implementation of POLONOROESTE could be rationalized and brought under
some control. It was hoped that the technical/scientific underpinning of zoning studies would help to
increase the acceptability of zoning restrictions and reduce the emotional reactions of stakeholders.

Mato Grosso had a zoning plan since 1989, prepared at the scale of 1:1,000,000, which was made into a
state law in June 1992. It defined what economic activities (if any) could be carried out in each of seven
zones, the boundaries of which were drawn on a map. The first zoning plan and law were never discussed
with stakeholders in the society, nor was it ever well-known in Mato Grosso. The law was required by the
Project Agreement, which also stipulated that any change to the law that would affect the project adversely
(in the Bank's view) could trigger Bank remedies. The Project Agreement obliged the state government also
to "ensure that its investment program, which currently takes into account land use capabilities, ecological
and agro-ecological zoning considerations, shall, at each annual update thereof, be maintained consistent
with such considerations and compatible with such zoning". Thus, the Bank attached high importance to
the first zoning law.
However, the first zoning plan was considered too coarse and at too small a scale to gain acceptance.
Further thematic mapping work was to be carried out at larger scales over three years, to refine zoning
under the project. The SAR used the term "zoning" without defining what it meant and what processes it
implied. It only emphasized the "preparation and distribution of agro-ecological, climatic, soil and
topographic maps of the territory of the State". ( Oddly, the physical target for zoning was given as 26.8
million hectares , whereas the state has a total surface of 90.6 million hectares). The revised loan
agreement of 1998 is somewhat more detailed but not much clearer:

-    Preparation of the socio-economic-ecological zoning (ZSEE) of the state, including the preparation of
     small-scale maps to assist in the detailed planning and implementation (including agro-ecological,
     climatic, soil and topographic maps) of the zoning;
-    Preparation and implementation of information and awareness activities of the civil society related to
     ZSEE;



                                                     - 18 -

-    Training of the staff of the state zoning committee;
-    Preparation and establishment of the zoning databank

It is likely that there was little clarity on the meaning and process of zoning on the part of the Bank and the
state government. Even today, zoning is controversial, with multiple goals, definitions and methodologies.
From the outset, zoning was considered by the Bank and government as an eminently technical and
scientific exercise of making and combining thematic maps, so that the only alternative considered for
preparing the second zoning was to have this done by contractors. No public consultations before or during
the technical work were considered. It took more than two years to agree on terms of reference, select a
firm and sign a contract. The contract initially defined only diagnostic work on land use, but was later
(2000) amended to include a zoning proposal, a new draft law and assistance with public consultations
about the final proposal. It also included training of specialized staff in the Planning Secretariat and the
delivery of a database with all data collected and used for zoning.

The consultant's work was concluded only in late 2002, at a cost of US$27.1 million, equivalent to about
US$30/sq km. Total zoning costs amounted to US$32.78 million. (Per unit area, zoning in Mato Grosso
cost much less than in Rondonia). This long delay was the result of several work stoppages by the firm,
methodological issues and deficiencies on its part, and shortfalls in counterpart funds from state budgets.
Numerous component studies and thematic reports of excellent quality were delivered during the
"compilation" phase of the assignment, with sufficient detail and precision, so that Mato Grosso may have
one of the most comprehensive natural resource and socioeconomic databases of any sub national
jurisdiction in the world (some of the information on land use and other socio-economic themes is now out
of date, however). The final products delivered by the consultants are the zoning proposal for the entire
state, and the final database that incorporates data from all previous studies and surveys.

The zoning proposal consists of a map elaborated at a scale of 1:250,000 but presented at 1:1,500,000,
including indications of recommended land use and development and conservation measures. It defines 42
zones and 67 sub-zones plus 69 specific areas within these zones, and an additional 15 zones recommended
for creation of new conservation areas. Each zone falls into one of five categories of land use (restricted
use, controlled use, uses that require redirection or rehabilitation, consolidation of current use, and special
uses), which were defined by the consultants. While the state technical staff are satisfied with the content of
the final proposal, they are critical of its methodological underpinnings, because the rules, principles and
criteria that led to a specific recommendation for a given zone have never been made explicit and
documented by the firm. This makes it unlikely that different planners will come to the same decisions and
will defend the proposal in public discussions, making negotiations more difficult. The consultants also
submitted a draft zoning law.

While technical work for zoning has been finished, its public discussion in the various regions of the state,
its negotiation and eventual adoption (in a new law) and implementation still lie ahead. While the Bank and
the state of Mato Grosso looked to zoning as a guide for the actions of PRODEAGRO and the state's
overall development, this did not occur. Mato Grosso still has no real experience with the implementation
of zoning after more than a decade of effort.

The "second approximation" is likely to face some implementation challenges. First, the zoning plan is
highly complex and verbose, and thus difficult to explain to stakeholders and to the public in general. The
inclusion of proposed development or conservation actions for each zone gives the plan an operational and
practical orientation, and may facilitate or hinder its implementation depending on how affected
communities and the new state government receive and understand these recommendations. A second aspect
is the fact that it was prepared by out-of-state consultants with virtually no input from local stakeholder


                                                       - 19 -

groups, although the MTR had called for consultations with the public on zoning. Little effort was made by
the state to explain the objectives of zoning or to enhance its political acceptability before or during the
work on the "second approximation". The State Zoning Commission was supposed to provide a forum for
government and non-governmental entities to express their views on zoning and to orient the zoning work,
but it met only four times during project implementation and seems to have accomplished little.

Clearly, ranching and commercial agriculture interests will be using hearings and consultations to lobby for
greater flexibility in the application of the rule on minimum forest reserves. According to current federal
law, the existence of a statewide zoning plan could justify selective reductions of the legal reserve from
80% to 50%, but the current zoning proposal does not make any recommendations as to where this might
be considered. Small-scale producers will look to zoning to provide a clearer definition of those areas
reserved for traditional, non-mechanized agriculture. The results of the consultations on the "second
approximation", and the government's responses to stakeholder demands will go a long way to determining
whether zoning promotes better land use in the long run.

Given the limited outputs envisaged by the SAR and the 1998 amendment, the result of the zoning
sub-component was satisfactory, except for the lack of a public information campaign and of an
institutional capacity to carry on the work.

Land Tenure Regularization (Appraisal US$26.2 million , actual US$20.0 million )

Mato Grosso was the state with the highest rate of overlapping claims and titles in Brazil (20% excess of
titled land over the actual area of the state). The project strategy rightly included a strong emphasis on land
regularization ­ a daunting task. Clear property rights are important for (a) proper land use decisions that
take into account the longer run; (b) tenure security particularly for small farmers; (c) access to credit; and
(d) government control of land use through licensing, monitoring, law enforcement and fines . In the case of
public conservation areas, tenure security is important to be able to enforce their integrity. The project
initially had set unrealistic targets, which were reduced at the time of reformulation. Revised targets and
results are as follows:


 Targets                                                   Results
Cadastral work necessary for creation, management           Completed for nine conservation areas
and protection of Conservation Units
Delimitation, demarcation and cadastral registration of Cadastre of 33.1 million hectares
about 23 million hectares of land
Land regularization activities in ten municipalities to Survey and cadastre of the total area of two
identify public and private lands, assist in the          municipalities completed; titles in only one of
resolution of pending administrative questions            them. Partial regularization in another 13
regarding indigenous areas, and identify land and         municipalities.
boundaries for the creation of Conservation Units         Elaboration and application of an innovative,
                                                          rapid, efficient methodology of land
                                                          regularization.
                                                          Repossession of 7,000 ha for conservation
                                                          purposes.
Demarcation of about 1,000 kilometers of                  349 km
conservation area boundaries
Regularization of land titles of about 7,000               17,300 definitive titles issued, in part in



                                                      - 20 -

smallholders                                                urban areas

 Even though this sub-component did not fully achieve its goals, the state land agency INTERMAT has
 nevertheless made significant progress. Even more titles could have been issued, had not federal legislation
 impeded the issuing of titles in the of 150 km strip along Brazil's border (in this case with Bolivia), and
 were there not unresolved issues of authority between the state agency and INCRA. The sub-component
 went beyond what was planned at appraisal and reformulation, by implementing a geodesic and
 cartographic reference network in 53 municipalities (half the state).

 One of its most significant achievements was creation of a considerably faster and cheaper method of
 cadastre and regularization work, by means of which an interdisciplinary team of surveyors, mapping
 specialists and lawyers targets the area and plots of an entire municipality, reducing the number of steps
 necessary for regularization from forty-two to ten, and reducing the cost per hectare from about US$20 to
 about US$1. The delimitation of properties in the field is done amicably with the involvement of each of
 the affected owners or squatters. This innovation serves as a model for other states. The cost to the
 smallholders is zero, but the registration of titles in private notary offices ("cartórios") is expensive and
 thus often avoided by owners. An important challenge for the future is the establishment and maintenance
 of an up-to-date, geo-referenced cadastral data bank in the state with the participation of state, federal and
 private agencies ("cartórios"), as part of the planned national system of land registration.

 Given the size of the state and its tenure problems, and despite shortfalls, the achievement of outputs by
 this sub-component is deemed satisfactory in view of the substantive progress achieved and the
 streamlining of the process which the project assisted. The new State Government is interested in Bank
 financing to complete regularization of the remainder of the state's land within about two years.



(B) Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural Resources (Appraisal $54.4 M, actual $42.6
M)



       Subcomponents at Appraisal                After Reformulation

Management of forest resources; and               Merged, with additional activities, into an
                                                  Environmental Demonstration Projects
                                                  sub-component

  Rationalization of mining activities

Establishment of nine state conservation areas Establishment and management of nine state
                                                 conservation areas, with addition of four new
                                                 conservation areas

Environmental education and awareness            Deleted as free-standing sub-component and
building                                         integrated into other (sub)components of the project

Law enforcement activities (Forest Police and    Improvement of the environmental licensing and
FEMA licensing and monitoring)                   monitoring of deforestation, water and air pollution

Support to indigenous communities                Maintained

Forest cover monitoring and remote sensing,      Integrated into enforcement and monitoring
inspection of permits                            sub-component




                                                       - 21 -

 Institutional strengthening of agencies in       Institutional Strengthening of FEMA
 charge of carrying out environmental
 conservation and protection activities through
 the preparation of a long-term, strategic
 environmental law enforcement plan


The original structure of this largest and most complex project component had eight subcomponents,
revised at reformulation to a different, but still complex structure of six subcomponents. Most of these
elements can be considered as necessary parts of an environmental conservation and protection strategy,
but as a whole this set of activities was almost unmanageable, given the initial weak institutional capacity
of the state, and essentially remained so after project revision. It mixed elements of command-and-control
with promotion of economic activities based on forest conservation, consciousness-raising of the rural
population, and with welfare of indigenous communities (strangely under the heading "natural resources").

This component was also the least welcome to a large part ­ but not all - of Mato Grosso's society and its
major stakeholders at the time, as it appeared to run counter to the prevailing development culture. It had
the least political support. It was, in part , due to the Bank's insistence on "pari-passu" implementation of
(and disbursement for) developmental and environmental components of the project that the component
managed to still achieve surprising results, although this had little backing in the legal agreements.

Conservation Units (Appraisal US$2.9 million , actual US$4.0 million )

The SAR called for the creation of nine new state conservation units, out of a total of 16 identified in the
first zoning, with a total area of about 4.85 million hectares . At appraisal, there were less than 500,000 ha
of protected areas in Mato Grosso. The project planned to put 6.6% of the state under conservation.
Actually, fifteen areas were created: eight of the nine areas planned at appraisal, plus another seven, in part
identified in the amendment. The total of these areas amounts to about 1.56 million hectares , which is
two-thirds short of the target area. With one exception, the areas envisaged for each unit given in the SAR
overestimated by far the actual availability of state land or unoccupied land. Targets were based on
erroneous data or assumptions, due to errors of the first approximation of zoning. The second
approximation zoning proposal has identified, based on vastly better information, new or expanded areas
for conservation.

Eleven units are for strict protection, the remaining ones allow some form of use. Demarcations, rapid
ecological assessment and management plans have been concluded to varying degrees for the 15 units. No
management arrangements have yet effectively been made for any of the units, due to the lesser priority
given by FEMA to conservation during the last years. Despite cadastral and tenure surveys of most of the
areas, the actual legal status of the units remains tenuous, due to pending expropriations or private claims,
and due to time limitations of the decrees that created them. There have been repeated attempts by Deputies
in the State Legislature to reduce the size of some state parks, none of which has yet been successful, due in
part to vetoes by the Governor, counter movements by NGOs and "threats" by the Federal Government to
create a national park in place of two state parks (Cristalino I and II). Under the new government, FEMA
plans to review all units for size and category of protection.

Mato Grosso was the first state in Brazil to have passed its own legislation for a State System of
Conservation Units, even before the Federal Government, but has not completed a conservation master plan
which would include, inter alia, provisions for the financial sustainability of the system and its units.




                                                        - 22 -

Environmental Management, Enforcement and Protection (Appraisal US$30.8 million , actual US$11.4
million )

The SAR provided for the establishment of a state system of law enforcement, licensing, monitoring and
control, with special emphasis on protection of forest areas in the north of the state and indigenous lands.
The project achieved much in this regard. In 1995, the State codified its environmental management system
defining the institutional roles and responsibilities at the state and municipal levels, as well as the
instruments of environmental policy, including rules and processes for licensing, environmental
assessments, control and enforcement. In 1999, the state approved a fisheries law.

After some ineffective and uncoordinated attempts, since 1995, to carry out control of deforestation and
forest fires and to protect conservation areas and indigenous lands, mainly by the Forest Battalion of the
State Military Police, the state government instituted in 1997 the Inter-institutional Committee of
Environmental Law Enforcement (CIFA), integrating eleven federal, state and NGO entities, with a
strategic function of coordinating the dispersed functions of monitoring, surveillance and policing through
annual plans and organizing joint enforcement campaigns. CIFA had a wider scope than just protection of
conservation units and indigenous lands. In five years, CIFA has reportedly carried out 40 campaigns on
hunting and fishing, more than 40 on deforestation and burning, 40 on flora, fauna and polluting activities,
and 25 on protection of conservation units and indigenous lands. While its activities were intense during the
first two years, they slowed down during the later years, as CIFA became integrated into FEMA. No data
on the impact of these campaigns are available, except for the impact of deforestation control, nor on the
degree of integrity achieved for conservation units and indigenous lands, despite repeated requests by Bank
missions. No strategic law enforcement plan is available. Thus, as far as integrity of protected of lands is
concerned and without better data, outputs of such CIFA campaigns are considered unsatisfactory.

An innovative system by FEMA to monitor and control deforestation (and to a lesser extent wildfires) in
Mato Grosso has become a celebrated success. It has been supported jointly by PRODEAGRO, the Rain
Forest Pilot Program (PPG7) and the Bank-funded Emergency Amazon Fire Prevention and Control
Project (PROARCO). It combines use of the traditional instruments of licensing, monitoring and
enforcement with remote sensing technology and geographic information systems. The system was
introduced in 1999, after a "federative pact" between the State of Mato Grosso and IBAMA, which turned
over responsibility for deforestation control of larger properties to the state, among other functions. It is
based on the federal Forest Code and the Environmental Crimes Law, the Mato Grosso Environmental
Code and state decrees creating additional specific legal instruments. Mato Grosso introduced a simplified
"environmental license for rural properties", replacing the usual three licenses required with one, and
applied this requirement, in a first phase, to properties over 1,000 hectares in the deforestation belt of the
state . The legally required forest reserves,permanent protection areas, areas available for clear-felling, and
already degraded areas are mapped for each property on a satellite image, which is provided by the owner
and mandatory for obtaining the license and a permit to clear forest. Actual land use on each property is
monitored through interpretation of annual satellite images and field inspection. FEMA works closely with
the independent State Attorney's Office in dealing with offenders, and allows compensation for excess
clearing by the offender granting land (in other areas) to the state to augment conservation units. Annual
land clearing in the state fell by 32% in the period 2000-01 relative to the period 1998-99, and particularly
so in regions where the control system was active.

Water resource management and water pollution control were not contemplated at appraisal, but included
in the revised agreements along with air pollution control. Three significant achievements are noted: the
approval of a State Water Resources Policy (law of 1997) and Plan, prepared with UNDP assistance under
the project, including institutional arrangements as foreseen in the National Water Resources Policy and


                                                      - 23 -

arrangements for water rights concession and fees, the establishment and operation of a pollution control
laboratory at FEMA, and the monitoring of water quality in three river basins. In addition, the state
strengthened its apparatus for control of predatory fishing and approved a state fisheries law. These are
significant contributions to environmental management in the state.

Environmental Demonstration Projects (Appraisal US$ 38.0 million , actual US$ 10.7 million )

Under this sub-component, project results were obtained in the areas of sustainable forest management,
improved mining practices, reforestation and rehabilitation of degraded areas. Three demonstration forest
management areas were established, and training courses on the subject held in ten northern municipalities.
While forest management has not become mainstream in Mato Grosso, the project contributed to the
diffusion of the concept, its feasibility and associated technologies and models among logging companies.
The pilot projects were later abandoned. The establishment of nine state forests on four million ha was
foreseen at appraisal, but dropped at the reformulation, victims apparently also of the erroneous guidance
of the first approximation zoning and the unavailability of public lands. No land/forest management plans
were consequently prepared for public lands, nor for any private lands. Furthermore, the project supported
the establishment of tree nurseries in 26 municipalities, and the rehabilitation of small degraded areas in
four others, however, apparently to little lasting effect.

Small-scale placer mining for gold is a widespread activity in Mato Grosso, with mercury pollution and
other environmental consequences. The project helped to establish some monitoring and control of such
activities in certain river basins through inventories, inspection and licensing of mining sites (after
environmental improvements), strengthened FEMA's laboratory facilities, promoted technological research
and diffusion of technologies, and established a model placer mine in the Pantanal area. Overall, the state
acquired capacity to monitor and control mining, and the project was effective in disseminating improved
technologies and a changed attitude among miners, even if in a limited way.

The largest (spending) item under the environmental demonstration components was not foreseen at
appraisal but was eligible under the amendment: the building of a solid waste management and recycling
plant for the city of Cuiabá. The plant operated for a while, but turned out to have a totally insufficient
capacity for Cuiabá, and is not operational anymore.

Strengthening of State Environmental Agency FEMA (Appraisal US$6.6 million , actual US$9.9
million )

The strengthening of FEMA under the project exceeded what was expected at appraisal. It included a
substantial increase in staff (from 65 to 344), staff training in several fields, establishment of regional
offices, a library and laboratories and environmental information units in all municipalities with
conservation units, equipment, vehicles and information technology. The establishment of a water resources
management capacity, with its own directorate in FEMA, was not foreseen at appraisal. At the end of the
project (2002), the project financed a new building for FEMA. All this improved FEMA's standing in the
public eye. A shortcoming was the decreasing attention and priority given to the system of conservation
units during the last years, and the failure to create a directorate for biodiversity conservation in FEMA. As
a result of its strengthening and increased licensing activity, FEMA was able to augment its budget
resources from R$140,000 in 1994 to R$1.8 million in 2001, excluding project funds.

In 1996, the judiciary of Mato Grosso created, in four municipalities of the South and East of the state, the
institution of mobile "environmental circuit courts" with civil and penal jurisdiction over environmental
matters and power to execute fines imposed by FEMA, but with a preference for conciliation among the


                                                      - 24 -

parties.

The environmental legislation of the state was augmented and improved, covering all environmental
concerns and allowing for the necessary institutional arrangements.

Indigenous Protection (Appraisal US$9.1 million , actual US$6.7 million )

The project has enabled very significant advances in terms of indigenous rights, security, health and
education. There are 38 indigenous peoples in Mato Grosso, who have been subject to severe pressures and
strife during the centuries of expansive occupation of the state. Their population has increased substantially
during the project period. The project gave support to four essential activities for protection of indigenous
lands: (i) identification, demarcation and registration of "indigenous lands" (ILs); (ii) vigilance and
protection from intruders; (iii) identification of isolated Indians, and (iv) indigenous health and education.
Seven ILs were to be identified (delimitation on the map); work began on five, but was concluded only for
one (one of those omitted is for a group that is generally not recognized as indigenous). Seventeen areas
were to receive physical demarcation of their boundaries. This was fully achieved. Of these, only ten have
been legally regularized, and two are under litigation. The loan amendment also called for renewal of
overgrown boundaries in seven ILs, for a length of 900 km (much reduced from appraisal targets). This
was achieved in eleven areas, with 551 km. Attempts at identification and contact with "isolated"
indigenous groups were also funded by the project, but had minimal success. Overall, achievements to
create visible and legal boundaries for indigenous lands have been quite remarkable, although available
funds during the last years of the project could have been used more effectively to achieve even more.
More than 90% of the state's indigenous population now live in demarcated ILs. There is still work left to
do in terms of studies, identification, demarcation, regularization and boundary demarcation and removal of
settlers. It is hoped that this will be taken up by the ongoing Indigenous Lands Project under PPG7, which
so far has not operated in Mato Grosso.

Little is known of the efficacy of joint action of relevant agencies under CIFA (see above) to protect
indigenous lands from intrusions. Better results were reportedly achieved when indigenous communities
participated in or undertook vigilance activities themselves.

The issue of occupation of the Sararé indigenous land warrants special mention. This area underwent the
sudden intrusion of gold miners and ranchers just before appraisal. The Bank had made it a condition of
loan effectiveness that "all miners and other illegal occupants within and around the Sarare Indigenous
Area have been removed ... and the Sararé Action Plan has been furnished to the Bank." The condition was
complied with by the Government of Mato Grosso, but by 1996, illegal occupants had returned. At that
time the Bank insisted again on the immediate removal of intruders and requested the preparation and
implementation of another action plan for the area to guarantee the integrity of its borders. This plan was
prepared with UNDP assistance and included removal of encroachers, policing of the borders; strategic
relocation of the villages to permit better surveillance and a stronger sense of responsibility of the
indigenous community; and support to indigenous subsistence production. The plan was implemented with
success, and there appear to be no further problems. The state government also obtained an area from a
local mining company to permit gold miners to continue their activities elsewhere.

The SAR provided for a complex set of measures to improve indigenous health within an equally complex
and tenuous context of institutional responsibilities (FUNAI, state government, municipalities, and later
also the National Health Foundation), aimed at bringing preventive and curative health care to the
communities and increasing the share of financial and personnel resources dedicated to indigenous people ­
a project by itself. In the absence of any impact indicators of indigenous health, little can be said about the


                                                       - 25 -

success of the sub-component. The first phase of the project was based on "itinerant health teams", carried
out an indigenous health diagnostic and model/plan, and invested in training, equipment and infrastructure.
The difficulty of finding qualified professionals to serve indigenous populations led UNDP to contract
professionals under very generous contracts paid 100% with project funds, but the Bank insisted that this
program be phased out after a few years, because it was not sustainable. The MTR noted the absence of an
overall policy for indigenous health, the failure to address rising health problems by their causes, and the
need to integrate health care with other lines of action concerned with environmental education and
self-sustenance of indigenous communities. The reformulation brought the establishment of "indigenous
health districts" under the National Health Foundation and a highly innovative program of training 120
indigenous nurses' assistants to increase the reach of the activities of the districts in terms of basic health
care and monitoring. Training also included indigenous medicine and elementary schooling. Almost all of
the students (117) graduated, gained professional recognition (equivalent to nurses' aides anywhere in the
country) and were contracted to work with indigenous communities. This is the first and so far only
program of this type in Brazil, and serves as a model for other states. Shortcomings included contracting
of the professionals at lower salary levels than normal for personnel with their training, the lack of training
in general environmental aspects and hygiene, and the low number of women students.

A similar innovation was achieved, even before the reformulation, in indigenous education which was not
part of the original project design. A diagnosis in 1995 indicated the need to train indigenous teachers for
indigenous village schools, as members of specific ethnic and social groups, and oriented by the motif
"land, language and culture". The project trained 200 indigenous teachers from eleven ethnic groups over
four years; 176 graduated, of whom 101 subsequently passed the entrance exam for a specialized course
for indigenous teachers at the University of Mato Grosso. The activity was primarily an initiative of the
State Government, with support from FUNAI,, municipalities, NGOs, and academic institutions.

Environmental education (appraisal US$1.7 million , actual US$1.4 million )

Environmental education was meant to increase awareness of the population of Mato Grosso of
environmental problems and sustainable development, through support of municipal environment councils
and suitable NGOS. Activities were carried out slowly and in highly dispersed form, and revision of the
project eliminated this sub-component and integrated environmental education in other components
(PADIC, conservation units). Overall, the environmental component has produced sufficient outputs to
warrant a rating of "satisfactory".

(C) Agro-forestry Development, including rural extension, agro-forestry research, rural credit, and
market information systems (Appraisal US$ 70.2 million , actual US$35.6 million )

This component was excluded from the revised project after 1997. At appraisal, the overall objective of
these sub-components was to support the transformation of extensive farming systems into permanent
agro-forestry systems in the northern part of the State (zone 3), intensify small-holder agricultural
production in the southern fertile soils (zone 2) and initiate the privatization of agricultural support
services. This was an important element of the overall strategy, but overly ambitious. It also was not
consistent with the traditional interests of the state's agricultural sector, largely based on cattle ranching
and cultivation of commercial crops.

Research and extension (appraisal US$ 44.6 million , actual $25.6 million )

This sub-component suffered from the lack of political support by the various governments during
implementation and the institutional rigidity of the state's research and extension agency (EMPAER) and
its management, unwilling to take advantage of the chances offered by PRODEAGRO for improving its


                                                       - 26 -

institutional structure to better serve producers' demands. The project called for research and extension to
concentrate on mixed cropping system, improved forest fallow management, agro-forestry systems and
diversification into alternative tree crops on soils of lesser fertility. Instead of a systems approach,
EMPAER continued to work on individual crops and did little with respect to perennial crops or
agro-forestry. The integration of research and extension did not receive EMPAER attention; the two
branches are still working in isolation, although there were a few promising initiatives with "participatory
research". Only a fraction of tests and field trials was carried out. Very few of the training courses for
extension staff and farmers were carried out, although demonstration events exceeded targets. With about
36,000 farmers reportedly assisted, this appraisal target was also exceeded. The project has helped to
strengthen the field structure of research and extension through establishment of research centers,
improvements of experimental stations, vehicles, equipment, and agro-meteorological stations.

An interesting experiment was contractual extension for farmer associations, an attempt at gradual
privatization of these services. It had only limited success, as poor farmers were unwilling or unable to pay
for the services, staff quality was poor, and due to ingrained corporate interest at EMPAER, its
management was not supportive. A second innovative experience (for Mato Grosso) is related to eleven
pilot micro-watershed management projects in two municipalities of the cerrado biome, based on the
Bank's experience in the southern states of Brazil. They only included simple interventions of terracing and
road restoration, but were well accepted by farmers and technical staff. Beyond soil erosion control, the
micro-watershed approach holds promise for organizing all stakeholders and local governments around
issues of natural resource management in a cooperative way, although it would not be appropriate where
large farms predominate and may even exceed the size of micro watersheds. The new state government is
interested in expanding this approach.

A central element of agricultural development strategy was the provision of adequate agricultural credit,
through the FUNDAGRO credit fund (appraisal US$35.1 million , actual US$9.7 million ). By 1997 the
credit sub-component had only disbursed 27% of the appraisal target and assisted only 18% of the planned
number of farmers. The main reasons were the overly heavy bureaucratic procedures designed more to
satisfy federal norms than the needs of small producers, delays in approval and disbursement on the part of
the State Bank of Mato Grosso, delays in the preparation of technical proposals by EMPAER; and the
unavailability of marketing and technical assistance during sub-project preparation. FUNDAGRO funded
only 2347 ha of "consorcios" with perennial crops, 3838 ha of perennial crops, 897 ha of annual crops, and
farm equipment, and thus failed to meet project objectives. After cancellation of this sub-component and
the liquidation of the State Bank, the delinquent portfolio of FUNFAGRO increased from 1% to more than
80%. Some other activities funded under this component also had only limited success.

Overall, output and performance of the agricultural/agro-forestry component was unsatisfactory due to
lack of political support from the state government for research and extension services responsive to small
farmers' needs; lack of management vision and capacity to plan the integration of research and extension
and reluctance to accept innovations suggested by UNDP Technical Assistance under the project; lack of
technical "messages" for small farmers, regarding farm planning and integrated crop systems, and lack of
simplified and efficient credit procedures for FUNDAGRO accessible to small farmers. The MTR clearly
pointed out the unsatisfactory implementation of the component and recommended its termination. Civil
society representatives argued with the state government that there was no point in continuing with the
component (with the exception of the research service), and insisted that this and the infrastructure
component be substituted by a program of support to community initiatives (PADIC). PADIC, however,
was not really designed or prepared to provide services to small farmers considered essential for the overall
strategy. Alternatives to providing these services in a different form were not contemplated or not
considered feasible in the institutional context of the state.



                                                      - 27 -

(D) Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services, including strengthening of the infrastructure related
to health, education, water supply, rural electrification, and rehabilitation of rural roads (Appraisal:
US$65.4 million , actual US$73.4 million )

The main objective of this component was to provide incentives the concentration of the rural population in
the areas with potential for agriculture (zones 2 and 3 of the first approximation zoning) and to reduce
pressure on the forest areas of the state. (The SAR affirms that the State had committed not to provide such
infrastructure and services elsewhere. The Project Agreement, however, obliged the Government of Mato
Grosso only to ensure that "its investment program, which currently takes into account land use
capabilities, ecological and agro-ecological zoning considerations, shall ... be maintained consistent with
such considerations and compatible with such zoning." The project was to fund a five-year time-slice of the
state's health, education, water supply, electrification and road improvement programs.

This component was also terminated with the project reformulation, eliminating another important element
of the original strategy. However, the new project component PADIC included, in principle, the possibility
of funding community investments in local infrastructure and certain services, and thus mitigated the
elimination of this component.

Between 1993 and 1997, the health sub-component completed only the construction of 26 new and
improvements to seven existing health posts. Improvements to indigenous health services were discussed
above and stand out as an innovative achievement. Implementation of the education subcomponent fared
somewhat better, but also failed to reach appraisal targets, with one notable exception, the training of
"uncertified" teachers which benefited double the number foreseen and is unanimously considered an
effective and efficient innovation with an impact on rural education, worthy of further study and replication
elsewhere. However, some of the health posts and school buildings are in precarious conditions, or
closed, or not being used for their intended purpose.

The rural electrification and water supply subcomponents also fell short of their appraisal targets. They
benefited some 3,760 families with water supply and electricity.

The main objective of road pavement and rehabilitation was to provide adequate road conditions for input
supply and marketing, by rehabilitating and paving existing roads in the southern parts of Mato Grosso
(Zones 2 and 3). During the first phase 1993-1997, the project funded rehabilitation of 3,965 km of state
and municipal gravel roads (53% of appraisal target), and 103 km of road paving (83%). The revised
project after MTR excluded further rehabilitation of gravel roads, mainly for lack of a lasting effect of such
efforts, and concentrated on road paving and rehabilitation of paved roads. By the end of the project, 472
km of paved roads were rehabilitated (96%)., 108 km of gravel roads had been paved (84%), and seven
bridges had been built. In spite of the last extension of the loan closing date to allow, inter alia, for
completion of road works, about 23 km of rehabilitation of a paved roads and 22 km of pavement of a
gravel road remained unfinished at closing, with likely loss of part of the works already executed to the
rains. Quality of road paving was good, but rehabilitation of some paved roads suffered from inadequate
prior surveys and engineering designs. Maintenance is sporadic, limited by scarce state funds, and responds
to emergencies; a required study on a permanent road maintenance system was not done. Training of road
department staff in road management (including environmental aspects) was completed, and required
environmental assessments were carried out. An environmental unit in the state roads department was
created, but may not be functioning as well as expected. A proposed study on a multi-modal transport
system for the state was not undertaken. Due to the lack of criteria for prioritizing construction works or
evaluating the benefits derived from them, decisions on works tend to be taken on the basis of political


                                                      - 28 -

opportunity instead of evaluated and prioritized on the basis of social demands or requirements.

The roads sub-component represented a large share of Mato Grosso's investments in transport
infrastructure during the project period, yet remained small in relation to the development needs of a rapidly
growing state economy with a thriving commercial agriculture. Road improvements benefited both large
and small farmers, and have provided incentives for the rural population to stay in areas slated for
agricultural development.

Overall, the results of the infrastructure component were unsatisfactory.

(E) Project Administration and Technical Cooperation (US$11.9 million at appraisal, actual US$32,3
million ), including a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), supported by an independent technical
cooperation group responsible for advising the PCU with respect to project monitoring and
evaluation, and for recommending any needed changes in project strategy and content.

The SAR provided for the strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the State and the Federal Project
Coordination Units, with particular emphasis on improving their monitoring and evaluation capability,
through training, technical assistance and consultancies.

Specifically the projects would support: (a) the installation costs of the State Project Coordination Units,
including administrative offices, equipment and operating costs; (b) the operating costs of the Federal
National Coordination Unit; (c) training, technical assistance, consultants studies; (d) in Mato Grosso,
processing facilities and related expenditures for implementation of a monitoring system based on satellite
imagery, for the immediate detection of illegal deforestation and invasion of protected areas, as an aid to
project enforcement activities; and (e) in both States, the yearly meeting of an Independent Evaluation
Committee, with participation of NGO representatives, to evaluate the annual progress of the project and
recommend any needed corrective actions.

The strengthening of the Project Coordination Units (PCUs) did not occur as foreseen. Monitoring and
evaluation did not provide information to steer the project as intended. In Mato Grosso the monitoring of
deforestation was successfully transferred to PRODEAGRO's environmental components, but there, the
relation to other project activities became tenuous. In Rondonia the independent evaluation committee only
met once and was finally dropped.

Reasons for the poor performance of the Administration and to some extent the Technical Cooperation
include the diffused ownership of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO, and the lack of proper PCUs
empowerment to manage the projects. This lack of management affected the development of an adequate
monitoring and evaluation system, as there was no demand for the information generated by such a system.
As a result, no baseline studies and outcome indicators were developed, and very few references are
available to measure project outputs and outcomes against.

Technical Cooperation, which was carried out by UNDP, played an important role in assisting both
projects to overcome difficulties in some key activities, especially in the zoning and environmental
components, by allowing the hiring of qualified personnel. In both states, however, better work conditions
were offered to this personnel (higher salaries, privileged status within the institutions, and better facilities),
which had an adverse impact on relations with regular staff. . Moreover, this privileged position not only
made more difficult the transfer of knowledge and in-house capacity-building to carry on the project after
closure, but also resulted in some distortions. Examples are the personnel hired by technical assistance
going much beyond the activities associated with a regular technical assistance program, notably in Mato


                                                     - 29 -

Grosso, where they carried out activities that regular staff should have implemented. Also, project
resources allocated through technical cooperation were used to create incentives to retain qualified
personnel. However, the federal agency in charge of auditing both projects ("Secretaria Federal de
Controle") identified several hiring or incentive procedures in PRODEAGRO that were incompatible with
federal and state laws. As a consequence, all transfer of funds to the technical assistance component was
suspended until the full amount spent in connection with these irregular procedures was recovered. The
key point about the capacity-building program through technical assistance, however, is that no exit
strategy was devised by governments to maintain these incentives at project's conclusion and therefore
retain qualified personnel.

The absence of project management is the single most important factor leading to the diminished outcomes
of the Administration Component. This absence of management, a result of insufficiently empowered
PCUs and diffused project ownership coupled with different agendas and sometimes conflicting interests
among the various agencies, resulted in the yearly implementation plans (POA) being limited to activities
that reflected each participating institution's own goals, without regard to the necessary complementarities
between project activities. The lack of baseline studies and outcome indicators for both PRODEAGRO and
PLANAFLORO, may also have contributed to the loss of sight by Project Coordination Units of what the
project should achieve. There were no clear targets to orient project implementing agencies in the
preparation of their POAs.

The final outcome of the Project Administration and Technical Cooperation Components is that the
structures created to manage PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO were not strengthened. Instead of
managing the projects, the Project Administration Units spent most of their time dealing with procurement,
contract management, troubleshooting administrative issues and struggling for adequate transfer of federal
government funds to the projects. Little, if any, in-house expertise was created and it will remain difficult
for the governments of both Rondonia and Mato Grosso to continue project-related activities, such as the
enforcement of zoning. It is noteworthy that despite the modest achievement of outcomes, the Project
Administration and Technical Assistance components had a major budgetary overrun. PLANAFLORO had
136 % overrun in regard to Appraisal and PRODEAGRO had a 187 %.

Overall, the outcome of the Project Administration and Technical Assistance components was
unsatisfactory.

(F) Community Initiatives Support Program -PADIC (Appraisal: n/a, revision: US$38.0 million , actual
    US$17.3 million )

This new component pursued multiple specific objectives within the context of an unaltered principal
objective after project reformulation (see sections 3.2 and 3.4 above). Between 1998 and 2002, 878
proposals were received from communities, associations and NGOs, of which 395 subprojects were
approved (47%), 228 were completed, and 167 are still under execution. About 27,000 families were
reached by the component in 115 municipalities (83% of the state), including indigenous communities.
Most sub-projects included more than one investment item and purpose. Of all items financed, about 58%
were for infrastructure, 26% for production (of which only 2% agro-forestry), 16% for vehicles and
equipment, and 13% for environmental purposes (nurseries, waste recycling, reforestation). The component
was implemented in two phases (1998-2000 and 2001-02, the latter still ongoing). Loan disbursements
were made on the basis of advances to joint government/community accounts, but these advances have not
yet been fully spent). Considerable learning and improvements took place in PADIC design and
implementation between the first and second phase.




                                                     - 30 -

Implementation was severely hampered by interruptions in the flow of funds to subprojects, the lack of
qualified technical assistance and training to communities and associations, and by spending of funds on
components that the communities did not really want and support, particularly on the environmental side,
which was mandatory only in the first phase. Some associations were established simply because funding
was available, and some subproject proposals were submitted by technical personnel specializing in
writing proposals, but did not have the full ownership of the community.

PADIC represented the only support of PRODEAGRO to small farmers, landless and traditional
populations after reformulation. It has been hugely popular and much better known than PRODEAGRO
itself in the state. Politicians appreciated PADIC as a means to gather votes in rural constituencies. PADIC
has clearly helped to improve the quality of life of rural communities through its infrastructure investments
(water supply, electricity, local roads, etc.), although quality of designs and execution has been mixed and
future arrangements for operation and maintenance are mostly unclear or lacking. No improvements to
health and education services were supported.

PADIC did nothing to replace the credit sub-component . PADIC has apparently achieved little in terms of
technological innovation, new farming systems and alternative forms of land use, due in part to the lack of
knowledge of technical personnel (government and private) and the NGOs elaborating proposals with the
communities, or due to lack of proven models. The technical value-added of PADIC was just as weak as
that of the agro-forestry support component it replaced. There is little evidence that the component has
furthered environmental conservation or protection, or reduced pressure on conservation units and forests in
general. PADIC did not make the link between (i) production or infrastructure investments and (ii)
environmental considerations or changes of behavior in land use. By leaving out the state's agencies for
research and extension, infrastructure and social services, any opportunity for state reform in these
functions was foregone. Interestingly, the MTR was fully aware of the possible consequences of a
demand-driven approach, and envisaged the contracting of state agencies by communities to provide certain
services or investments. This vision was lost in the actual design of PADIC.

PADIC has, however, clearly contributed to the mobilization and social organization of rural communities,
thereby creating social capital, and the level of organization may be maintained by many communities after
the end of project funding. PADIC also increased the awareness of issues and opportunities related to
natural resource and environment among the rural population, as came out clearly in the stakeholders
meeting. It created at least a demand for knowledge about environmentally sustainable development among
poor farmers. The limited information introduced in some subprojects about new species or species
combinations increased the notion of how natural resource management can improve productivity and
income. Whether betterment of the quality of life is followed by changes in dealing with natural resources
(as was predicted by some) cannot be answered yet, but warrants serious further study.

A further result of PADIC is the strengthening of civil society organizations, not only through the challenge
of participation in decision-making bodies and their role with the communities, but also as direct
beneficiaries of PADIC subprojects, and also politically. On the other hand, PADIC has done little to
integrate municipal governments in its initiatives, a characteristic of the entire PRODEAGRO project.

Whether PADIC has contributed directly to an "improved strategy for natural resource management,
conservation and environmental protection and sustainable development" in Mato Grosso is doubtful for
now, based on current evidence and impressions. Much deeper and more systematic studies are required to
learn more from this experience. The "fundamental" strategic issues of rain forest use and conservation,
which were at the heart of the project concept and objective, became secondary and were not addressed
anymore by PADIC. Were it not for the parallel zoning and environmental conservation components, the


                                                      - 31 -

project would have become a general rural development and poverty reduction project ­ a noble objective,
but not the original one. PADIC may have helped indirectly, however, to strengthen the social and political
basis on which an improved strategy must continue to build, which was so much lacking at the beginning of
the project. Overall, the PADIC component is rated unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not available. Farm models and related financial indicators were included in the SAR. However, the
agricultural component was dropped at mid-term, and no data are available to replicate and compare the
farm models at completion.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The external shocks to the Brazilian economy, the intervention of international NGOs in concert with local
ones in the case of Rondonia (with repercussions on Mato Grosso), and the Bank's consequent concern
with its reputational risk were the major factors outside the control of the government that affected the
implementation and outcome of PLANAFLORO (and PRODEAGRO).

After successive external shocks since 1998 and devaluation of the Brazilian Real in 1999, GOB restricted
expenditures progressively for on-going projects in order to cope with the crises in line with IMF
requirements. This affected not only counterpart funds, but loan funds as well. This was aggravated by the
application of legal impediments to transfer funds to states with any outstanding debt to the Federal
Government. While some projects and sectors remained shielded from major budget cuts, externally funded
projects with low disbursement capacity and limited relevance to the Federal Government were particularly
affected. Releases of funds to PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO were not only reduced but occurred
usually late in the year, causing delays in implementation and increasing project costs (and the cost of
supervision to the Bank as well).

Concern with its reputation after the POLONOROESTE experience led the Bank to adopt a defensive
posture in relation to NGO criticism of PLANAFLORO and its performance (see section 3.2). In order to
address NGO complaints, the Bank agreed to the new PAIC/PADIC component in each project and shifted
the focus from the projects' initial strategy, which had relied on development of agriculture and
agro-forestry and investments in social and economic infrastructure as part of the spatial logic of the
strategy. Local partisan and grassroots politics took advantage of PAIC/PADIC, scattering subprojects
through most of each state's municipalities rather targeting communities around protected areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The responsibility for project coordination at the federal level was with the Ministry of National Integration
(MIN, or its predecessors), which never assumed a leading role. MIN had no means to influence actions
and policies of other federal agencies with impact on project outcome, such as INCRA, the Ministry of
Environment or its subordinate, IBAMA. The political priority given by MIN to the two projects was



                                                     - 32 -

usually low. As a consequence, federal attention to the project's overall strategy and impact, and its resolve
and power to protect the projects against budget cuts was usually weak. The states were left without much
federal guidance or assistance when they needed to make decisions that had national significance. MIN
never requested that PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO be considered "strategic" and, as such, be
shielded, from the worst budget cuts. In short, there was no effective federal "champion" for these projects.

This was also felt in the zoning components of both projects. Although the Federal Government had created
a Federal Zoning Commission (CCZEE) in 1992, charged with planning, coordinating and following up all
zoning exercises in Brazil, CCZEE paid little attention to Rondonia and Mato Grosso. As a result, each
state followed different methodologies and their databases are cartographically and methodologically
incompatible. In another example of federal oversight, Rondonia enacted the second approximation zoning
plan into state law which conflicted with Brazilian forest law.

Limited interest of the responsible federal Ministry is related to the fact that project activities were defined
by the Legal Agreements and gave little room for Ministry intervention in project design and
implementation, precluding any kind of political benefit. Second, allocating funds to PLANAFLORO and
PRODEAGRO had a high political opportunity cost, in terms of reduced funding to other regional projects
in Brazil, especially irrigation projects in the Northeast (also funded by the Bank), the main political
constituency of MIN.

With respect to sector policies, the National Congress' delay in approving the National System of
Conservation Units affected the project schedule for establishing such areas in the states. Remarkably,
Mato Grosso took the initiative and created its own system before the federal one, and became the first
Brazilian state to do so. More serious, though, was the resolve of the Federal Government, to push ahead
with land reform, with emphasis on Amazonia, which led to a renewed drive for the establishment of
directed settlements by INCRA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Factors subject to the control of the governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso were: lack of political
support in the states; lack of effective project management; ineffectiveness of monitoring and evaluation;
lack of qualified staff for some components; and lack of administrative continuity.

Mato Grosso and Rondonia were societies used to expand the agricultural frontier with an extensive type of
development, not in line with the objectives of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO. Uncertain political
will and weak public support, combined with fiscal constraints at the state level, continuously hampered
project implementation, not least through difficulties in allocating state counterpart funds and funds for
regular operation and maintenance.

As discussed above, the SARs provide only for "coordination" among state and federal agencies. In the
absence of strong, goal-oriented project management and the presence of typical centrifugal political
tendencies of state agencies, mere "coordination," when it occurred at all, was bound to lose sight of
ultimate project objectives and make it almost impossible to get executing agencies to plan and implement
activities coherently with the overall objectives. This allowed state agencies to pursue their particular
corporate or political interests with little regard for the common goal.

Lack of qualified staff also hindered PLANAFLORO's and PRODEAGRO's performance. This was
known at appraisal and was to be addressed by generous technical cooperation. Hiring staff through
technical cooperation, rather than recruiting them as civil servants, works as long as the project lasts, but it



                                                        - 33 -

is not a substitute for institution building, wherever functions and services are concerned that must continue
beyond the life of the project. In the case of zoning, an inexperienced firm was selected, aggravated by the
state governments' (and the Bank's) lack of knowledge of exactly how zoning could become the best
possible planning tool for the state, with the result that the final product was delivered not in the third but in
the seventh year in the case of Rondonia and the tenth year in that of Mato Grosso. An important factor
was also the choice in favor of a consulting firm, even with a mandate of training government staff, which
led the states to limit themselves to mere contract management, without themselves becoming directly
involved in technical, methodological and policy aspects of the work. As a result, the projects did not create
sufficient know-how to allow the states to carry on zoning functions on their own.

As mentioned before, the project monitoring systems did not include impact indicators. Despite deadlines
established in the Legal Agreements, and despite ample technical assistance, project implementation went
ahead without such systems, as project coordination units found output indicators satisfactory. Indicators
for the development objectives would have helped the coordinating units and the Bank to keep track of the
principal goals during implementation. Their absence made it difficult for the ICR team to provide evidence
for the rating of outcomes.

Lastly, administrative discontinuities after changes in state governments affected implementation. Incoming
administrations initially had little "ownership" of the projects in view of their own political agenda. This led
to slow-downs in project implementation at the beginning of each new administration, especially in
Rondonia where three administrations managed PLANAFLORO, but less so in Mato Grosso where only
two administrations oversaw PRODEAGRO, with the last one extending over eight years. In this regard,
the long implementation period were themselves a contributing factor to unsatisfactory implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost amounted to about 90% of appraisal estimates for both operations , even with an actual
implementation period of ten rather than five years. The devaluation of the Brazilian Real led to substantial
savings. Insufficient, delayed and unreliable transfers of federal government funds to the states also
constrained the capacity of the project to spend, particularly after 1998. . Cuts and delays of federal funds
caused adjustments to some contracts, notably for zoning and road restoration and paving. The extended
project period increased the cost of project administration and UNDP technical assistance. The great
majority of expenditures occurred in the five years 1994 through 1998. The loan financed US$177 million,
or 68% of total expenditures, in the case of Mato Grosso, as against 72% foreseen at appraisal. In
Rondonia, the loan funded US$148 million, or 73% of expenditures, the same percentage foreseen at
appraisal.

Appraisal estimates, revised plans after reformulation, and actual expenditures are shown below:
Mato Grosso:



                       Component                             Appraisal      Revision       Actual     of which Loan
 Agro-ecological zoning and Land Regularization                        47.7       37.9          56.4               48.5
Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural                       63.4        46.5         42.6         33.9
Resources
Community Initiative Support Program (PADIC)                      -                38.0         17.3         16.7
Agro-Forestry Development                                              80.5        47.6         35.6         17.9
Water    Supply,    Rural     Electrification and  Road                63.2        62.0         65.6         29.5
Improvement



                                                      - 34 -

Health and Education                                                   17.6          10.4        8.6            5.6

Training, Technical Assistance and Studies                               3.2         25.2       18.5           16.8
Project Administration and Technical Cooperation                       10.1          12.1       13.8            8.8
   Total Cost                                                       285.7         285.7        258.4               177.7



Rondonia:

   Component                                                  Appraisal      Revision       Actual          of which Loan
 Env. Conservation, Management and Protection                         64.8         60.9         57.5                    51.0
 Agro-Forestry Development                                             81.4        52.1         35.3           21.0
Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services                             71.5        53.3         70.3           42.2
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation                      11.2        42.6         18.6           27.1
Support to Community Driven Initiatives Program                    -               20.0          7.8            7.8
   Total Cost                                                     228.9         228.9        203.8                   149.1



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is taken as the durability of the achievements generated by the project (or expected to be
generated) in the face of risk and adversity. The achievements under the specific objectives (discussed in
Section 4) were assessed with respect to the following factors representing potential risks: technical,
financial, economic, social support, environmental, government ownership, stakeholder ownership and
institutional support. For sustainability to be likely, all relevant factors have to be met. Details are shown
in the table below:


             Specific Objective            Overall     Techn.  Financl  Econ.  Social   Env.  Gov.     Stkhldr.    Inst.
                                        Sustainability                         Suppo          Ownshp   Ownshp     Support
                                                                                 rt
  1. provide a coherent incentives      U              -       N        -      M      -       M        M          M
  framework for the sustainable
  development
2. improve the knowledge of the        U              H       N       -       M       H      M        H         M
natural resource base
3. reduce environmental degradation U                 H       N       -       M       H      M        N         M
and ensure the long-term preservation
of the biodiversity
4. protect and enforce the borders of  U              S       M        -      M       H      M        N         M
conservation units and indigenous
reserves; control and prevent illegal
deforestation, wood transport and
forest fires;
5. develop sustainable agriculture and NR             -       -        -      -       -      -        -         -
forestry
6. support priority investments in     U              M       N       -       H       M      H        H         N
socio-economic infrastructure and
services in those areas
7. strengthen the technical and        U              -       N       -       H       -      M        M         M



                                                       - 35 -

operational capacity of State
institutions responsible for zoning,
protection and management of the
environment, and agricultural and
forestry support services
8. Rural quality of life                    U              M        N         M     H  -    H         H         N
9. Rural social capital                     L              -        -         -     H  -    H         H         M
 10. Strengthening civil society              U             -        N         -    H  -     N        H         -
 organizations



H = high; S= substantial; M = modest; N = negligible;
HL = highly likely; L = likely; U = unlikely; HU = highly unlikely; NR = not rated.

Development of sustainable agriculture and (agro)forestry was not rated because of the negligible outcome
of this component. Achievements are likely sustainable only under one objective - social capital created.
Overall sustainability of the project achievements is rated as unlikely. The most important factors leading
to this assessment are (i) the likely lack of financial resources for maintenance of staff, institutions,
infrastructure and support to organizations and (ii) the poor of stakeholder ownership for environmental
management, control and protection.

The financial situation of the state, with its high public debt, as well as the perceived priorities of the state
government, make it unlikely that adequate funds will be available (or, if available, will be allocated) for
certain functions supported under the project or for the maintenance of public infrastructure. A substantial
part of the operating cost of agencies that participated in the project was provided through UNDP, and this
support has ended without, in most cases, being taken up by the state with its own funds. Some continued
support may be forthcoming through PPG7 in the area of environmental management and zoning, and
FEMA has already strengthened its self-financing capacity but is not self-sufficient. INTERMAT is ready
to continue its land regularization program, but does not have the necessary funds. Community
infrastructure will likely suffer from lack of funds for maintenance and replacement, as few sub-projects
have made provisions for the future. Four of the specific objectives above could be considered as likely
sustainable if continued financial support were likely.

Institutional support is threatened by discontinuity in management, lack of incentives for staff performance,
or lack of institutional arrangements after project closure. Important functions considered in this context
left incomplete, fragile or inadequate at the end of the project are: zoning/land use planning, addressing
rural quality of life through continued management, improvement and monitoring of a program like
PADIC, organizational and planning arrangements for systematic maintenance of infrastructure,
particularly roads, management of parks and reserves and enforcement of their integrity and that of
indigenous lands, and capacity to formulate policies and policy instruments to give incentives to sustainable
development. Strengthening of NGOs relies mostly on funds received under foreign-financed programs or
projects or contracts under such projects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                            - 36 -

The idea, identification and preparation of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO as follow-up projects to
POLONOROESTE were timely and responsive to the Brazilian Government's environmental agenda
launched by the 1988 Constitution. FAO supported the first stages of preparation, still during the
implementation of POLONOROESTE. At the appraisals in 1989 and 1991, the Bank's large and
multidisciplinary teams were notable, reflecting the priority attached by the Bank, although more team-like
interaction and use of synergies among mission members could have improved the effective integration of
the various project components. The Bank behaved like a partner who would listen and agree to incorporate
the various governments' main concerns into the project design. Nevertheless, staff skepticism within the
Bank about these two loans remained high throughout the lending process and afterwards due in part to the
incomplete incorporation of lessons learned from POLONOROESTE and the findings and
recommendations of parallel Bank ESW on Amazonian development and political economy of the frontier.
Given the somewhat doubtful ownership on the part of the Borrower and state governments mentioned in
Section 3.1, the Bank may have taken more of a lead than advisable. The Bank took care, however, to
discuss and define required policy actions by the state governments prior to project start and to have them
registered in side letters.

On the technical side, Mato Grosso staff who participated in the preparation process report that the Bank
provided little space for each state to adapt project design, which also contributed to more difficult
implementation from the outset. This was apparently not the case in Rondonia, where the project
preparation team had been part of the POLONOROESTE coordination and hence was more experienced.
Less Bank flexibility in Mato Grosso may have been due to the fact that that state's project was modeled
on the already agreed Rondonia design, and prepared and appraised later. Greater flexibility would have
been helpful as Mato Grosso has significantly different geographic and economic conditions than
Rondonia: less than half of the state is covered by rain forests, it has an older land tenure structure with
mostly large to very large holdings, and a highly developed, modern agriculture.

Quality at entry was discussed at length in Section 3 and rated unsatisfactory for both projects.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank changed task managers for the projects three times between 1992 and 1996. Given the
importance of these two operations,, however, it established an office to oversee their supervision in Cuiabá
(Mato Grosso) and appointed a member of the earlier FAO team who had participated in
POLONOROESTE and in the preparation of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO to head the office and
closely monitor and support to the projects in the field. This turned out to be a good decision in many
respects, but perhaps reduced the distance of the Bank from the projects and provided too much "elbow
room" in terms of overseeing their implementation. . Given the extreme complexity and initial condition of
the projects, as the QAG assessment in FY00 states, "there was room for many things to go wrong which
apparently have not, in part because of the close supervision which was located in the project area". Project
teams in both states unanimously affirm that the Bank's local representative played a key role not only in
advising on routine implementation issues, including procurement and compliance with fiduciary issues, but
also as a "diplomatic firefighter" at sensitive moments and a mediator between NGOs and the two state
governments. He stayed on for nine years (1993-2001), but moved to the Brasilia office in 2000. It is
noteworthy that the Cuiabá office reviewed all procurement actions, not only those requiring prior Bank
review.

State project teams and independent evaluators do not t see much value added to project implementation by
the annual missions from headquarters from 1992 through 1996, other than their checking for compliance



                                                      - 37 -

with actions agreed during previous missions, and establishing new ones. In 1997, when the staff member
based in Cuiabá became also task manager, Headquarters support to missions was reduced. The Bank used
the same consultants on missions for certain aspects of the projects (environment, zoning, roads) over many
years. Their inputs and advice were (usually) highly valued by the state partners. The overall supervision
effort was certainly adequate, it exceeded normal levels by far.

Throughout the long project period, the Bank focused diligently, though too narrowly, on keeping the many
individual project activities on track and resolving conflictive situations with NGOs or in indigenous lands
and conservation areas. In the process , however, it may have lost sight of the big picture, of the
development objectives, perhaps because attention to detail becomes a priority when supervision is located
so close to the implementing agencies. The Bank's attention to the big picture increased considerably after
the Rondonia Forum of NGOs invoked the Inspection Panel in June 1995, and during the subsequent MTR
and reformulation process of 1996/97. At that time, the Bank may have become hostage to its own
commitment to the projects, its fear of a second reputational loss in the Amazon, the expectations of
national and international NGO groups, and the governments involved. The NGOs' call for the Inspection
Panel and the MTR were, in retrospect, useful interventions, alerting the Bank to the danger of the projects
drifting off course. The option of canceling project support, which was seriously considered by the Bank
prior to the MTR, was discarded when both local NGOs and state governments lobbied effectively for
continuing the projects. Conflict resolution was paramount to the Bank at that time, even at the cost of
giving up part of the initial logic of the project strategy (as discussed in Sections 3.2 and 3.4 above). Given
the unanimity with regard to the new community-based demand-driven component after negotiations
between NGOs and governments, the Bank did not insist on alternatives to achieve the objectives of the
dropped components in a different form.

The Bank's rapport with the NGOs changed over time. In the early 90s, neither the Bank nor the
governments had much experience with NGO participation. Giving NGOs a seat on supervisory project
committees was deemed appropriate and sufficient; otherwise, NGOs were apparently viewed more as a
complicating factor. As the NGOs' relationship with the state governments deteriorated further, the Bank
was sought to mediate the dialogue, and tried to do so. This role was criticized severely by the MTR (which
it is worth remembering was carried out by independent Brazilian consultants) which considered it as
inappropriate and not conducive to a healthy relationship between NGOs and government. It did not avoid,
in the case of Rondonia, the request for Inspection Panel review, led and supported by international NGOs.
The period of conflict through 1996 actually served to substantially strengthen local NGOs and helped
them to define their own positions towards project performance and design. During the second phase of the
projects (1998-2002) there were few problems between the Bank and the NGOs. When some NGOs later
turned into consultant firms contracted by the state governments for environmental education or park
co-management, they asked the Bank again to help mediate conflicts, this time related to their performance
and the state's contract management. At that time, the Bank refused to intervene between client and
contractors.

The Bank was chastised by several parties (including the MTR) for not being sufficiently firm in enforcing
covenants. For example, the Bank's remedies were not applied when the Rondonia legislature changed the
first approximation zoning law adversely, but were applied when project resources had been diverted. The
Bank was (belatedly) firm with regard to INCRA settlements in unsuitable areas in Rondonia, but not in
the case of Mato Grosso (where there was also much less attention on the part of local and, especially,
international NGOs). With respect to safeguard policies and fiduciary issues, the Bank took action as
required when such issues were identified. For example, it was forceful in assuring indigenous rights and
the removal of mining intruders from the Sararé area in Mato Grosso. It did suspend disbursements when
the diversion of loan funds in Rondonia was discovered until these funds were recovered, despite serious


                                                       - 38 -

interruptions in project implementation. Independent evaluations in both states found, however, that the
Bank was too patient when it came to slow government compliance with agreements reached in successive
mission Aide Memoires. Actions on such agreements were often delayed, and were then requested again in
following Aide Memoires.

Some other failures to enforce covenants deserve mention. The first concerns the establishment and
maintenance of a system of indicators for project development objectives. With the breadth of project
objectives, it was difficult to define measurable impact indicators. Despite UNDP technical assistance,
either an understanding on development indicators could not be reached (Mato Grosso insisted on output
indicators) or the system was rejected by some of the participating agencies (Rondonia). Bank staff
eventually gave up. This was not helpful to the Borrower, implementing agencies nor the Bank , who were,
thus, less able to keep their focus on project impacts and outcome. The Bank missed another opportunity to
better define the objectives and develop meaningful indicators when the project was restructured. Moreover,
the ups and downs of the annual deforestation rate in both states and survey of actual land use by remote
sensing rarely seemed to have received adequate attention from decision makers, except in Mato Grosso
when it established its surveillance and licensing system in 1999.

A failure not at all unique to these two projects in Brazil was the Bank's tacit acceptance of the
consequences of federal budget management. Brazil's compliance with IMF conditions in the wake of
global crises, particularly from 1999 onwards, led to the release of insufficient loan and counterpart funds,
often with long delays, by the Federal Government to the projects. The Bank supported, of course, strict
federal budget management, but the consequences for Bank-funded projects were serious, and the cuts
violated the Loan Agreements (Section 3.01). Repeated requests for extension of closing dates were another
consequence. While the Bank intervened with attempts to shield loan-funded projects from cuts and delays,
it never treated them as breach of the agreements nor invoked its remedies on these grounds. The issue
came up repeatedly at annual portfolio reviews with government, but was apparently treated as unavoidable
under the circumstances. This dilemma of conflicting Bank objectives with regard to Brazil's budget
management and smooth project implementation is now being addressed by the Bank with the Federal
Government.

Parallel to the two projects, the Bank helped build the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests
(PPG7), a multi-donor program started in 1992, led by the federal government, and aimed essentially at the
same objectives as PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO. PPG7 has been actively supporting "integrated
environmental management" across agencies in Mato Grosso, but less successfully in Rondonia. However,
Bank staff rarely managed to coordinate effectively among PPG7 and the two projects.

Various evaluators, including the QAG, felt that Bank management may not have paid proper attention to
continuously troubled project implementation. Management was well aware of reputational risks that could
arise from a second failed attempt to support sustainable development in the Amazon and remained
engaged, but this engagement was only visible when critical decisions had to be made (on restructuring,
canceling, closing or extending the loans, for instance) or when action was required with high-level federal
officials applying pressure to allocate sufficient funds for the projects. In the case of Rondonia,
management involvement was intense when the Inspection Panel was invoked, leading up to, during and
immediately following the MTR and when working with the Federal Government to recover diverted
project funds from that state.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Unsatisfactory.



                                                     - 39 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

As the Borrower of two large loans associated with complex and highly visible projects to be executed by
states, the Federal Government was unusually attentive to the preparation of both projects. The Brazilian
Inter-ministerial Commission that selects projects for external funding (COFIEX) established several
conditions for approving both projects. Among these were: (a) a baseline study to be carried out from the
project outset, which would be re-assessed at MTR and upon project completion; (b) inclusion in the Legal
Agreements of the States' obligation to provide resources for the operational phase of the project; (c) the
States' obligation to involve all implementing agencies in the establishment of the monitoring indicators;
and (d) the creation of an inter-ministerial group to monitor implementation of both projects.

At the state level, the main implementing agencies and NGOs were formally involved in project appraisal.
However, as pointed out under "Quality at Entry" above, not bringing all implementation agencies
effectively on board in terms of dissemination and their full assimilation of the projects' overall objectives
adversely affected coordination among them during implementation. Involvement of civil society and its
organizations was almost negligible as, particularly in Mato Grosso, they were not prepared to assess
project objectives and activities in light of their needs. In Rondonia, the NGOs were able to agree on a
Protocol with the State, which later formed the basis of the first official public complaint against the
project -- the legal documents negotiated with the Bank did not incorporate important agreements
established in the Protocol, such as the need for immediate action in some project areas. Local society in
the two states as a whole, including the private sector, was certainly not in agreement with specific project
objectives, and the state governments did little to the disseminate them, perhaps for that very reason.

Once the governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso had approved the respective laws that established the
first agro-ecological zoning and had started the dialogue with NGOs and signed off on agreed policy
actions, the Federal Government (just as the Bank) overestimated the evidence of local ownership, political
commitment, public support and readiness for implementation, and gave its final agreement to the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

At the federal level, priority given to both projects remained low throughout their implementation. As the
preparation process concluded, attention waned and the inter-ministerial group to monitor implementation
did not function for either project. The role of the Federal Government was essentially limited to receiving,
e, transferring and accounting for loan funds, and to transferring its own counterpart funds to the states.
The perceived low spending capacity of both projects discouraged the significant budget allocations
required for project implementation as initially proposed, particularly in a context of increasing fiscal
constraints. Neither loan nor federal counterpart funds were transferred in a timely fashion or in the
required amounts, and this became a severe problem after 1998, contributing to multiple loan extension
requests. On occasion, funds were released but the federal ministry in charge reallocated them to more
visible projects.

Not surprisingly, the Federal Government did not act as a monolithic entity during the period of project
implementation. The inconsistent behavior of INCRA in locating settlements in "forbidden" zones has
already been mentioned. The relationship of the federal environment agency IBAMA with the state
environmental agencies (FEMA in Mato Grosso and SEDAM in Rondonia) was at best uncoordinated, at
worst conflictive. No specific role for IBAMA was foreseen in the project designs. Furthermore, some
transfers of federal land to the State of Rondonia, although formally agreed with the Bank, never took place
at all due to "national security" considerations.


                                                       - 40 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

At the state level, priority was variable and selective. With each change of administration, the projects were
adversely affected due to lack of (at least initial) political commitment and staffing changes in key project
positions. This was less serious in Mato Grosso, where the project spanned only two administrations.
During elections, candidates might argue against the state project, only to accept it when elected.
Insufficient state counterpart funds were also a serious constraint undermining the financing of relevant
operational costs. Moreover, state governments did not institute forceful project management at the highest
level, but left it (with the Bank's agreement) at project "coordination" without real authority to ensure that
the implementing agencies and project activities were effectively aligned. Nevertheless, each project
coordinating unit, with the support of UNDP technical assistance, was able to keep the project more or less
moving in the numerous implementing agencies -- despite huge difficulties, including overlapping and
conflicting activities. With low empowerment of the coordination unit, it would have been even more
important to carry out an intensive dissemination and team-building program among the implementing
agencies and interested groups in civil society, bringing everybody up to speed on the project strategy and
strengthening synergetic links among activities. Joint development and adoption of indicators for
monitoring outputs and outcomes would have guided implementation better towards the achievement of
project objectives.

The Rondonia state government tried to stick to its first zoning law as required by the Project Agreement,
at sometimes heavy political cost, but was not always successful due to limited political backing. Its
support for environmental actions (such as surveillance and enforcement) and for strengthening its
environmental agency, SEDAM, however, were not strong throughout most of the project period, although
it managed to create and demarcate a number of state conservation units (on federal land) and improve the
state's legal framework for environmental conservation. Based on work under the project, Rondonia has
managed to approve a new state zoning law in 2000. A one-time diversion of project funds in 1999 was
corrected, with a long delay, by the following state administration. Handling of consultant contracts for
management of conservation areas during the last year of project implementation, with the interference of
the States attorney, led to serious delays in these activities in view of the loan closing date.

In Mato Grosso, the government managed to create a strong environmental agency, new conservation areas
(mainly on private land, and covering much less area than foreseen) and a rural licensing system to enforce
forest law and control deforestation on larger properties. During the last year of project implementation, the
state government, in response to political pressures, proposed reductions to the area of a state park to the
legislature, but has subsequently tried veto or to delay such action. Not much attention appears to have
been paid to the existing zoning law, particularly with regard to state and federal land settlements. The
refined zoning in Mato Grosso was much delayed and may have less than the desired quality, due to poor
handling of the contract with the consulting firm preparing the zoning diagnostic studies and proposal,
despite insistent and repeated advice from the Bank's consultant.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


What went wrong?




                                                      - 41 -

The outcome of both projects is obviously not satisfactory to the Bank, and in many ways it is not
satisfactory to the client governments involved either. Deforestation did clearly not decline in either state,
and socio-economic development advanced less than expected. While this report has discussed quality at
entry, Bank/Borrower performance and external factors, it is useful to distill the few key factors that, in the
view of this evaluation, may have contributed to this outcome.

·         The objective of the projects was to change behavior of private and public agents in the use of the
natural resources of tropical rain forests. The three main instruments to bring this about, synergistically,
were zoning (a restriction on land use), the promotion of intensified land use and the provision of
infrastructure and services in areas already cleared, and the creation and protection of reserved areas.
However, the projects did not define the desired outcome in terms of actual or planned land use (zoning),
which made in principle any zoning plan acceptable, including Rondonia's sanctioning of the status quo (in
terms of forest clearing) with its new zoning law. While the agreed environmental project agenda was
implemented to varying degrees by both states, albeit after much Bank insistence, disappointment stems
from the perception that the traditional development paradigm, and thus the land use trends, prevalent in
these frontier states at project start have changed little under the project.
·         The project concept did not recognize the strong existing economic and political forces that were
(and still are) working in favor of continued expansion of forest clearing - the "political economy" of the
frontier states. Consequently, any project would have to work against the strong current of such forces.
Had meaningful consultations with the true stakeholders, whose behavior was expected to change, taken
place beforehand, the dimension of the "economic mainstream" of the states would have become apparent.
In as far as the underlying economic forces have not changed, deep changes in land use policies and
behavior of public and private agents should perhaps not be expected.
·         In the strive for decentralization after POLONOROESTE, state governments became the principal
partners and executors of the projects. Despite all the merits of decentralization, it may have been
premature to turn over the sensitive issue of land use entirely to the states. On the other hand, creation of a
"coherent incentives framework for sustainable development" was expected (almost) only from the states,
but should have required adjustments to federal policies and programs as well, which were not the focus of
project preparation.
·         At the risk of undue simplification, the Bank had a strong interest in the environmental objectives
of the projects, in the aftermath of POLONOROESTE, but saw development - in the right places - as part
of an overall strategy. The state governments (and their societies) were much more interested in
development, particularly infrastructure. They would not accept a purely "environmental" project, and the
Bank would not support a purely "developmental" one. There was a risky element of "quid pro quo" in
negotiating project scope, with the parties giving different weights given to objectives and components:
investments for socio-economic development would be funded, as long as an environmental agenda (zoning,
setting aside of reserves and their protection) was also implemented. With the official commitment to the
environmental objectives, the state governments set themselves up, in a certain way, against the local
"economic mainstream".
·         In spite of formally approved initial zoning laws, there was no sufficiently deep commitment on the
part of the states' society to be bound by the provisions of (first approximation) zoning. Refined (second
approximation) zoning came too late to change such commitment, and is not binding yet in either state.
Other, non-coercive instruments of "getting the zoning plan implemented" were not devised.
·         The sustainability of project results remains highly questionable, not only because appropriate
arrangements were absent, but even more importantly because the thrust of the projects was, and likely
still is, not in line with the local mainstream (although some seeds for changed values, attitudes and
behavior may have been laid by the projects). The institutional capacity to carry out the projects was
highly limited from the outset, and technical assistance, which by its nature is limited to the duration of the



                                                      - 42 -

projects, did not remedy that deficiency in a sustainable way, some notable advances in institutional
capacity notwithstanding.
·        The project reformulation after the mid-term review did not address the principal shortcomings of
the original projects. They accommodated one part of society ("organized civil society"), but not private
sector interests, on the basis of a vague strategy of community-driven development, largely without any
solid and proven natural resource management technologies that would have reverted the mainstream use
(clearing) of rain forests. This outcome of the mid-term review can be partially attributed to the Bank's risk
aversion in regard to possible criticisms from NGOs (local and international) and to its willingness of
possibly putting the project on back on track.

Prior lessons

At a time when the Bank is considering the expansion of its engagement in the Brazilian Amazon, and as
harmonizing environmental conservation there with economic and social development continues to be a
tough challenge, any possible lessons from the PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO projects will be of
utmost importance and urgency. The projects are good examples of what can happen when lessons
available from previous projects similar in nature and implemented in the same physical, political-economic
and institutional environment (e.g., POLONOROESTE) are not adequately incorporated in project design.
Many of the problems encountered by these two operations were predictable and could perhaps have been
avoided, had all lessons learned been taken into account during preparation. These lessons were set out in
both contemporaneous OED evaluations of POLONOROESTE and in Bank analytical work on the
challenges of sustainable development in the Brazilian Amazon. They included, inter alia, the following:

·        the importance of understanding and taking into account the political economy of the Amazonian
frontier, including the need to consider the interests, motivations and incentives of all local stakeholders;
·        the fundamental importance of securing true local stakeholder commitment to key project
objectives and components (ownership), especially environmental and social ones;
·        the risks ­ as well as advantages ­ associated with the decentralization of control over investment
projects in frontier regions from the federal to state (and local) governments ­ which was actually and
naively viewed as a "panacea" in the respective appraisal reports -- precisely because of the differencing
economic and political incentives vis-à-vis natural resource use and conservation at these different levels;
and
·        the importance of building ­ and "internalizing" ­ adequate, sustainable institutional capacity at
the state level to manage project interventions and associated follow-on activities.

Although such lessons are not new and were (or should have been) known during project preparation, some
of them are nevertheless discussed again below.

A.       Limit the complexity of projects and consider sequential implementation

There are limits to the number of components and sub-components than can be included under one project
and one management unit. These limits vary from case to case, but no project should attempt to implement
twenty or more sub-components in parallel. Where simultaneous implementation of all the necessary
activities for a given objective is obviously impossible, sequencing should be considered.

B.        For ownership, don't fail to involve all the stakeholders

Government cannot be the only stakeholder involved in the design and negotiation of natural resources



                                                      - 43 -

management projects, especially on the agricultural (and extractive) frontier, designed to interfere
profoundly with the activities and interests of the rural economy of and the associated political interests in a
state. Where project strategy goes against the grain of a large part of society, as was at least initially the
case, government ownership is necessary but far from not sufficient. Identification of other stakeholders,
analysis of their interests, thorough consultations and their involvement (or at least acquiescence) are
essential. This process takes time and should not be shortchanged. More specific recommendations based
on the lessons of these two projects in this regard are:

-   Stakeholders are not only the "beneficiaries" or "civil society"; they include also potential opponents,
    private sector interests and local governments and politicians;
-   Don't skimp on or delay stakeholder consultation, from the very beginning of project design; prepare
    for consultations in advance and have a methodology for the same;
-   Explain transparently to stakeholders what is planned, without hiding anything;
-   Be ready to adjust project design after consultations and re-assess the chances of project success;
-   If there is stiff opposition from significant stakeholders, consider postponing, implementation in stages,
    or, as a last resort, abandoning the project;
-   Without having carried out this `homework," the project may fail to correctly assess the incentives for
    stakeholder behavior and thus, jeopardize the perspective of satisfactory outcomes.

C.       If project strategy hinges on an important pre-condition, create that condition first

The refinement (second approximation) of state zoning plans was a crucial part of the strategy, to
overcome the technical weaknesses of the first approximation and to increase public ownership and
acceptance. Given the deficiencies of the first approximation and the fact that it was never truly discussed
with the stakeholders, it might have been better (a) to complete the second approximation zoning before
beginning the other components; (b) not to turn the first zoning, but only the refined second approximation
into law; (c) not to oblige the state governments to comply with a zoning law (with regard of its investment
programs) before the improved zoning plan had been accepted. Similarly, other important preconditions
for smooth implementation, such as minimum capacity of executing agencies for the job they would have
to do, should be met before project start. This would have called either for a separate small project or a
preparation facility just for zoning and capacity building, or else for the sequencing of project components
(through the use of disbursement conditions), or for an Adaptable Program Loan (which did not yet exist in
1992). In fact, this is precisely the type of situation where a programmatic approach would have been
useful.

D.       Don't lend to the Federal Government if the project will be executed by one State

Both loans were made to the Federal Government, which was to pass virtually all loan funds on to the
states for execution. This turned out to be inefficient. Funneling loan proceeds through the federal budget
created severe funding shortages and delays. Ministers of Finance or Planning do not identify as much with
the objectives of state projects as State Secretaries of Finance or Planning, and often have other priorities.
This lesson was already emerging with regard to the Northeast rural poverty projects at the time. The
Bank's practice today is indeed much more geared towards loans to states. Obligations of the Federal
Government related to its own policies, programs and agencies could still be included in guarantee
agreements.

E.       Make sure that relevant federal agencies and federal policies "play the same game"

Project success or failure depended to a large degree on the cooperation of powerful federal agencies, such


                                                       - 44 -

as INCRA for land reform, IBAMA for environmental management and protection, and FUNAI for
indigenous affairs, to mention just the most relevant. The loan agreements obliged the Borrower to cause
INCRA and FUNAI to enter into operating agreements with the states, but did not foresee any role for
IBAMA. INCRA turned out to be less a cooperating agency than a strong, virtually independent
stakeholder whose potential operating space was threatened by the projects through zoning and whose
personnel in Rondonia did not feel bound by any federal agreements. In fostering ownership, it is important
(i) to include all federal agencies, including their representations in the states, early in project preparation
and stakeholder consultations, and (ii) to assess carefully and objectively their history, guiding corporate
values and willingness to cooperate; and (iii) not to rely blindly on covenants and operating agreements.

F.       Don't confine "environment" to a component - it is a cross-cutting concern

Project design grouped all activities related to environmental management and protection in one discrete
component. The importance of environmental considerations to other components, such as agriculture,
infrastructure, health and education, as a cross-cutting concern was obscured in this way. While some
environmental functions clearly require their own components, such as the establishment and management
of parks, preoccupation with sustainability and conservation of natural assets should permeate all project
activities and agencies and should not be restricted to a component.

G.       Projects need to be managed, not "coordinated"

"Coordination" is a term frequently used in Brazil's public sector, even when management is really meant.
Coordination attempts to get cooperation from actors not under one's control. Management, on the other
hand, implies formal or de-facto power to make actors work to achieve a common goal, individually and
jointly; it builds effective teams and provides leadership. In the case of PLANAFLORO and
PRODEAGRO, the design provided merely for coordination, not for management. As a result, project units
lacked power (except to withhold funds) over the executing agencies with their divergent interests and were
incapable of building teams, providing leadership towards the larger objectives, or of effectively informing
participant agencies on objectives, strategy and roles. Power over state agencies is only at the Governor's
level (and even there are limitations). In both projects, the coordinating units were frequently "trumped" by
other state and federal agencies, that held more power at a particular moment.

H.       Complex projects benefit from "adaptive planning"

No project in Brazil had previously attempted to bring about such a significant change of land use in a
whole state. At the outset, it was probably not clear what the final outcome would be and what would
happen on the way. Objectives were vague, perhaps appropriately so. The projects aimed in part at
knowledge generation and capacity building, public and private. "Where capacity development is
concerned, in the public or private sphere, blueprint approaches seldom work. Most development
programs are voyages of technological and sociological discovery, in which the goal and the path to that
goal remain highly uncertain" (D. Horton, based on Albert Hirschman.

Project activities were implemented by the agencies in parallel fashion, with defined inputs and outputs, but
without their receiving feedback on impacts. Both projects had mid-term reviews which provided an
opportunity to take stock and propose revisions to strategy and content. Such one-time evaluations and
course corrections are essential, but may not be enough. In complex projects laden with uncertainty like
these, monitoring and feedback on the basis of well-defined indicators (which did not exist in this case)
should be continuous. Projects should have their own built-in learning capacity, where feedback on
performance, outputs and impacts is collected and analyzed, and planning, even the basic design, is


                                                       - 45 -

adjusted in the light of what has been learned ("adaptive management" ). This would, however, require
even more continuous Bank attention and involvement, well beyond routine supervision. With a more
flexible approach, project outputs and costs would likely differ from those at appraisal, and even objectives
and impacts may vary from original expectations. This should be acceptable as long as there is agreement
along the way. Where learning and adaptation are resisted, or where changes to principal objectives would
cause them to deviate too much from the original ones, the Bank can always consider an exit.

I.       Institutional strengthening is more than hiring and training staff, and not all institutional
deficiencies can be corrected with technical assistance

The traditional way of strengthening institutions has been to hire more staff, train staff, acquire equipment
and vehicles, and provide office space. Often, advisors are posted at the level of management of an
institution or in specific departments. Less often, organizational changes are made. Strengthening should
mean making an institution capable of what it is supposed to do for a project or program. Where
institutional objectives, culture and values are at odds with the chosen project objectives and strategy, even
the best staffing, training and equipping will not make an institution capable. This was probably the case
with the agricultural research and extension agencies in both projects. Project preparation and appraisal
should look not only at the stated mission and mandate of an institution, but also understand its underlying
goals, the dynamics of its organizational structure and internal processes, and the incentives for staff
behavior. Ideally, everyone in the institution should agree on goals and results and indicators beforehand. If
this turns out to be difficult or impossible, the institution should be dropped from the plans and alternative
arrangements should be considered, or else the entire component or project should be dropped.

It is an ever-present temptation to compensate for institutional shortcomings with hiring of "incremental"
staff through a technical assistance mechanism for the duration of a project. Where an institution or service
is not needed after the project (as in the case of engineering works), this is acceptable. Where a lasting
capacity must be created to ensure sustainability, technical assistance should be limited in time and work
with a "learning counterpart" who will eventually take over. If the client does not want to create
counterpart learning positions for permanent functions during implementation, the component (and if
necessary, the project) should be dropped, as there is obviously insufficient ownership. Moreover, if
government can obtain qualified personnel for certain positions or activities only through better-paying
channels (e.g., UNDP consultancies), it will need to be able to pay better itself after the project, or else
such positions or activities are unsustainable.

J.       Zoning is more than a technical exercise

Zoning was first adopted in Rondonia and Mato Grosso to satisfy Bank requirements, not to respond to a
felt need by a wide spectrum of the states' population. There should be knowledge and ownership on the
part of the affected population before zoning starts with regard to zoning concepts and objectives, and later
on ownership of the final result, as this is a prerequisite for change on the part of public and private agents.

Both projects chose to hire consultant firms to carry out zoning, which was perceived as an eminently
technical task. (Later, other Amazonian states preferred to rely on their own staff to learn and undertake the
zoning themselves, with specific contributions from consultants.) But stakeholders were not effectively
involved before zoning started. It is important to recognize the proper role of technical studies within a
zoning process, which is ultimately a political one. Zoning is not finished when multi-colored final maps
and detailed recommendations are on the table. In principle, zoning should be understood as a social and
political process of negotiation (conflict resolution) to arrive at a broadly acceptable plan of land use, based
on adequate information concerning capabilities and limitations of land and natural resources, economic


                                                       - 46 -

opportunities, impact on environmental services, current trends, etc. In some cases, arrangements will need
to be proposed together with zoning restrictions to compensate the losers, or to make payments for
environmental services. Technical and scientific studies should play an ancillary, problem-solving role and
address information and knowledge gaps to support decision making. The State of Acre has apparently
understood this and embedded the technical work in a social and political process.

Zoning should be flexible. Hard lines drawn on maps may harden the attitudes of stakeholders and draw
attention away from the analysis and reasoning behind the lines, which should be at the heart of
discussions. To be convincing, the reasoning must be explicit and follow a methodology based on
transparent and agreed principles, criteria and rules. The recommendations should be replicable by different
analysts given the same data and methodology, and not based on intuition.

Zoning was done at the state level. The states had no indication as to national/federal guidelines or
directives for land use in the Amazon, apart from the legal reserve requirement in private properties and the
location of national parks and indigenous lands. Indicative or normative macro-zoning of the entire Amazon
region has never been done. This was not perceived as a problem by Rondonia and Mato Grosso, but Brazil
may wish to have a national vision of land use in the Amazon and its other biomes take precedence over the
sum of the state zoning plans, as interests at the national, as at the global, level vis-à-vis those at the
individual state levels in terms of resource use may differ.

Zoning plans should be consistent with a state's financial capacity. No state in the Amazon, or elsewhere in
Brazil, can afford to spend US$20-30 million on zoning without external support. Costly, comprehensive
and data-intensive forms of zoning may not be required to come to decisions that are "good enough" for the
objectives at hand. The benefits of increasing the quality of a zoning decision with a certain study or survey
should be compared to its incremental cost.

Where zoning is adopted, a state should also create capacity for (a) carrying zoning work forward,
updating it and maintaining data bases, (b) meeting demands for data by the public, and (c) to do spatial
planning ("ordenamento territorial") and integrate it into the overall state sustainable development planning
function. This is now understood in both states, but not yet implemented. Professional capacity for
integrating the various physical and socio-economic themes in the process of landscape planning, is a
scarce resource but is needed to come to well-founded, defensible zoning recommendations. Eventually,
zoning must be taken down to the municipal level, and here solid capacity at the state level will be very
helpful. Some more specific recommendations in relation to zoning are:

-   Start with a process including all groups of stakeholders, not only with technical studies, and evaluate
    stakeholder interests carefully;
-   Make sure all legitimate stakeholders participate ­ even the normally absent ones;
-   Help people think together about natural resource potentials and constraints and associated
    implications for their use and sustainability, about environmental services, and possible problems;
-   Take higher-order (e.g., national, regional) zoning orientations into account;
-   Facilitate the adoption of commonly accepted visions, directives and principles, and encourage
    government and community to pass these to technical staff as essential input;
-   In negotiations, somebody must play the role of "advocate of nature"; probably the state environmental
    agency initially, until constituencies have grown that will defend those interests;
-   Don't study everything ­ just what is needed for "good-enough" zoning decisions, within a realistic
    budget;
-   Prepare society and stakeholders for meaningful discussions and negotiations by providing some
    minimal necessary prior knowledge;


                                                     - 47 -

-   Draw the focus of attention away from lines on maps and towards the rationale behind
    recommendations, and be flexible;
-   Have and apply a methodology for conflict resolution;
-   Once there is reasonable consensus, ensure that everybody knows what it means for their land;
-   Think about (economic) instruments to make zoning "stick";
-   A law may not be necessary. If there is a law, make it binding on the public sector (licenses,
    investments, public credit), and influence private sector behavior with incentives or disincentives. Build
    in flexibility.

K.       Community-driven development must be given time to be driven by the community

Many PAIC/PADIC sub-projects did not originate from felt needs of specific rural communities. The
notion of a homogeneous local community whose members all agree on goals and values is often a fiction.
Some associations were created only because funds could be obtained. Thorough community discussions of
options and design did not always take place. Often, proposals were prepared rapidly by technical staff
based on standard blueprints, and certain design elements were essentially imposed onto the communities
by project management (such as agro-forestry in Rondonia). Eventually, many communities took up more
than they could handle given their organizational and administrative capacity.

Once a grant facility like PAIC/PADIC is established, there are strong incentives to mobilize unsatisfied
social "demands" and to make them manifest. True community-driven development requires time for
communities to organize themselves, discuss their needs and produce initiatives that have full local
ownership; otherwise, "half-cooked" proposals without true community backing may come forward. This
implies the need to perhaps start out with smaller, less ambitious community projects ($100,000 is a huge
amount of money to handle for poor rural communities). Communities will need help and guidance on
conducing their process of organization and, knowledge of options available, but do not need proposals
imposed on them from above or the outside. In this context, the presumption that existing NGOs
necessarily serve local community interests best may not always be correct, even where NGOs claim to
represent or speak for such interests.

L.       Community-driven development needs knowledge and technical assistance

"Demand-oriented", community driven development became almost an objective in itself after project
reformulation. Without a doubt there is great value in community organization, social capital and better
quality of life. But as part of a larger project, PAIC/PADIC needed to keep the overall and specific
objectives in mind, which called for introducing new, sustainable ways to use natural resources, alternative
farming systems, agro-forestry, sustainable forest management, etc. Both projects were unsuccessful in this
regard, before and after reformulation. There is thus a potential ­ and, in many cases, an actual ­ trade-off
between decentralized, demand-driven development strategies and those that are and spatially and
operationally differentiated (i.e., based on actual natural resource potentials and constraints and on actual
capacity to implement specific actions or activities).

In both projects, a fundamental ingredient was missing: relevant knowledge. The design of PAIC/PADIC
assumed that such knowledge was available and useable; but that was largely not the case. Training was
given to community leaders, NGOs and potential "community consultants" in the rules and procedures, but
not in the substance, technologies, models and opportunities that could be used by the communities. NGO
enthusiasm and engagement for the poor and the environment did not substitute for lack of knowledge,
experience and professionalism.




                                                      - 48 -

It would have been useful to analyze and evaluate relevant knowledge available at the time, and package
and disseminate it to project staff, consultants and community leaders before approving "productive"
investments. (The problem was less severe with regard to infrastructure investments). Technical training
before sub-project preparation and qualified technical assistance during implementation would have helped
greatly.

M.       When reformulating a project, don't lose sight of the ultimate goals and don't throw out the
baby with the bathwater

After the Mid-Term Review, the Bank had three basic options: cancel the loans, accept the proposals on the
table, or propose an alternative. Happy about seeing a consensus emerge after great turbulence, the Bank
made no alternative proposal and agreed readily to the results of the MTR, but in the process downplayed
the ultimate sectoral and spatial goals of the project (see Section 3.2). PAIC/PADIC was unlikely do much
for research, extension, credit and more intensive land use, which were once deemed strategically
important. While it was correct that the original approach chosen to provide these services did not work, no
alternative ways were proposed to provide them and the entire component was dropped without
replacement. Any chance to do achieve institutional reform was also lost. The baby went out with the
bathwater.

N.        Field offices may not always see the forest for the trees

The Cuiabá field office has provided good services to the two clients in Mato Grosso and Rondonia, as was
amply acknowledged in the final evaluations and workshops. Yet an overloaded field office (with only one
HQ staff) tends to have difficulties of seeing the forest for the trees. Supervision from Washington was less
appreciated by clients, but could have been more strategic and involved. A combination of more removed,
but highly and continuously attentive supervision from Washington or Brasilia with client support by a
field office might help to maintain a strategic, arms-length view of a large project. Also, tough decisions are
often easier made from a distance (though some were indeed made up close). Higher than average budgets,
however, are required for more intensive field and headquarter-based supervision, but this may be fully
justified in light of the complexities and risks associated with certain projects such as those under review.

O.       Balancing federal fiscal constraints with investment needs should be a priority in the Bank's
and Borrowers Agenda
Where traditional investment loans are made to the federal government, containment of federal budget
expenditures invariably affects projects funded from a loan. Implementation periods stretched to 150-200%
of the original are inefficient and costly to the Borrower, states, beneficiaries and the Bank. The Bank and
the Borrower should make this issue a top priority on their agenda and continuously monitor project
implementation performance in the light of fiscal constraints. This would allow revisions, when necessary,
of priority investments and lead to necessary adjustments to the portfolio (e.g. amendments, partial
cancellations, etc) to balance both fiscal and investment needs.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Neither Borrower nor implementing agency provided comments to this report.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                      - 49 -

n/a

10. Additional Information




                              - 50 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A                                                                           N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Second Aproximation of Agro-ecological     26,800,000 ha                      26,800,000 ha
zoning
Demarcation, delimitation and cadastral    41,300,000 ha                      33,100,000 ha
issuance of titles
Issuance of land titles                    18,000 families                    17,300 families
Creation of Conservation Areas             4,847,000 ha                       1,560,000 ha
Demarcation of Indigenous Areas boundaries 1630 km                            349 km
Water supply house linkages                9700 houses                        3760 houses
State road rehabilitation                  26 000 km                          3965 km
State road paving                          124 km                             580 km
Community Driven Projects                  -                                  228 projects

1End of project




                                                           - 51 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million      US$ million
Agro-Ecological Zoning and Land Tenure Regularization          40.00             56.40               14
Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural               54.40             42.60            19.04
Resources
Agro-Forestry Development and Support Services                 70.20             35.60            24.57
Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services                     65.40             74.20            22.89
Project Administration and Technical Cooperation               11.90             32.30             4.17
Community Initiative Support Program (PADIC)*                   0.00             17.36

Total Baseline Cost                                          241.90             258.46
 Physical Contingencies                                        15.20                               5.32
 Price Contingencies                                           28.60                              10.01
                          Total Project Costs                285.70             258.46
                   Total Financing Required                  285.70             258.46
* The Community Initiative Support Program component was added after the Mid Term Review and used
the remaining resources from the Agro-Forestry Development and Support Services and Socio-Economic
Infrastructure and Services components which were extinct.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                 2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                           17.60           41.50           6.00             0.00         65.10
                                  (12.70)         (29.90)         (4.30)           (0.00)       (46.90)
2. Goods                            9.00           20.50           4.20             0.50         34.20
                                   (6.50)         (14.80)         (3.00)           (0.00)       (24.30)
3. Services                        17.30           12.80           1.00             0.00         31.10
                                  (17.30)         (12.40)         (0.70)           (0.00)       (30.40)
4. Technical Assistance,            0.00            0.00          22.20             0.00         22.20
Training and Studies
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)         (22.20)          (0.00)       (22.20)
5. Salaries, Benefits and           0.00            0.00          99.00             0.00         99.00
Other Operating Costs              (0.00)          (0.00)         (56.60)          (0.00)       (56.60)
6. Other Operating Costs            0.00            0.00          34.10             0.00         34.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)         (24.60)          (0.00)       (24.60)
   Total                           43.90           74.80          166.50            0.50        285.70
                                  (36.50)         (57.10)        (111.40)          (0.00)      (205.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                  Other



                                                - 52 -

   1. Works                                15.52             42.79              0.00             0.00             58.30
                                          (1.09)            (12.63)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (13.72)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                             2.25               0.00             52.22             0.00             54.47
                                          (2.23)             (0.00)           (23.10)            (0.00)           (25.33)
   4. Technical Assistance,                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Training and Studies
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Salaries, Benefits and               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Other Operating Costs                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Other Operating Costs                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               17.77             42.79             52.22             0.00             112.78
                                          (3.32)            (12.63)           (23.10)            (0.00)           (39.05)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Agro-Ecological Zoning        46.80         0.90                    48.50         5.92                  103.6    657.8
and Land Tenure
Regularization
Management, Protection        59.50         3.90                    32.72         9.43                  55.0     241.8
and Monitoring of Natural
Resources
Agro-Forestry                 47.70        32.80                    15.30         19.95                 32.1      60.8
Development and Support
Services
Socio-Economic                41.10        30.20                    35.91         35.90                 87.4     118.9
Infrastructure and Services
Project Administration         5.00         2.40                     8.83         4.33                  176.6    180.4
State
Project Administration         1.90         0.80                                                         0.0      0.0
Federal
Technical Cooperation          3.00         0.20                    15.82         0.00                  527.3     0.0




                                                          - 53 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No analysis was done. The SAR included some C/B analysis of agricultural models, but that component
was discontinued at mid-term, and no data are avaible for such analysis.




                                                  - 54 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              -                         -    -

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              -                         -    -

 Supervision

              10/07/1993                7    ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);                    2               2
                                             FIELD REP. (1); ECOLOGIST
                                             (1); LAND REGUL. SPEC. (1);
                                             LAND ZONING SPEC. (1);
                                             TASK MGR (1); ENV.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              08/12/1994                7    ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);                    U               S
                                             FIELD REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                             ECOLOGIST (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             LAND REGULARIZATION SP
                                             (1); AGRO-FORESTRY (1)
              04/11/1995                7    FIELD REPRESENTATIVE (1);              U               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             ECOLOGIST (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              06/20/1999                1    ECONOMIST (1)                          U               S
              03/15/2000                3    ECONOMIST, TASK MANAGE                 U               U
                                             (1); CONS.
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                             ROAD ENGIEER (1)
              11/16/2000                2    ECONOMIST, TEAM LEADER                 U               U
                                             (1); ROAD ENGENEER (1)
              11/09/2001                6    TTL, Mission Leader (1);               S               U
                                             Ex-TTL, Agr Dev Spclst (1);
                                             Mission Support (1); Env.
                                             Specialist (1); Road Engineer (1);
                                             Zoning Specialist (1)
              05/10/2002                6    MISSION LEADER (1);                    U               U
                                             ECONOMIST/EX-TTL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             ROAD ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPECIAL
                                             (1); ZONING SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR



                                              - 55 -

               02/15/2003             5     TTL(1); Ex-TTL/ Agric.             U    U
                                            Dev. Spec. (1); Community
                                            Dev. Spec (1); Econ/Rural
                                            Dev. Spec. (1);Operations
                                            Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               66                        169.82
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    44                         72.78
  Supervision                            433                       1,385.75
  ICR                                      22                         90.00
  Total                                  785                       1,718.34




                                            - 56 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Community organizatìon, social capital
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Civil society organization and strengthening




                                                    - 57 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 58 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



Bartholo Jr. R.S. Bursztyn. Amazônia Sustentável ­ Uma estratégia de desenvolvimento para Rondônia
2020. M . Porto Velho 1999. (Projeto ÚMIDAS).

Browder, J. O. Conservation and Development Projects in the Brazilian Amazon: Lessons from the
Community Initiative Program in Rondonia, Environmental Management Vol. 29, No. 6, pp. 750­762.

Bursztyn, M. coord. (1996). "PLANAFLORO: Avaliação de Meio Termo". Brasilia.

Bursztyn, M. coord. (1996). "PRODEAGRO- Avaliação de Meio Termo". Brasilia.

Conceição, P. H. Z. (2003). "Contribuições para o ICR, Projeto 3444-BR ­ PLANAFLORO": 21 pages.
Brasilia.

Conceição, P. H. Z. (2003). "Contribuições para o ICR, Projeto 3492-BR ­ PRODEAGRO": 18 pages.
Brasilia.

Cowell, D. Implementation Completion Evaluation of Zoning Component of the Rondônia Natural
Resources Management Project - PLANAFLORO, and the Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management
Project - PRODEAGRO. Consultant's report. 34 pages.

Governo do Estado de Mato Grosso- SEPLAN (2002). "Modelo, Estrutura, Ações e Resultados do
PRODEAGRO". Cuiabá. (Independent Evaluation Report).

Governo do Estado de Mato Grosso- SEPLAN (2002). "Síntese dos Relatórios Parciais e Final".
Cuiabá. (Independent Evaluation Report).

Governo do Estado de Rondônia- SEPLAD (2003). "Relatório de Avaliação Final do PLANAFLORO".
(Independent Evaluation Report) Porto Velho.

Irving, M. Consultants report on the Environmental Components of the Rondonia Natural Resources
Management Projetc. March, 2003. 11 pages.

Mahar, D. Land-Use Zoning in Rondonia and Mato Grosso: What Are the Lessons Learned? Consultant's
report. 2002.

Margulis, S. The Logic Of Deforestation Of The Brazilian Amazon, The World Bank, June 2003.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). "PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS
-PAIC: Prestação de Contas". Porto Velho.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS -PAIC:
Instruções Técnicas. Porto Velho.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS -PAIC:



                                                - 59 -

Roteiro e Instruções para Elaboração de Projetos. Porto Velho.

PNUD/PLANAFLORO, (2002). Avaliação Final do PLANAFLORO. Porto Velho. Explain

Rezende, M.L. Consultants report on the Çommunity Driven Development Components of the Rondonia
and Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Projetc. March, 2003. 11 pages.

Sant'Ana, M.-M. M. "PLANAFLORO: Orientações conceituais e técnicas para a implantação do Sistema
de Monitoria e Avaliação".

Schneider, Robert R. (August 1995), Government and Economy on the Amazon Frontier, World Bank,
Environment Paper Number 11

World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department (April 30, 1992), World Bank Approaches to the
Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Projects: Volume V: The POLONOROESTE Program
(Report No. 10039)

World Bank (May 21, 1992), Brazil: An Analysis of Environmental Problems in the Amazon (Report No.
9104-BR)

World Bank (1992). Staff Appraisal Report - Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project, Report.
No. 8073-BR.

World Bank (1992). Staff Appraisal Report - Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project,
Report. No.10402-BR.

World Bank (1992). Loan Agreement- (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project) - Loan
Number. 3444-BR.

World Bank (1992). Project Agreement- (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project) ­ Loan
Number 3444-BR.

World Bank (1992). Project Agreement- (Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project) ­ Loan
Number 3492-BR.

World Bank (1997). Office Memorandum- Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project

(PLANAFLORO -Loan 3444-BR): Amendment to the Loan Agreement.

World Bank (1997). "Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project (PLANAFLORO project), (Loan
3444-BR): Proposed Amendment to Loan "      Agreement."

 World Bank (1998). "Memo to MOF- ref: Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project ( Loan
                 Number 3492-BR) - Amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements."




                                                  - 60 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop

The workshop included personnel from implementing agencies, and representatives of civil society
organizations and the private sector. The most prominent points raised during the workshop were:

-  At project start, the project objective was not clear to the project staff and implementing agencies, nor
   to stakeholders. At the end of the project, the objective is clear to government and a few sectors of the
   society, but still unclear to several stakeholders.

-  Government commitment existed, however the government lacked the know-how to implement the
   project; the State was not organized to manage the project; the project didn't provide sufficient training
   and capacity building for implementation.

-  There was lack of understanding of salient themes of the project, especially "sustainable development".

-  The project lacked support from other parts of government (agencies, decision-makers on public
   investments, etc.); the project lacked integration; implementation of the components was fragmented.

-  The project's greatest benefits consist in the development of scientific knowledge and techniques; but
   dissemination to end users still lacks.

-  Zoning should have been treated as strategic for all activities, not just agriculture;

-  Zoning is still not implemented, and not known by the society as a whole;

-  The project should have provided the means to identify and disseminate technologies for sustainable
   development.

-  The project was well publicized, but too ambitious, which made difficult its understanding.

-  Participation was not well developed.




                                                    - 61 -

- 62 -

