Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10402-BR   Type: (SAR)                 Report No. 10402-BR
CO7 ROLO, L/ X31820 / I6 005/ LAlAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1992
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of September 30, 1991) 1/
Currency Unit            =            Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$ 550                  -            US$1.00
Cr$ 1.00                 =            US$0.0018
Cr$ 1 Million            =            US$1,818.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
State of Mato Grosso    =             January 1 to December 31
Project                  =            January 1 to June 30
1/    Appraisal mission



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BRAZ ;
MATQ GROSSO  AURA  RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BEMAT           Banco do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Bank of Mato Grosso)
CASEMAT         Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Warehouse and Silo Company)
CEAP            Conselho Estadual para Administragao de Projetos
(State Council for Project Administration)
CEMAT           Centrais ElJtricas Matogrossonses, S.A.
(Electricity Company of Mato Grosso)
CODEMAT         Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Development Company)
CONDEMA         Conselhos Municipais de Defesa do Meio Ambiente
(Municipal Councils for Environmental Defense)
CONSRMA         Conselho Estadual do Meio Ambiente
(State Council for the Environment)
DTN             Departamento do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Department, Federal Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning)
EMPAER          Empresa Matogrossense de Pesquisa, AssistOncia e Extensao
Rural, S.A.
(State Research, Technical Assistance and Extension
Enterprise)
FEMA            Fundaglo Estadual do Meio Ambiente
(State Foundation for the Environment)
FUNAI           FundagAo Nacional do fndio
(National Indian Foundation)
FUNDAGRO        Fundo de Desenvolvimento Agroambiental de Mato Grosso
(Mato Grosso State Agricultural Credit Fund)
IBAMA           Instituto Brasileiro do MLio Ambiente e dos Recursos  Naturais
Renov&veis
(Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ICB            Licitaqao Internacional
(International Competitive Bidding)
ICM            Imposto Sobre a Circulaq&o de Mercadorias
(Federal Sales Tax)
INCRA          Instituto Nacional de Colonizagao e Reforma Agr&ria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INDEA          Instituto de Defesa Agropecuaria
(Institute for Agricultural Protection)
INTERMAT       Inatituto de Terras de Mato Grosso
(Mato Grosso State Land Institute)
LCB            Licitagao Local
(Local Competitive Bidding)
NGO            Organismos N&o-Governamentais
(Non-Governmental Organizations)
PCU            Gergncia Estadual do Projeto
(Project Coordination Unit)
PMF-MT         Policia Militar Florestal de Mato Grosso
(Forest Military Police of Mato Grosso)
POLONOROESTE   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil)
SANEMAT        Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Mato Grosso
(Mato Groeso State Sanitation and Sewerage Company)
SDR-PR         Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Regional da Presid&ncia da
Repdblica
(Secretariat of Regional Development of the Borrower's
Presidency)
SEAAF          Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e Assuntos Fundi&rios
(Mato Grosso State Secretariat for Agriculture and Land
Affairs)
SEC-MT         Secretaria de Estado da Educagao e Cultura
(Mato Grosso State Secretariat for Education and Culture)
SEMA-NT        Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente
(Mato Grosso State Secretariat for the Environment)
SEPLAN-MT      Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordenaglo Geral
(Mato Grosso State Secretariat for Planning and Coordination)
SES-MT         Secretaria de Estado da Saade
(Mato Grosso State Secretariat for Health)



SUDAM          Superintend&ncia de Desenvolvimentc da Amaz8nia
(Superi.ntendency for the Development of the Amazon)
UCAC           Unidade Central de Apoio A ComercializagAo
(Central Marketing Support Unit)
UAPT           Unidade de Armazenagem, Processamento e Transformaglo
(Storage, Processing and Transformation Unit)



BRAZIL
MATO GR3SSQ NATURAL RESQURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY       . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .       1
II. AGRICULTURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO    4
Agricultural and Environmental Policies  .   . . .  . . .    . .      4
Experience with PLut Bank Lending  ... .  .   .  . . ...     . . . . .   .    5
The State of Mato Groseo .                                            6
Main Lessons Learned Under POLONOROESTE  .  . .        '.    .        8. . . a
III. THE PROJECT  .                 . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . .  .    O
Project Objectives . ....  10
Environmental Policy Framework .. ....... . . . . ..  .  .   11
Agro-scological Zoning .-ecolo.gic.  .i   g...........    12
Project Components ............ . .  ........ . ...    13
A. Agro-Ecological Zonin7j and Land Tenure Regularization  . . .  14
B. Management, Protectir  Ar Monitoring of Natural Resources    15
C. Agro-Forestry Develc.  ,t ......  .            .    .. .....   20
D. Socio-Economic Infras-ructure and Services   . . . . . .  .    .  23
E. Project Administration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Project Organizati.on   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .   .   26
Project Costs  ....  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .   30
Financing Pia n ..             . ..... . . . . . . ....... .  30
Procurement  ..        . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   31
Disbursements and Special Account .'.. . . . . . .      .......    33
Project Benefits and Justification . .   .......  .   . . . . .  34
Project Risks  . . . . . . . .. .  .  .  .    . . . .   .# . . . . . . .  36
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . .  38
The project is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited
Brazil from September 30 to October 22, 1991. The mission was comprised of
Messrs. L. Coirolo (Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist), F. Vita
(Economist, FAO/CP), J. Wiles (Envirormentalist, Consultant, World Wildlife
Fund), P. Hazelton (Environmentalist), J. Dubois and J. Rezende (Forestry,
Consultants), J. Landers (Tropical Agriculture Specialist, Consultant), J.
McKenna (Resource Planning Specialist), J. Barbosa (Land Titling Specialist),
E. Velez-Koppel (Credit and Marketing Specialist, Consultant), D. Gross
(Anthropologist), V. Bellia (Transport Specialist, Consultant), A. Rabelo
(Environmental Protection Specialist, Consultant), M. Tabanez (Environmental
Protection Enforcement Specialist, Consultant), M. de Lima (Small-scale Mining
Specialist, Consultant), and V. Baladao (Consultant, from the Center for
Indigenous Work - KOO).



- i$ -
bBLE OF CONTENTS (Continiued)
Page 2
ANXES:
Annex 1: Matrix of Main Environumental Policy Issues, Measures and Actions 42
Annex 2:  Environmental Management, Protection and Monitoring   . . . . .  44
Anngx 3s  Agro-Forestry Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  .   .    50
annex 4:  Support to Indigenous Communities   . . .  .  . . .   . . . . .  53
Annex S: Farm Models and Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  59
Annex 6: Table 6.1: Estimated Project Costs by Component   . .    . . .  64
Table 6.2: Annual Phasing of Copts by Components,
including Contingencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  65
Table 6.3: Summary Accounts by Project Component  . . . . . . .  66
Table 6.4: Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements   . . . . .  67
Table 6.5: Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
Table 6.6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds  . . . . . . .  . . . .  69
Table 6.7: Implementation Schedule: Estimated Annual
Contractual and Other Payments   . . . . . . . . . .  70
Annex 7:  Table 7.1: List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies   . . .  71
Table 7.2: Project Physical Targets and Schedule of
Implementation   .            . . . . . . . . . . .  72
Chart:    Project Organizational Chart   . . . . . . . . . . .  76
Annex 8:  Project Supervision   .......    . . . . . . . . . ..   . .. 77
Annex 9: Documents Available in Project File   . .  . . . . . . . .  .  80
Map;     IBRD 23466



MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
4orrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Executina Agenciest Secretariat of Regional Development of the Presidency of the
Republic/Secretariat of Planning of Mato Grosso
Amount:              US$205.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
8eneficiaries:       Some 16,000 Amerindians living in 38 existing reserves would
benefit directly from the demarcation and protection activities
of the project. About 18,000 smallholders would have their
land titles regularized. Some 32,100 low-income smallholder
families in those areas which are suitable for sustainable
agriculture would benefit directly from the strengthening of
agricultural services. Much of the rural community in those
same areas would also benefit from improved socio-economic
infrastructure and services. Finally, current and future
generations of Mato Grosso would benefit from actions taken to
arrest deforestation and degradation of the state's natural
resource base and to conserve biogenetic diversity.
L_.,ect Objectives  The principal objective of the proposed project would
and Description:    be to implement an improved approach to natural resource
management, conservation and development in the State of Mato
Grosso. The project would assist the Government to:
(a) support changes in policies, regulations, and investment
programs, to provide a coherent incentives framework for the
sustainable development of Mato Grosso; (b) guarantee
conservation of the rich biodiversity of the state, while
creating the basis for sustainable utilization of its renewable
natural resources for the direct economic benefit of the local
population; (c) develop integrated agro-forestry farming
systems in areas suitable for permanent agriculture; and
(d) consolidate the technical operational capacity of state
institutions, particularly those responsible for management of
natural resources support services, the protection and
management of forests and indigenous reserves, and agricultural
services. The project, to be implemented over a five-year
period, would support agro-ecological zoning and land tenure
regularization; priority environmental management, protection
and monitoring activities; agro-forestry development;
socio-economic infrastructure and services; and project
administration and technical cooperation.



-2-
Project BenefLts:   The main impact of the project would be a significant reduction
ln the rate of destruction of Mato Grosso's remaining natural
rain forest, and effectlve conservation of bLodiversity and
protection of the envlronment and indlgenous communlties
rights. Although techniques for quantifying environmental
benefits are still quite rudlmentary, the galns from
preservation of the forest cover of the State would be
sLgnificant. In addition, the consolidation and strengthenlng
of agriculture in areas with sustainable agricultural potential
would generate incremental net revenues of about US$35.0
million per year at full development. Other important project
beneflts lnclude poverty alleviation and improvement of the
health and well-being of beneficiaries.
Proiect RLsks:       In the past, lnadequate technical knowledge, an unsuitable
policy framework and weak institutions led to occupation of
lands with little sustainable development potential, rapid
deforestation and other forms of natural resource depletion in
Mato Grosso. The availability of agro-ecological zoning, and
the Government's commitment to comply with the zoning
recommendations in its investment programming, will reduce the
risk of continued occupation of fragile areas. The various
policy and regulatory reforms recently adopted, and others
being undertaken in connection with this project, should
address the basic incentives issues which have also encouraged
resource degradation in the State. To help miniiaize the risk
that unforeseeable factors (e.g., unexpected weather or
economic problems in other parts of Brazil that could once
again spark heavy migration to the Northwest) might undermine
the impact of the project-related environmental policy reforms
and investments, appropriate monitoring and evaluation
arrangements would be put in place at project start-up. In
this regard, the State's field information system would be
strengthened by the use of satellite imagery to permit the
immediate detection of forest burning and other forms of
invasion. Also, an independent evaluation committee, including
NGO representatives, would convene annually to review progress
and recommend necessary refinements of project strategy, and
joint Government-Bank implementation reviews would be
undertaken yearly. Finally, to address the risk that Brazil's
fiscal problems might threaten the planned strengthening of the
project's relatively young environmental, land and agro-
forestry institutions, the State would present during
negotiations an acceptable strategy to ensure that these
agencies would be able to recruit and retain qualified
technical and managerial staff. The project also includes
comprehensive technical assistance and staff training to
support institutional development, and progress would be
monitored closely by the Government and the Bank throughout the
life of the project.



ESTIMATED PROIECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLMN
Loam             moe                 Totld
(USS Million)
Esdmated Prolect Costs
A. A4ro-Ecolozdcal Zoning and Land Tenure Renularizatlon  27.4       12.6               40.0
B. Management. Protection and Monitorina of
Natural Resources                                 47.9              6.5                S4.4
C. Agro-Forestry Develonment and Suvnott Services   60.4              9.8               70.2
D. Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services      48.7              16.7               65.4
E. Pro*ect Administration and Technical Cooneraton  11.4              O.S                11.9
Total Baseline Costs                     19Sa8              46.1              241.9
-Physical contingencies                   10.8               4.4               IS.2
-Price contingencies                      23.8               4.8               28.6
Total Proiect Costs                      23                 S5.3              285.
Financing Plan
Mato Grosso State Government              40.0               -                 40.0
Federal Goverment                         40.7               -                40.71/
IBRD                                     149.7              SS.3              205.0
Total                                                       SS.3              28S.7
Estimated Disburaements
Bank FY:        1993         1994          1                         1997         1998
Cam USS million)
Annual         40.02/        34.0         S8.0         41.0          27.0          5.0
Cumulative     40.0          74.0         132.0       173.0         200.0       205.0
Rate of Retum: N.A.
Maps: IBRD No. 23466
I/ Including US$11.7 million in locai taxes.
21 Including initial deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account, and USS20.5 million of retroactive financing.



-4-
II.  AGRICULT?RAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES 2D THE STATE OF MATO GROSSQ
Agricultural acnd Environmental Policies
2.01        Government policies have had an important impact on the
performance of the agricultural sector. Probably the most importint action in
this regard was Brazil's decision in the postwar era to embark on an import
substitution-led industrialization strategy.  This strategy was pursued
through a variety of measures, including an overvalued currency, restrictive
trade policies, and from time to time, outright bans and quotas on
agricultural exports. The effect was to implicitly tax agriculture. To
partially compensate for this, subsidized r'tral credit was introduced. This
created further distortions a'- ;nefitted mainly larger producers. But the
era of massive government in    intion in agriculture in Brazil is now over.
The Government initiated reforms of the last administration have been extended
and deepened under ':he present administration. The Bank has supported these
reforms under the Credit and Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR). With
respect to rural credit, the Government moved towards reducing the
availability of official (subsidized) credit and relying on private finance at
market interest rates.  A Bank loan for the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2971-BR) is assisting the Government to achieve this objective.
2.02        While the Government policy agenda during the 1980s has been
dominated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, policies with respect to
agriculture and the environment were not neglected. The government assigned a
high priority to protecting the environment and became aware of the effect
that some agricultural policies were having on the environment. Changing
policies to place agriculture on a more market - driven basis is having a
positive effect on the environment, although farmers and the farming community
are bearing the brunt of these changes. Farmers, faced witn increasing
production costs and fallirg commodity prices, have begun to seek more cost-
effective technologies and to intensify the use of existing farm land and
rural infrastructure. This is already evident in the country's major
agricultural areas in the South and Southeast. There is growing interest in
irrigation, soil conservation, environmental protection, livestock disease
control, more efficient marketing and storage and more widespread application
of the results of agricultural research. This, along with the Government
initietives to withdraw various fiscal incentives that encouraged expansion
into areas which are less suitable from an agro-ecological standpoint,
suggests that the growth of the land frontier may be coming to a close.
Instead, agricultural development in the future is expected to derive
increasingly from more land-intensive production methods.
2.03        As a result of the increased environmental awareness and a growing
commitment to confront environmental issues at the federal level, the
government undertook several important initiatives on the environment. Among
these ares (a) the new national constitution, which was adopted in October
1988, incorporates an advanced chapter on the environment; (b) also in October
1988, the Government launched a special program (Nossa Natureza), which



included emergency measures to protect the Amazon region and other endangered
ecosystems in the country; (c) the Government partially suspended the special
fiscal incentive programs which had directly promoted extensive ranching and
deforestation in the Amazon; and (d) a National Institute for the Environment
(IBAMA) was created in February 1989 to help coordinate environmental
protection sttivities, aid an Environmental Secretariat was established,
headed by an internationally prominent environmentalist reporting directly to
the President of the Republic.
2.04        Along with the strengthened regulations, and more neutral
agricultural incentives the Government has also prepared several ma4-r
environmentally oriented investment programs for Bank financing, including the
National Environmental Project, a Rond8nia Natural Resources Management
Project and the proposed Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Project.
Other environmental projects, aimed at controlling industrial and urban
pollution, are also under preparation. Finally, the Government has also
recently prepared a comprehensive pilot program to conserve the Amazon rain
forest, which will be supported by a group of industrialized countries and
administered by the Bank.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.05        As of March 31, 1992, the Bank had made 58 loans, totalling
US$5,179.6 million (net of cancellationa), for agricultural and rural
development and environmental protection in Brazil. These loans include: one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one agricultural
credit loan for US$300.0 million; two supplemental loans for US$30.3 million
under the 1983 Special Action Program for Brazil; four loans for US$785.8
million for agro-industries; three for US$111.5 million for livestock,
including an animal disease control project of US$51.0 million; one for
US$18.2 million for grain storage; three for US$147.0 million for agricultural
research; two for US$255.0 million for agricultural extension; one for
US$100.0 million for land tenure improvements; one of US$495.0 million for
credit and marketing reform; one for US$48.5 million for forestry development;
one for US$196.0 million f': the irrigation subsector; one for US$117.0
million for a national environmental project; one for US$167.0 million for a
natural resource management project; and 35, totalling US$2,103.6 million, for
various settlement, irrigation, land management and rural development projects
in the Northeast, in Minas Gerais (the Southeast), Parana (the South), and in
the North and Northwest.
2.06        With regard to the Northwest Region, the POLONOROBSTE Program
(para. 2.12) has been financed by five Bank loans, including three which
supported primarily the agricultural, rural development and environmental
objectives of the Program. The Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project, known as Northwest I (Loan .060-BR, of US$67.0 million,
approved in 1981), was designed to upgrade existing agricultural settlements
in central Rond8nia. The Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project-Northwest II (Loan 2116-BR, of US$26.4 million, approved in
1982) financed similar activities in Mato Grosso. The flew Settlements



- 6 -
Project-Northwest III (Loan 2353-BR, of US$65.2 million, approved in 1983)
supported colonization of unoccupied lands in Rond8nia. In addition, a
Northwest Health Project (Loan 2061-BR, of US$13.0 million, approved in 1981)
was designed to improve and maintain health conditions in the settlement areas
of Rond8nia and Mato Grosso, and a Northwest Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR, of
US$240.0 million, approved in 1981) helped to finance the paving of Federal
highway BR-364 between Cuiab& and Porto Velho and the construction of feeder
roads to that highway. In 1983, under the Special Action Program (SAP) for
Brazil, the Bank also approved US$22.8 million of supplemental financing for
the Northwest I Project. Project Completion Reports have been prepared for
all but the last agricultural project (Loan 2353-BR), for which the loan was
closed on March 31, 1992. Experience under the agricultural operations in
Mato Grosso is discussed in paras. 2.12 - 2.15.
The State of Mato Grosso
2.07        Overview.  Mato Grosso is a frontier state encompassing 18% of the
Amazon Basin of Brazil. It is Brazil's third largest state, with an area of
901,000 km2, equivalent to the combined size of France and Italy.  Mato Grosso
is a transition area between the cerrados (savannahs) to the east and south,
which cover some 33% of its territory, and humid tropical jungles to the west
and south which cover some 57%. The remaining 10% is part of the largest
wetland in South America, the Pantanal. Migration, mainly from the
south/southieast, caused annual population increases of about 6.5% during
1970-80 and 7% (4% in the south, 13% in the environmentally fragile north)
between 1980-89, bringing the total state population to a currently estimated
2.1 million inhabitants.
2.08        Agriculture, the most important sector in the State economy, grew
substantially during the last 10 years. This was accompanied by extensive
deforestation, with forested areas (low and sparse, transition and Amazonian
forest) declining from 55% of the State area in 1970 to 25% in 1989, and soil
erosion/siltation and contamination of the Pantanal watershed from
ferti" zer/pesticides and mercury (from mining). Inadequate knowledge of the
State's natural resource base, increased migration, limited institutional
capability to direct and enforce desired land use patterns, and the prevailing
regulatory framework all contributed to the State's inability to support
viable smallholder settlements using suitable tgricultural and soil
conservation practices in the southern areas where the best soils are
concentrated. Hence, livestock development flourished in the environmentally
fragile west, and slash and burn cultivation by subsistence farmers spread
into the Amazonian areas of the north.
2.09        Land Tenure, Farm Size and Land Use.  The land tenure situation in
Mato Grosso is complex, reflecting the various stages of migration over the
last 15-20 years. In 1960, according to census data, the state had about
12,900 farms which occupied an aggregate area of 7.8 million ha. By 1970
these had grown to about 45,000 farms and 17.3 million ha. Owing to the
strong colonization during 1970-80, the number of farms increased sharply to
around 78,300 by 1990, representing a total occupied area of about 38 million



ha, or 43% of the state. However, land data, apart from revealing some major
inconsistencies and overlaps, also indicate large areas which have conflicts
of ownership. Based on information from the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and
Development (MIRAD/INCRA), approximately 95.0 million ha (i.e., equivalent to
104% of the state) were occupied and registered in 1987, of which about 14.5
million ha (15%) were occupied without legal title (posseirosl.
2.10        According to the Hato Grosso State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Enterprise (EMATER-MT), there are presently about 73,300 small
farmers in Mato Grosso with less than 200 ha. The parts of the State which
have been identified as being suitable for some agricultural activities (para.
3.06) include about 64 municipalities and contain some 48,780 farmers.
Average farm size in these areas is about 47 ha, of which about 13 ha are
usually cultivated: 9 ha are generally under rice, maize and beans, and 4 ha
are under coffee or bananas. The remaining area is left under natural pasture
(9 ha) or secondary forest and fallow land (caooeira).
2.11        Agricultural Development.  Agriculture is the dominant productive
sector in Hato Grosso. It employs about 37% of the labor force, followed by
services (32%), industry (16%) and commerce (15%). The agricultural sector
continued to develop rapidly during the period 1980-89, with agricultural GDP
growing by approximately 10% per year to about US$500.0 million in 1989. The
rapid development was mainly due to increases in planted areas of crops such
as soybeans, maize, cassava, cotton and sugar cane, and the axpansion of the
livestock sub6ector from 5.2 million head in 1980 to 8.0 million head in 1989.
The most important crops in 1989/90 were soya (1.6 million ha), rice (366,600
ha) and maize (273,600 ha). The area planted to perennial crops, especially
coffee and rubber, increased to a total of about 130,000 ha in 1989/90.
Yields of food crops in Mato Grosso are comparable to the overall averages for
Brazil, although in most parts of the state they are sustainable only with
high levels of inputs. From 1980 to 1990, there has been a substantial
increase in the production of annual crops, primarily through slash and burn
cultivation supported by continued forest cutting. Perennial crops such as
coffee and banana have been grown for some time; rubber and cocoa have been
introduced only recently and are just coming into production. High yielding
clones of rubber and cocoa are being planted under improved cultural practices
using fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, and their production
prospects appear promising.
2.12        Experience of POLONOROESTE.  In 1980, in recognition of the
growing socioeconomic problems caused by accelerating migration, the Brazilian
Government launched a program of major investments in the northwest
agricultural frontier areas of Rondonia and Mato Grosso. The POLONOROESTE
aimed to absorb the human influx in an orderly and sustainable manner. The
centerpiece of the program was the completion and asphalting of the main
federal highway in the northwest region (BR-364) between Cuiaba and Porto
Velho and the construction of feeder roads. The strategy of POLONOROESTE was
to steer migrants away from the extensive areas which were ecologically
fragile and/or occupied by indigenous groups. Non-exploitative systems of
agricultural and forest production were to be promoted, with a view to



- 8 -
achieving permanent land occupation by the new settlers and reversing the
trend of felling the tropical forest and abandoning it to low grade pasture or
scrub after only a few seasons of food cropping.  The technical strategy was
based on support for permanent smallholder agriculture or, farms of adequate
size to generate reasonable annual incomes.
2.13        POLONOROESTE, financed by the Federal Government and the Bank, was
coordinated by the Federal Government and executed by Federal and state-level
institutions. Implementation encountered many technical, institutional and
financial difficulties, and in its initial phase POLONOROESTE seemed to be
failing in many respects. Only pavement of the BR-364 highway proceeded on
schedule, while agricultural and social support services, and environmental
and Amerindian protection programs fell behind. The program was widely
criticized for having a questionable effect on reversing the destructive
development patterns set in motion in the 1970s; the pace of occupation
accelerated and deforestation increased.
2.14        A mid-term review of POLONOROESTE in 1984 highlighted the
differences between the assumptions under which the program was planned and
those under which it was being implemented. The circumstances were largely
beyond the planners' control: inadequate and late disbursements of counterpart
funds because of the difficult fiscal situation in Brazil, the virtual
disappearance of investment credit needed to establish perennial crops,
ineffective integration of participating agencies, and unexpectedly high
migration, resulting in unchecked deforestation and continued encroachment
into unsuitable areas of marginal soil fertility.
2.15        The Mato Grosso Rural Development Project (Loan 2116-BR), which
closed in December 1988, also suffered from these shortcomings. According to
the Project Completion Report (PCR NO 9382 of February 26, 1991), the proj-_t
reached its physical targets for road construction and partially met the
targets for the storage component. However, there was no specific initiative
or project activity to contain deforestation. Implementation of the
agricultural development strategy was also disappointing, particularly with
regard to perennial crop cultivation, the creation of incremental agricultural
employment, and the improvement of incomes and living standards of project
beneficiaries. Nevertheless, the project did help to strengthen the social
infrastructure in the area and the institutional capacity of some of the
implementing agencies.
Main Lessons Learned Under POLONOROESTE
2.16        As outlined in the Project Completion Report, the following are
the main lessons learned in the course of implementing the Northwest II
Project in Mato Grosso, which have been taken into account in the design of
the present project:
(a)   The design of a project for a frontier area with a fragile natural
environment should be based on better technical information about
its sustainable development potential than that which was
available at the start of the project. Agro-ecological zoning



-9-
should be done in order to delineate clearly the agricultural
frontier, stabilize the land tenure eituation and demarcate areas
which are, or should be, reserves. Government commitment to
implement the agro-ecological zoning should be a condition eJi
aua non of future development projects in such areas.
(b)   When an important objective of a project is to alter land use
patterns in an area, a thorough analysis should be undertaken of
the policy and regulatory framework governing those patterns, to
determine what complementary actions may be needed, in addition to
investments in infrastructure and services, to stimulate the
desired results. The success or failure of a program like
POLONOROESTE rests not only on its technical quality and the
political support ic receives, but also on the overall policy
framework (e.g., land regulations and fiscal incentives) to
stimulate proper land use and natural resource protection.
Otherwise, investments made to protect the environment may be
underXiined by stronger incentives working in the opposite
direction.
(c)   When the success of the agricultural production objectives of a
project depends significantly on credit, a careful analysis needs
to be made with respect to credit availability, accessibility, and
the appropriateness of terms and conditions. In the event that
prevailing conditions are not suitable and not amenable to change
in the short term, the Bank should either make special provision
for credit in the project itself (only in exceptional
circumstances warranted by significant environmental or poverty
alleviation objectives) or it should not proceed with the project.
(d)   Project organization and management arrangements, especially when
a multitude of implementing agencies are involved, should provide
sufficient authority (including control over budgetary resources)
over implementation.
(e)   In projects with greater than normal risks, the elements of
institutional strengthening, training and technical assistance
should be carefully planned to directly address these risks.
2.17        In response to these lessons, in 1987-88 the Federal and state
Governments expressed their political commitment to implement an agro-
ecological exercise in Mato Grosso. Preliminary studies were completed with
FAO and UNDP aosistance, and a draft project proposal was prepared in 1989
with the assistance of the FAO/CP. The project would be based on agro-
ecological zoning, which is used to distinguish areas capable of sustainable
development from those which are without any known long-term agricultural
potential or which have special ecological (biological reserves and forestry
reserves) or social (Amerindian lands) significance and therefore need to be
protected.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
Oriain and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01        The Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil has three long-term
objectives to stimulate developmentt (a) private sector development and public
sector reform; (b) increasing the productivity and improving the living
conditions of the poorl and (c) protecting the environment and local
populations. The proposed project would contribute primarily to the third
objective, but would also help to strengthen public sector management and to
improve productivity and living conditions of poor rural smallholders.
Considerable experience has been gained under the earlier POLONOROESTE
projects, both in the Northwest Region in general and Mato Grosso in
particular, and new technical knowledge has been developed which today makes
it possible to identify and implement more appropriate strategies to
discourage environmentally destructive development patterns, and promote more
sustainable forms of land use. The Bankls participation in the proposed
project would be instrumental in helping Mato Grosso to prevent destruction of
its remaining northern tropical rain forest (about 225,000 km2), protect
critical watersheds of the Pantanal wetlands in the Southwest, and intensify
imallholder cultivation in those already deforested areas which have soils
suitable for permanent agriculture. It would also be important in helping to
reduce spontaneous migration to neighboring Rond8nia and other Amazon states.
3.02        A Bank identification mission in 1988 reviewed preparation
documents and reached preliminary agreement with the Federal and State
Governments on a development strategy based simultaneously on the need to
implement agro-ecological zoning and on the reform of land tenure and
environmental policies and regulations. Under the leadership of the Minister
of Interior, a series of meetings took place during 1988/89 among
representatives of concerned Federal Ministries and the State Government of
Mato Grosso. They identified and agreed on the principal elements of a new
framework to promote a transition from the prevailing extensive agricultural
development scenario, towards greater intensification of land use in selected
areas in accordance with the state's agro-ecological zoning. At the same
time, recognizing that such a strategy would not succeed in isolation, the
Government also proposed investments for: (i) environmental conservation,
management and enforcement in those areas of Mato Grosso that should be
protected or remain under forest cover; and (ii) a medium-term agro-forestry
development program and supporting infrastructure and services to encourage
sustainable productive activities in those areas where the population should
ideally remain concentrated. The project was appraised in September/October
1991 and loan negotiations took place in late April 1992.
Proiect Obiectives
3.03        The principal objective of the proposed project would be to
implement an improved strategy for natural resource management, conservation
and environmental protection and sustainable development in the State of Mato
Grosso. The project would assist the Government to:



- 11 -
(a)   support changes in policies, regulations and public investment
programs to provide a coherent incentives framework for the
sustainable development of Mato Grosso;
(b)   improve the knowledge of the natural resource base, by providing
more detailed data on land capability and land tenure to establish
criteria for improving land management and for biodiversity
protection in the various agro-ecological zones of the state;
(c)   reduce environmental degradation and ensure the long-term
preservation of the biodiversity of the State of Mato Grosso,
through the conservation of ecologically significant samples of
its territory;
(d)   protect and enforce the borders of all conservation units,
indigenous reserves, public forests and control and prevent
illegal deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;
(e)   develop sustainable agriculture in areas suitable for permanent
agriculture, promoting integrated agro-forestry farming systems,
and systems for sustainable forest management in areas which
should remain under natural forest cover;
(f)   support priority Investments in socio-economic infrastructure and
services in those areas where population should remain
concentrated, in order not to undermine the delicate ecological
balance of the state; and
(g)   strengthen the technical and operational capacity of the State
institutions responsible for the agro-ecological zoning, the
protection and management of the environment, and agricultural and
forestry support services.
Environmental Policy Framework
3.04        A suitable environmental policy and regulatory framework is
essential to ensure that future development of the State of Mato Grosso is
sustainable. In this regard, the Federal and State Governments have
undertaken a series of reforms over the past two years, the implementation of
which would be supported under the project. Additional complementary measures
would also be undertaken under the project. The relevant reforms and their
main features are summarized in Annex 1. They include:
(a) institutionalization of the State's agro-ecological zoning by State law;
(b) the adoption of suitable land regularization policies and practices,
including the elimination of deforestation as a criterion for obtaining land
title, and the adoption of new State land legislation; (c) elimination of
economic and fiscal incentives which encourage inefficient resource
allocation, non-sustainable private investment and environmental degradation;
(d) adoption of new State environmental legislation (to complement existing
Federal legislation), providing inter alia for improved forest protection and
control of mining activities; (e) adoption of suitrable policies concerning the



- 12 -
interdiction, delimitation, demarcation and protection of indigenous areas and
provision of key services to their inhabitants; and (f) revision of the
medium-term State and Federal investment programs for Mato Grosso, to reflect
land use capabilities and ecological considerations. Commitment to the policy
reforms, known as the Mato Grosso Environmental Action Plan (EAP), would be
reflected in a letter from the Borrower and the State to the Bank. The
contents of the letter were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
Compliance with the EAP would be monitored throughout the life of the project.
During negotiations, the Borrower and the State provided assurances that the
policy reforms under the Nato Grosso EAP would be enforced throughout the
duration of the project. They also provided assurances that their investment
programs for Mato Grosso, which currently take into account land use
capabilities, ecological and agro-ecological zoning considerations, would be,
at each annual updated thereof, maintained consistent with such considerations
and compatible with such zoning; and by September 30 each year during the
execution of the project they would furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, any intended update of such investment program for the forthcoming
year (para. 4.02 (a)).
Acro-ecoloaical Zonina
3.05        The State of Nato Grosso has experienced rapid and, generally
unplanned territorial occupation. Hence, agricultural activities are now
carried out in some areas where soil fertility is not suitable for sustainable
development; gold mining and forest exploitation are practically uncontrolled;
and only limited actions have been taken to conserve critical ecosystems.
Some agro-ecological zoning work was supported under the POLONOROESTE II
project, which included US$1.3 million to finance zoning of approximately of
55,000 km2 around Caceres and part of the Guapore Valley. In 1989, the
C&ndido Rondon Foundation completed a soil capability study of the entire
State. Based on this, the Foundation has since completed a first
approximation of a statewide socio-economic/agro-ecological zoning for Mato
Grosso, which delineates seven macro zones based on soil fertility, slope,
precipitation and socio-economic factors (see Map IBRD 23466).
3.06        The main features of the seven zones are summarized below:
(a)   Zone 1 (approximately 76,000 km2) - The fertile soils in the
cerrados of central Mato Grosso are suitable for large-scale
mechanized agriculture. For the most part these are already
occupied by larger farmers, and no project interventions are
envisaged in these areas.
(b)   Zone 2 (41,000 km2) - The fertile soils in the southeast and
southwest of the state have a high concentration of small farmers
and are suitable for diversified agriculture. The project would
encourage further agricultural intensification and consolidation
in this zone.



- 13 -
(c)   Zone 3 (227,000 km2) - Soils in the north of the state are of
moderate to poor quality. The project would encourage farming
systems based on agro-forestry, only in those areas which are
already deforested and occupied by concentrations of small
farmers.
(d)   Zone 4 (175,000 km2) - This zone covers the Pantanal wetlands,
which are periodically flooded and are therefore suitable only for
conservation and/or extensive animal production. As support for
the Pantanal is included in the on-going Bank financed National
Environmental Project (Loan 3173-BR), no project actions are
envisaged for this area.
(e)   Zone 5 (33,000 km2) - These are areas under forest cover in the
north of the state. The project would encourage the use of more
sustainable practices in areas which are under private ownership,
and the creation of forest reserves in public lands.
(f)   Zone 6 (237,000 km2) - This zone includes areas in the north of
the state where the ecosystems are so fragile or unique that
conservation and protection is the most appropriate course of
action. The project would therefore support the creation and
implementation of conservation units (state biological reserves
and ecological stations).
(g)   Zone 7 (112,000 k1m2) - This zone comprises indigenous reserves,
which would be protected under the project.
Proiect Com2onents
3.07        The project has been tailored to the sustainable development
potential of each of the major agro-ecological zones. It would include five
components, to be implemented over a five year period, as follows:
(a)   Refinement of aaro-ecological zonina and land tenure
reaularization (USS40.0 million or 17% of total baseline costs):
including land zoning, mapping and land regularization activities,
with priority assigned to those areas where establishment of
conservation units and indigenous reserves will occur, and areas
where the need for land tenure regularization is more acute or
where tenurial conflicts have already started;
(b)   Manacement. protection and monitorina of natural resources
IUSS54.4 million or 22% of total baseline costs): including
establishment, management/protection of conservation units and
forestry reserves, protection of indigenous reserves;
environmental protection, pollution control, strengthening of
forestry police and monitoring of protected areas, training and
technical assistance;



- 14 -
(c)   Aaro-forestrv develonment IUSS70.2 million or 29t of total
baseline costsl: including rural extension, agro-forestry
research, rural credit, and market information systems;
(d)   Socio-economic infrastructure and services (USS65.4 million or 27%
of total baseline costs): including strengthening of the
infrastructure related to health, education, water supply, rural
electrification, and maintenance and rehabilitation of rural
rcads; and
(e)   Proiect administration and technical cooperation (USS11.9 million
or 5% of total baseline costs): including installation and
operating costs of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in Cuiab&,
supported by an independent technical cooperation group
responsible for advising the PCU with respect to project
monitoring and evaluation, and for recommending any needed changes
in project strategy and content.
A. Aaro-Ecolooical Zonina and Land Tenure Reaularization
3.08        The overall objective of this component is to support comp)etion/
implementation of the agro-ecological zoning and clarification of the complex
land tenure structure of the State, as a basis for other project activities
and future development planning and administration.
3.09        Aoro-ecoloaical 2onino and Matxina.  The available maps of Mato
Grosso are at a scale of ll,000,000, except for some soil maps developed
during the implementation of POLONOROESTE. While these have been adequate for
general planning purposes, small scale maps are now needed for more detailed
planning and implementation (e.g., for proper border control of zones and
reserves; agro-forestry planning for specific areas within Zones 3), and all
maps need wider dissemination. The project would support the refinement of
the agro-ecological zoning, including the preparation and distribution by the
State Secretariat for Planning and Coordination (SEPLAN-MT) of statewide agro-
ecological, climatologicLl, soil and topographic maps, and training of SEPLAN-
MT staff. The project would also support the cartographic work necessary for
the creation, management and protection of conservation units, forest reserves
and indigenous reserves.
3.10        During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that
by June 30, 1994, agro-ecological, soil and topographic maps of its territory
would be prepared, in consultation with the Secretaria de Assuntos
Estrat6aicos of the Borrower's presidency, and furnished to the Bank, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (a)).
These maps would be at a scale of 1:50,000 for Zones 2 and 3 in the south of
the State and Zone 2 in the north, and 1:250,000 for other areas in the south
of the State and the project area in the north, considering for this purpose
the parallel 13 degrees South Latitude as the division between north and



- 15 -
south. Aerial photography covering 100,000 km2 in Zones 2 and 3 would also be
supported under this project, to asist in zoning surveys, land tenure
regularization and soil and water conservation programs undertaken by the
agricultural extension service. In addition, in some critical areas from an
environmental point of view, topographic, soil and agro-ecological maps would
be produced at scales of 1:10,000 and 1:25,000. Agro-ecological zoning was
legally instituted by Nato Grosso State Law of May 1992.
3.11        Land Tenure Reaularlzatton.  The land tenure structure in Mato
Grosso is uncertain, with many overlapping claims to use rights and ownership.
Clarifying this present situation and developing and enforcing appropriate
iegal measures, policies and regulations, are essential. The project would
provide funds to INTERMAT for physical facilities, equipment, materials and
contractual services for the: (a) delimitation, demarcation and cadastral
registration of approximately 41.3 million ha of public and private lands,
equivalent to 45% of the total area of the state; (b) discriminatory action on
about 19.2 million ha to identify public and private lands, resolve pending
questions regarding indigenous areas and identify land for the creation of
conservation areas; (c) demarcation of about 1,000 kms of conservation areas;
and (d) issuance of titles on land currently occupied by about 18,000 families
with legitimate rights of possession.
3.12        INTERMAT would administer and supervise this subcomponent,
contracting out part of the cartographic and photographic work. A draft
agreement between INCRA and the State Government on land regularization
policies and practices which are to be observed in the state, consistent with
the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning, was reviewed during loan
negotiations, and the signing of this agreement, if not completed earlier,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (a)). At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by September 30, 1992, the State would prepare
and present to its Legislative Assembly, for approval, legislation on land
use, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and would take all
actions necessary to have such legislation approved by its Legislative
Assembly, as soon as possible (para. 4.01 (b)).
B. Management. Protection and Monitorina of Natural Resources
3.13        This component would help conserve the State's biodiversity, while
creating the basis for sustainable natural resource utilization and management
for the direct economic benefit of the local population. It comprises eight
sub-components, described below.
3.14        Manaaement and Conservation of Forest Resources.  In order to
conserve the State's renewable forestry resources in Zone 5, the project would
support: (a) the identification, creation and demarcation of nine State Forest
Reserves (RFE) covering an estimated 4.0 million ha.; (b) the preparation of
an overall study for each of the nine reserve areas, including forest
inventories, and the development of management plans and detailed action
programs for the RFB; (c) implementation of a forestry awareness campaign; and



- 16 -
(d) training of foresters. FEMA would be responsible for the implementation
of this sub-component, following demarcation by INTERMAT. The project would
finance civil works and basic infrastructures for the RFE and law enforcement
posts, equipment, vehicles, training, and awareness campaign material.
3.15        The State Government is committed to the delimitation and
iemarcation of private and public lands, the creation of forest reserves in
public lands and the preparation of a plan of action for the sustained
management of private lands in Zone 5. During negotiations, the State
provided assurances that by June 30, 1994, it would establish and thereafter
maintain forest reserves in areas identified as unoccupied public lands
through the discriminatory works carried out during the first year of the
project in Zone 5; and by June 30, 1995, it would establish and thereafter
maintain forest reserves in all other areas in Zone 5 identified as unoccupied
public lands through the discriminatory works, provided that at least nine
reserves would be established by June 30, 1995 (para. 4.01 (c)). For
privately owned areas in Zone 5, a satisfactory plan of action, to encourage
the sustainable management of private forests, consistent with the agro-
ecological zoning recommendations, would be completed no later than June 30,
1993, and put into effect thereafter (para. 4.01 (d)).
3.16        Mining Activities Rationalization.  Although difficult to
quantify, the consequences of the different forms of mining (aarimDaaem)
practiced in Mato Grosso are becoming a serious threat to the State's
enviroiment. The effects include destruction of the riverine vegetation of
critical watersheds, erosion of fertile alluvial soils and river banks,
changes in river bed topography, water pollution and encroachment into
conservation units and indigenous areas. Federal legislation was passed but
is not effectively enforced, and few efforts have been made to rationalize or
control mining activities in Mato Grosso. The project would support:
(a) preparation of an inventory and mapping of mining activities in the State,
with particular attention to environmentally more fragile zones; (b)
preparation of a study on mining standards and on licensing of gold mining;
(c) establishment of mining standards and licensing requirements for gold
mining; (d) research on the applicability of environmentally more benign
mining technology and establishment of demonstration projects/sites using new
technology for gold extraction; and (e) implementation of health, education
and other assistance programs for small mining communities. This sub-
component would be implemented by FEMA in the northern areas of Mato Grosso
where the oarimvaaem problem is most acute. The project would finance
infrastructure, experimental sites, vehicles and equipment, training courses,
consultancies and technical assistance, and operating costs. To reinforce
Federal environmental legislation, the State provided assurances during
negotiations that by September 30, 1992, it would prepare and present to its
Legislative Assembly, for approval, proposed legislation on environment,
satisfactory to the Bank, and would take all necessary actions to have the
legislation approved by its Legislative Assembly as soon as possible (para.
4.01 (b)). The legislation would provide, inter alia, for stronger State
regulatory powers over mineral and forestry extraction.



- 17 -
3.17        Establishment of Conservation Areas.  Only about 217,000 ha in
Mato Grosso are protected by small federal conservation units, of which two
are national parks and two are ecological stations. in addition, there is a
very small state ecological reserve (3,900 ha) and a municipal park (15 ha) in
the city of Cuiaba. The ecological representativeness of the federal
conservation units are very low, as a consequence of their relatively small
size and geographical distribution.
3.18        The State Government is committed to the establishment of
additional conservation units in all unoccupied public lands in Zone 6. After
clarification and demarcation of the boundaries of public and private lands
under the Land Tenure Regularization sub-component, the project would supports
(a) ecological assessment of the proposed areas, preparation of management
plans for each new conservation unit, essential infrastructure, and equipment
needed to implement the management plans; (b) institutional strengthening of
FEMA; and (c) public awareness canipa4gns to sensitize communities living in
and around the conservation units. 'rht. areas targeted for establishment of
conservation units include some 4.A m.llion ha: Chaoada dos Guimaraes - '0,000
ha (extension of an existing rese:ve), gabeceiras do Rio Cuiaba - 300,000 ha,
Rio Madeirinha - 800,000 ha, Rio Ronura - 700,000 ha, Serra Ricardo Franco 
400,000 ha, Serra de Santa Barbara - 800,000 ha, Pantanal do Rio das Mortes -
800,000 ha, Serra do Cachimbo - 500,000 ha and ADiacas - 477,000 ha.  The
project would finance surveys, construction of offices and control posts in
the units, vehicles, training, technical assistance, and incremental salaries.
In addition, evidence of the recent creation of the Pontal State Biological
Reserve, in the municipality of Apiacas was presented by the State during
negotiations. FEMA would be responsible for implementation. During
negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that:
(a) by December 31, 1992, they would carry out a study on the feasibility of
the enlargement of the existing conservation unit located in the Chaoada dos
Guimaraes in Mato Grosso; and if so recommended by such studies, promptly take
all action necessary to enlarge, and thereafter maintain as enlarged, such
conservation unit (para. 4.02 (b)); and (b) by June 30, 1994, the State would
establish and thereafter maintain conservation units in lands identified as
unoccupied public lands through the discriminatory works carried out in the
first year of the project in Zone 6, and by June 30, 1995, it would establish
conservation units in all remaining lands identified as unoccupied public
lands through the discriminatory works in Zone 6, provided that at least 16
conservation units are established (para. 4.01 (c)). For privately owned
areas in Zone 6, a satisfactory plan of action to encourage the sustained
management of private forests, consistent with the agro-ecological zoning
recommendations, would be completed no later than June 30, 1993, and put into
effect thereafter (para. 4.01 (d)).
3.19        Informal Environmental Education.  The main objective of this sub-
component is to sensitize the public in Mato Grosso to existing environmental
problems and their effects, and to build community support for conservation
and sustainable land use. Project activities would promote the establishment
of Municipal Councils for Environmental Defense (CONDEMAs) in each district
and non-governmental organizations (associations, NGOs, foundations and clubs)



- 18 -
concerned with environmental issues. This sub-component would be implemented
by FEMA through meetings, seminars and use of audio-visual materials. The
project would finance seminirs and training courses, consultants, and
trainers' honorariums, trainlng of FEMA personnel, and other operating costs.
Mass media would be us6d to disseminate the messages on issues of public
interest, including relevant Federal and State legislation.
3.20        Enforcemen_Activities.  The main aim of this sub-component is to
ensure that the protected areas and conservation units are not encroached upon
by settlers and/or illegal logging activities, hunting or predatory fishing.
The State Forestry Police (PMF-MT) would be strengtherid to enforce State
environmental legislation and support FEMA's licensing operations and
monitoring of mining, pesticide use and othar polluting activities. The
project would finance equipment (radio transmitters, refueling equipment,
generators and battery chargers), vehicles (boats powered by 25 HP engines, a
launch with a 60 HP engine, one helicopter and one ultralight aircraft), and
office furniture; headquarters buildings and outposts; incremental salaries of
foreat police, travel costs, maintenance and other operating costs, and
training, technical assistance and special studies.
3.21        Support to Indigenous Communities.  The project would help to
safeguard the areas occupied by indigenous groups against illegal encroachment
and use by outsiders, and to strengthen health services for these groups. It
would provide for: (a) the border demarcation of 9 indigenous reserves with an
aggregate area of about 1.14 million ha and about 1,424 km of boundaries;
(b) renewal of the boundaries of some sections of 38 reserves previously
demarcated, encompassing an area of about 10.3 million ha; (c) identification
and protection of isolated indigenous groups not iet officially contacted and,
where appropriate, identification and demarcation of their areas;
(d) strengthened FUNAI's monitoring and enforcement activities to protect
indigenous reserves from illegal encroachment through the provision of fixed
and mobile monitoring units equipped with communications equipment and through
increased cooperation with the State Military Police and the Federal.
Environmental Agency; and (a) upgrading the health services available to
indigenous groups, including visiting medical teams at the post level,
specialized training of medical personnel and indigenous health monitors.
Through an agreement with the State Government, additional health
professionals will be hired to staff FUNAIX's mobile health teams. The project
would also finance a study and a few small-scale experiments for developing
sustainable income-producing activities in indigenous communities.
3.22        Administration of the ind  enous component would be carried out by
a specialized team within FUNAI, including a general coordinator and sectoral
coordinators for: (a) demarcation and boundary renewal; (b) protection of
isolated Indians; (c) monitoring and enforcement; and (d) health services.
This team would be assisted by an indigenous specialist (already hired) within
the UNDP technical assistance mission and by short-term consultants. Draft
operating agreements have been agreed in principle between the Military
Police, FUNAI, IBAMA and the State of Mato Grosso to ensure effective
protection of the indigenous reserves; between the State Health Agency and
FUNAI for cooperation in staffing mobile health teams for indigenous



- 19 -
communities and adequate hoopiti.1 care and diagnostic services to indigenous
patients; and between FUNAI, INTERMAT and INCRA for cooperation in all matters
of land settlement, disputes or titling near indigenous areas. The signing of
these and all other operating agreements between the State and each project
execution agency would be a condition of loan effectiveness (paras. 3.46 and
4.03 (d)). A specific FUNAI proposal for the protection of the Zor6
Indigenous area was reviewed during negotiations; completion of removal of all
squatters living within the boundaries of the Zor6 Indigenous area would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. '.03 (b)). The State Government has
removed most miners and other illegal occupants from within and around the
Sarare Indigenous area; completion of removal of all min?rs and other illegal
occupants from within and around the Sarare Indigenous area and presentation
to the Bank of a satisfactory action plan (the Sarar6 Action Plan) to prevent
future illegal occupations of the Sarar6 Indigenous area and to recuperate the
area from any environmental damage caused by the mining, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (c)). The Borrower and the State Government
provided assurances during negotiations that the Sarar6 Action Plan would be
carried out in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.02 (c)).
3.23        Monitorino and Remote Sensina.  A Forest Cover Monitoring Unit
would be created as part of the project coordinating unit and physically
located in SEPLAN-MT. The forest unit would work closely with FEMA, PMF-MT,
the Brazilian Instit te for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
(IBAMA), FUNAI, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA) and
INTERMAT on land use and environmental monitoring activities and harmonize
activities among different agencies executing zoning activities. In addition
the unit would monitor the location and surface changes in mining and logging
activities in order to assist in inspection and enforcement activities of
FEMA. The maps produced would be sent to the State and Federal agencies
responsible for the control of illegal intrusion and deforestation. The
project would finance the servicas and project-related travel of four remote
sansing technicians; image analysis equipment for aerial photography and
satellite imagery; cartographic reproduction facilities; statewide Landsat
imagery coverage; and related operating costs. During negotiations, the State
provided assurances that by January 1, 1993, and by January 1 of each year
thereafter until project completion, it would prepare a report on the
satellite monitoring of the rate and location of deforestation that occurred
in its territory during the preceding year, and the results would be made
available to the Bank and the public (para. 4.01 (e)).
3.24        Institutional Strenathenino.  The State's capacity to implement
environmental conservation and protection activities is constrained by the
weakness of the existing legislation and by the lack of presence at field
level of FEMA, responsible for its implementation. FEMA is relatively young,
created in 1987, and state environmental legislation (Law 4984), although
comprehensive, did not adapt to local realities the Federal legislation from
which it originated. In addition, the State Council for the Environment
(CONSEMA) has no environmental master plan to be used for strategic planning.
The proposed new environmental legislation (paras. 3.16 and 4.03 (c)) and



- 20 -
activities to be financed under the project would provide state agencies with
additional regulatory powers and enforcement capacity, and would improve their
strategic planning capability. The State is currently undergoing a
reorganization/decentralization of all public agencies and services which
would improve, in the long run, the presence of FEMA at field level. A State
Government proposal on the organizational and staffing modifications of FEMA
to ensure suitable capability to implement the environmental component of the
project was reviewed during negotiations. The project would finance the
recruitment of a specialized consultant to assist FEMA in the preparation of a
strategy plan; a special program "Mutirao Para a Natureza" which will award
grants for projects elaborated at municipal level by legally recognized non-
governmental groups; and construction of office facilities, purchase of
vehicles, and other FEMA incremental operating costs to support
decentralization to the field level.
C. Acro-Forestrv Development
3.25        The overall objective of this component is to support the
Government's effort to transform traditional extensive farming systems into
permanent sustainable agro-forestry in the Northern part of the State (Zone
3); intensify agricultural production in the Southern fertile soils (Zone 2);
and initiate the privatization of agricultural support services. The project
would support a series of interventions designed to: (a) concentrate
agricultural support services in the most productive and fertile areas of zone
2; (b) promote the cultivation of suitable perennial crops, excluding coffee
and cocoa; (c) support expansion of cropped area on fallow land or abandoned
pasture land, and initiate a program of fallow enrichment and sylvipastoral
activities; (d) diversify the existing crop mix by promoting viable new crops,
including trees, developing mixed cropping systems and introducing crop
rotation techniques; (e) reinforce efforts to retain forest reserves and
recuperate degraded land through the promotion of woodlots at farm level;
(f) support two pilot projects to stimulate privatization of the extension
service; and (g) encourage private investment in small-scale agro-processing
and storage activities.
3.26        Aaro-forestry Research.  Specific objectives of the research sub-
component would be to widen and accelerate the availability to farmers of
financially and ecologically sustainable farming systems, emphasizing tree
crops diversification, agro-forestry, and re-forestation; transfer at least
half of the research activity to on-farm technology validation trials; and
achieve effective integration with extension in technology transfer and
research feedback. The applied research program, while continuing on-going
activities of selection and adaptation testing of new high-yielding varieties,
would focus on perennial crops, agro-forestry and forestry research. The
perennial crops research topics will include selection and adaptation of new
clones and improved planting materials of rubber, bananas,  aniunha, acerola,
and others for tolerance to acid soils and diseases and ability for
sustainable, low-cost production; introduction and evaluation of available
germoplasm and planting material; and definition of control measures for
important pests. In agro-forestry mixtures, short- and long-duration
perennial species would be intercropped with annual crops in their early



- 21 -
years. This mixed cropping system would improve sustainability of yields and
productivity and maintain soil fertility by conservation of soil and moisture.
Forestry research would concentrate on enrichment planting in secondary forest
(tree fallow) regeneration of degraded areas and reforestation with
plantations of timber species. Only basic evaluation of species would be
carried out on-station; all subsequent testing would be on-farm technology
validation trials which would later serve as demonstrations and for training
purposes.
3.27        In total, the adaptive research program, to be implemented by
EMPAER, would support about 260 experiments for perennial crops and 80 for
agro-forestry, forestry, animal production and conservation of natural
resources. Transfer of technology would be facilitated by a new regional
organization based on an interdisciplinary research-cum-extension team headed
by a subject matter specialist, to ensure the maximum flow of information to
farmers through on-farm technology validation trials. The project would
finance construction of offices and field laboratories, agricultural and
laboratory equipment, consultancies and incremental operating costs, except
salaries which would be financed by the State Government.
3.28        Rural Extension.  The State agricultural extension services
expanded rapidly under the previous POLONOROESTE projects. However, its
effectiveness has been limited due to inadequate research back-up, excessive
administrative tasks, insufficient attention to field work, concentration on
specific crops rather than on overall farm planning, and lack of rural credit.
At present, extension services are provided through a system of individual
contact, resulting in relatively higher costs per beneficiary and limited
coverage. The State Government of Mato Grosso has reorganized its extension
services and consolidated them with agricultural research under only one
institution, EMPAER. In the future, EMPAER would operate in 9 administrative
regions and 62 local offices. A group extension methodology would support:
specialized training for about 1,545 farmers who would assist with
implementation of on-farm demonstrations and terhnology validation trialst re-
training of about 420 EMPAER staff in agro-forestry and forestry, marketing,
small-scale processing and farm management; and about 2,070 on-farm
demonstrations and 690 technology validation trials. The project would also
finance mass-media communication programs, the preparation of field manuals,
and the establishment of a forestry and perennial crops seed bank. Some
32,100 farmers would be assisted. The target would be to establish a network
of 1 agent per 300 farmers by year 5 of the project period (compared to the
present of 1 to 70). The project would finance offices, training facilities,
equipment, per diem and other incremental operating costs except staff
salaries to be financed by the State Government.
3.29        Finally, to foster eventual privatization of agricultural services
for small farmers, ENPAER will carry out two pilot projects: (a) in Year 1 of
the project, fees would be introduced for individual extension visits in 10
municipalities, with an evaluation carried out in Year 2; (b) in three
municipalities EMPAER would reimburse farmers the cost of private technical
assistance, decreasing annually from 100% to 15% in year 4. The results of



- 22 -
the pilot projects would be used to expand the privatization of extension
services throughout the State.
3.30        Rural Credit.  The volume of rural credit in Mato Grosso decreased
during 1986-91 from US$641.0 million (41,500 loans) to US$381.0 million (8,850
loans), while -.he average loan size increased three-fold. Furthermore, 1990
statistics indicate that 80% of short-term credit financed rice and soybean
crops, traditionally grown by larger farmers. The lack of smallholder credit
has contributed to slowing down the development of perennial crops in Mato
Grosso, and slash and burn shifting cultivation of annual crops has increased.
Recognizing the need for credit services as means of stabilizing rural
settlement and modifying production systems, the State introduced in 1988 a
barter form of credit in kind whereby borrowers received and repaid loans with
their products. This pilot operation, administered by the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Land Affairs (SEAAF) has been well accepted by farmers, and
loan recovery has been satisfactory.
3.31        While over the longer term commercial banks should increase
lending to farmers in Mato Grosso, presently this occurs only in sporadic
cases because of high transaction costs and concentration of small farmers
without definitive land title or any other type of collateral guarantee.
Access to credit is a critical requirement for the success of the project's
agricultural/environmental strategy. The availability of credit through the
pilot "in kind" system has already proven its usefulness, but as credit demand
grows, management of the collection and storage of in-kind payments will
present increasing logistical problems and costs. The State has, therefore,
decided to convert this into credit which is still denomine.ted in-kind, but
based on monetary transactions. The new system would be legally established
through a specially regulated fund (FUNDAGRO) to be administered by the Mato
Grosso State Bank, although other banks, acceptable to the Bank, could also
participate.
3.32        Under the operating conditions of FUNDAGRO, the loan principle
would be adjusted by the annual variation in product prices with interest
charged in accordance with the formula applied under the Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2960-BR). Although there may be short-term differences between
inflation and product reference prices, these are not expected to be
significant over the long run. To safeguard FUNDAGRO against possible erosion
of value due to short-term variations, a small special fund would be
ecstablished. FUNDAGRO would finance investments and essential inputs (seeds,
seedlings, fertilizers and chemicals) for diversification into perennial
crops, other than cocoa and coffee; enrichment of secondary growth/forest
fallow with valuable wood species, and other on-farm investments such as
storage facilities, equipment and fish culture activities. FUNDAGRO would not
finance the large livestock breeding and fattening operations, but would
support small scale milk/meat operations in the southwest of the State.
Activlties financed would be in accordance with the State's agro-ecological
zoning. Some 15,000 farmers would benefit.
3.33        Presentation of satisfactory evidence of the establishment of
FUNDAGRO and adoption of a satisfactory operating manual for FUNDAGRO would be



- 23 -
a condition of disbursement of the credit category of the loan (para. 4.04
(a)). During negotiations, the State provided assurances that: (a) it would
maintain FUNDAGRO, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
would cause FUNDAGRO to carry out its operations in accordance with the
FUNDAGRO operating manual, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) by June 30, 1993,
and by June 30 of each year thereafter until project completion, the State
would prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a report evaluating the
performance of FUNDAGRO during the preceding year, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (f)). The report would be prepared by
the Project Coordination Unit, and an Inter-institutional Credit Group,
comprising representatives of SEPLAN-MT, SEAAF, BENAT and EMPAER.
3.34        Croy Storaae. Processinq and Marketing Information.  The project
would support the State Government's efforts to privatize marketing activities
like storage and processing. Drying, storage and processing facilities would
be financed through the new FUNDAGRO rural credit line. Therefore, state
agencies like EMPAER, the State Warehouse and Silo Company (CASEMAT), and the
Institute for Agricultural Protection (INDEA), reporting to SEAAF, would
provide only support services in the planning/supervision of marketing
infrastructure and training of farmers. ENPAER would identify
storage/processing marketing projects, while CASEMAT would prepare the
technical projects; BEMAT would assist farmer groups in supervising
construction and would train farmers in storage/drying procedures. To assist
in these efforts, the project would finance the establishment of a Central
Coordinating Marketing Unit (UCAC) to provide data collection, analysis and
dissemination of marketing and price information; support services to
facilitate contacts between sellers and buyers; and support services to
farmers' associations regarding the construction and overall management of the
storage units. UCAC would be located in SEAAF and would report directly to
the Secretary of Agriculture. The project would also finance the
establishment and equipment of seven classification posts for the grading of
farm products. INDEA would implement this component and would train UAPT
personnel in grading and classification procedures. INDEA would also prepare
information on grading and pre-classification at farm level for further
dissemination by UCAC.
D. Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services
3.35        One of the objectives of the project strategy is to encourage the
concentration of population in those areas which have the potential for
permanent agriculture, to mitigate the pressure on other areas which should
remain under forest cover. Adequate and well-maintained, socio-economic
infrastructure and basic social services are important incentives for
retaining smallholders in Zones 2 and 3. At the same time, the State's
commitment not to provide such infrastructure and services elsewhere should
serve as a strong disincentive to encroachment of forested areas in Zones 5
and 6. The project would, therefore, finance a five-year time slice of
essential activities in health, education, water supply, rural
electrification, and maintenance and paving of existing rural roads. These



- 24 -
activities would be concentrated in Zones 2 and 3 in southern Mato Grosso and
in three selected areas in the North, around the municipalities of Juina and
Castanheira, Juara and Novo Horizonte, and Colider and Terra Nova do Norte,
where high concentrations of population and good soils are coincidental.
3.36        Health.  The project would support the consolidation and expansion
of the health system in the Zones 2 and 3 through: (a) construction of about
27 new health posts, enlargement of 15 posts and restoration of 3 posts;
(b) equipment for the newly constructed and expanded posts; (c) five
ambulances and one vehicle for the coordination office; and (d) training of
health instructors, newly recruited health assistants and complementary
refresher training for existing personnel. The project would finance
construction, vehicles, equipment and materials, and incremental operating
costs. The State of Mato Grosso Health Secretariat (SES) would be responsible
for implementation. During negotiations, the State provided assurances that
it would enter into contractual arrangementrs with each municipality before SES
start health investments in such municipality. Such arrangement would include
inter alia the obligation of the municipality to provide maintenance required
for works performed under the project, starting one year after execution
(para. 4.01 (g)).
3.37        Education.  Only about 29% of the rural school-age population in
the target areas currently have access to schools, and dropout and repeater
rates are very high. Among the main problems are: the shortage of classrooms,
poor qualification of rural teachers, lack of equipment and educational
material, and poor supervision. The project would, therefore, support a five-
year slice of the Government's educational program, including:
(a) construction, restoration, or expansion of about 200 rural schools,
identified through a school mapping exercise; (b) training of about 400
uncertified teachers; (c) vehicles, equipment, and incremental operating
costs; and (d) a pilot program on environmental education in about 15 schools.
A coordinating unit within the Secretariar of Education (SEC) would supervise
and coordinate implementation of the sub-component. During negotiations, the
State provided assurances that it would enter into contractual arrangements
with each municipality before SEC start education investments in such
municipality. Such arrangement would include inter alia the obligation of the
municipality to provide maintenance required for works performed under the
project, starting one year after execution. (para. 4.01 (g)).
3.38        Water Sugoly.  The project would support the establishment of
simple water supply systems, including perforation of 55 artesian wells,
construction of 290 km. of distribution network, and training of 55 well
operators. Funds would be provided for construction, equipment and training.
The Water Supply and Sewage Company of Mato Grosso (SANEMAT) would be
responsible for the implementation. During negotiations, the State provided
assurances that SANENAT would establish the water supply systems only after
signing contractual arrangements with the municipalities, and would maintain
the systems for one year after their establishment and train one well operator
per community during this period. After the first year, the maintenance of
the water supply system would be a municipality responsibility (para. 4.01
(g)).



- 25 -
3.39        Rural Electrification.  Zone 2, where agro-industrial and
processing activities are to be promoted by the State, has a limited power
distribution and the quality of service is poor. The project would support:
(a) adaptation of the installations in the Cfceres and Quatro Marcos
substations, and establishment of about 527 km8 of distribution network;
(b) adaptation of the installation in Rondon6polis substation and
establishment of 155 kms of distribution network. The Electricity Company of
Mato Grosso (CEMAT) would implement this component, which would be executed by
private contractors following Bank procurement guidelines. CEMAT would hire a
consultant to help in the preparation of bidding documents and procurement
procedures in general. During negotiations, the State provided assurances
that it would provide adequate maintenance for the works and equipment
financed under this sub-component (para. 4.01 (h)).
3.40        Rural Transport.  Adequate road rehabilitation and maintenance is
critical to ensure timely input supply and marketing in Zones 2 and 3. The
project would support rehabilitation of 3,000 kms of State roads, and 4,500
kms of municipal roads; paving of the existing 69 km. of gravel road from
Arapuntanga to Jaurd (MT 248) and 55 kms of the gravel road from Lambadi to
Salto do C6u - Vila Progresuo; training of personnel in road management and
administration; training and establishment of an environmental impact
assessment unit; and a study of the legal/institutional arrangements needed to
establish a permanent road maintenance system. The Company for the
Development of Mato Grosso (CODEMAT) would administer the state and municipal
road programs. During negotiations, the State provided assurances that before
starting rehabilitation of municipal roads, it will sign contractual
arrangements with each municipality providing for the obligation for such
municipality to maintain the municipal roads improved by the project (para.
4.01 (g)); and that the State would provide adequate maintenance of State
roads improved by the project (para. 4.01 (h)). Paving of the two roads would
be carried out through ICB according to Bank procedures. Presentation of
satisfactory Environmental Impact Assessments, including mitigating actions,
if necessary, for the paving of the roads between Araputanga-Jaurd and
Lambadi-Salto do C6u-Vila Progresso, would be a condition of disbursement for
related expenditures (para. 4.04 (b)).
E. Proiect Administration
3.41        The project would help to strengthen the State and Federal Project
Coordination Units, with particular emphasis on improving their monitoring and
evaluation capabilities through training, technical assistance, and
consultancies. Specifically, the project would finance: (a) the installation
costs of the State Project Coordination Unit, including administrative
offices, equipment and operating costs; (b) the operating costs of the Federal
National Coordination Unit in the National Secretariat for Regional
Development in the Presidency of the Republic (SDR-PR)i (c) technical
assistance; and (d) the implementation of a monitoring system based on



- 26 -
satellite imagery for the immediate detection of illegal deforestation and
invasion of protected areas.
Proiect Organization
3.42        Institutional Strenathenino.  The proposed institutional and
administrative arrangements for the project are based on detailed analyses of
the lessons learned under the previous POLONOROESTE projects. An effort was
made to distinguish problems attributable to lack of institutional capacity
per so, from those which were due to inadequate or untimely release of
counterpart funds. Funding problems were chronic under POLONOROESTE; when the
funding situation improved during the last two years, implementation
accelerated and state agencies managed to execute almost 100% of their
physical targets.
3.43        The principal institutional problems of the earlier POLONOROESTE
projects included: (a) overcentralization of decision-making and
implementation responsibility at the Federal level; (b) inexperienced State
institutions; (c) inadequate technical assistance and training, especially for
some of the more innovative activities in environmental protection,
conservation and agro-forestry development; and (d) the absence of adequate
personnel policies to allow key project agencies to hire and retain suitably
qualified staff. For each of the main project agencies, organizational
structure, staffing, operating practices and budget were reviewed. Taking
into account activities to be implemented, provision has been made under the
project for institutional strengthening of the main agencies through increased
staffing, training, technical assistance and consultancies; and for
redefinition of lines of responsibility for project Implementation between the
Federal and State Governments and among some executing agencies. The main
proposals for institutional strengthening under the project include:
(a) decentralization of responsibility and accountability for the execution of
most project activities from the Federal to the State Government; (b) primary
reliance on the private contracting out of project works; (c) reliance on
existing Government structures, rather than the creation of special entities;
(d) extensive training, technical support and consultancy services,
particularly in fields requiring greater innovation or in areas in which a
major impact is expected in a short period of time; and (e) improvements in
personnel policies.
3.44        Coordination Arrangements.  The Secretariat for Regional
Development within the Presidency of the Republic (SDR-PR) has federal
responsibility for program coordination. Interministerial decrees describe,
in general terms, the way in which the Federal Ministries and State
Governments would collaborate, as well as the various programming, budgeting
and funding procedures to be used. In addition, SDR-PR and the Secretariat of
Planning of Hato Grosso (SEPLAN-MT) would conclude a separate Subsidiary
Agreement defining their respective roles. The draft Agreement between the
State (through SEPLAN-MT) and the Lorrower (through SDR-PR), outlining
respective responsibilities for project implementation, including agreed
mechanisms of flow of project funds from the Federal Government to the State,
was reviewed during negotiations. The Agreement would emphasize the State's



- 27 -
responsibility for project implementation, with a view to fostering a self-
sustaining development process in Mato Grosso. A satisfactory signed
Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and the State would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (d)).
3.45        A State Council for Project Administration (CEAP), presided by the
Governor, would be responsible for overall project guidance and policy
direction, as well as for approval of the annual project budget and for
ensuring and guaranteeing adequate allocation of counterpart funds in the
state annual budget. CEAP would be comprised of representatives of SDR-PR,
SEPLAN-MT, state implementing agencies, FUNAI, state offices of INCRA and
IBAMA, the municipal Mayors' Associations and NGOs. SEPLAN-MT would function
as the Executive Secretariat of the Council. It would be assisted on a day-
to-day basis by a State Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which would be formed
by a Director, 2 sub-directors (in charge of the technical and financial
control units), 5 Area Chiefs (Supervision, Monitoring, Financial Control,
Administrative Support, Documentation and Information), 7 Area Supervisors, 8
sectoral monitors, 4 technicians in financial control and auditing, and
support staff. The Technical Unit would be responsible for the technical
review and consolidation of the work programs of the executing agencies, with
separate sections in charge of environmental control, forest development,
agro-forestry, credit and marketing, Amerindian support, and socio-economic
infrastructure and services. Technical staff would spend a minimum of one
week per month on field supervision in order to ensure close contact with
field staff and project beneficiaries, and effective response to local
problems. The Financial Control Unit would handle budgeting, disbursements
and accounting matters. The satisfactory staffing of the PCU would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 4.03 (d)). During negotiations, the State
provided assurances that it would maintain within SEPLAN-MT the PCU, with
satisfactory organization, structure, functions and staffing (para. 4.01 (i)).
3.46        Implementation Arrancements.  The principal implementing agencies
would include those for land regularization (INTERMAT, INCRA); agro-ecological
zoning (SEPLAN-MT); environmental conservation, forest protection and
management (FEMA, IBAMA, PMF-MT); support to indigenous communities (FUNAI,
IBAMA, INTERMAT, INCRA, PMF-MT); rural extension and agricultural research
(EMPAER); rural credit (BEMAT); rural transport (CODEMAT); marketing support
services (SEAAF, EMPAER, CASEMAT, INDEA); rural electrification (CEMAT);
health (SES-MT); education (SEC-MT); and water supply (SANEMAT). These
agencies would be directly responsible for budgeting and implementation, and
they would be accountable for the application of funds and the results
obtained. To overcome the poor inter-agency coordination of the previous
project, the various agencies would formalize the arrangements governing their
form of cooperation, clearly identifying the distribution of tasks, and they
would maintain an updated organization chart with job descriptions of all key
field personnel financed by the project. Draft Operating Agreements
(convenios) between the State (through SEPLAN-MT/PCU) and the project
executing agencies, for each component, were reviewed during negotiations, and
the signing of satisfactory agreements would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 4.03 (d)). During negotiations, the State Government



- 28 -
provided assurances that these agreements would be maintained throughout
project implementation (para. 4.01 (1)).
3.47        Annual Plans and Budgets.  Draft Annual Operating Plans (POAs),
prepared by SEPLAN-MT, i *uld be based on the multi-annual targets of the
project, and corrected according to experience gained in the previous year,
and submitted to the Bank each year, together with the estimated total State
and Federal funding allocations (both counterpart fvnds and the amount of
external funds budgeted). During negotiations, Federal and State Governments
provided assurances that they would provide to the Bank: (i) by July 15, 1992,
and by July 15 of each year thereafter, the annual budgetary allocation
proposal for the project for the next calendar year; and (ii) for review and
comments, by November 15, 1992, and by November 15 of each year thereafter,
the draft POA including the physical targets, budget, staffing, training and
procurement targets for project activities for the next calendar year. It
would also provide the Bank with a copy of the final budget and POA as soon as
they have been approved, and would take all necessary action to ensure that
the project is implemented in each year in accordance with the POA (para. 4.02
(d)).
3.48        Proiect Monitoring and Environmental ImvacL Assessment.  Physical
and financial monitoring of project implementation, and on-going assessment of
project impact, would be carried out through routine supervision by each of
the project executing agencies and by the state Secretariat of Planning
through its PCU/M&E unit and the Federal Government through SDR-PR.
Monitoring and project coordination would be strengthened and information
systems streamlined through technical assistance and training.
3.49        Executing entities would regularly collect and analyze data on key
project indicators to assess progress, compare results obtained with initially
expected target levels, and identify possible problems to be discussed with
SEPLAN/PCU personnel at least on a monthly basis. A quarterly review of
activities would be prepared by each institution and submitted to SEPLAN/PCU.
SEPLAN/PCU, based on the quarterly progress reports, would conduct a technical
review before presentation to the State Project Council. During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that, based on the regular quarterly
agency reports, State Council proceedings, and ad hoc reports on specific
subjects carried out during project implementation, it would produce every six
months project progress reports, and that copies of these semi-annual and
annual progress reports would be sent to the Bank, through the SDR-PR, no
later than three months after the end of each semester/fiscal year (para. 4.02
(e)). The semi-annual reports would: (i) describe the progress, or the lack
of progress, in project execution and the degree of success in implementing
agro-ecological policy; and (ii) identify possible implementation problems and
describe plans to resolve them. These reports would be analyzed by Bank
supervision missions.
3.50        Lessons learned from the previous POLONOROESTE projects indicate
that there is a need to strengthen the monitoring and supervision of projects
which have significant human or physical environmental consequences.
Therefore, in addition to Federal Government/Bank supervision missions, a mid-



- 29 -
term review and final assessment of the project at the time of completion
(PCR), an Independent Evaluation Committee would be invited yearly to monitor
the environmental and social performance of the project. The Federal and
State Governments provided assurances during negotiations, that: (i) a mid-
term review of the project would take place through an exchange of views among
the Bank, the Borrower and the State, no later than June 30, 1995, on the
basis, inter alia, of a report by the Borrower submitted to the Bank at least
30 days prior to the review (para. 4.02 (f) (ii)); (ii) each year the State
would invite an Independent Evaluation Committee to monitor the implementation
of the environmental policy and regulatory reforms undertaken in connection
with the project, the compatibility of annual Federal and State investment
programs in Mato Grosso with the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning
and the impact of the project in the State; the composition of the Committee
would include representatives of relevant local Brazilian Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs); and the findings of the Committee would be made
available to the Bank by June 30, 1993, and by June 30 of each year thereafter
(para. 4.01 (j)); and (iii) A final assessment of the overall project
implementation performance would be carried out within six months after the
project completion date (para. 4.02 (f) (iii)).
3.51        In the past, monitoring activities have placed an excessive
administrative burden on field staff, in particular, through the use of
multiple repetitive questionnaires and frequent visits of various
institutions. Under the project, information requirements would be
streamlined, and requests for statistical information on project progress and
developments in the field would be channelled through the management staff of
the participating agencies and the PCU. During negotiations, the Borrower
provided assurances that by September 30, 1992, it would furnish to the Bank
for review draft performance indicators and operating procedures for the M & E
of project activities, and by December 31, 1992, would adopt indicators and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.02 (f) (i)). These activities
and project M & E during implementation would be supported by technical
assistance. The Government has already entered into an agreement with UNDP to
field a team of six sectoral technicians and one administrative assistant
which would strengthen the SEPLAN/PCU capacity in monitoring and evaluation
through "on the job training" of the PCU technicians. The above technicians
would be locally recruited according to UNDP rules and regulations. Finally,
since the main measure of success of the various project interventions would
be their effectiveness in reducing the rate of deforestation in Mato Grosso,
the project would provide for the establishment of a forest cover monitoring
unit within SEPLAN-MT (para. 3.23).
3.52        Accounts and Auditing.  Each of the federal and state implementing
agencies would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which
would be audited annually by independent private or public auditors acceptable
to the Bank. This audit report would also convey the auditor's opinion and
comments as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the
Statements of Expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to
the foregoing. The Special Account to be opened for this project would be



- 30 -
audited by independent auditoru satisfactory 'o the Bank (para. 3.62). During
negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances thats
(a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be established,
maintained and audited annually according to standards and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, detalled procedures for the examination and verification
of the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) of the project accounts; and
(c) copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 4.02 (g)).
Proiect Costs
3.53        The total project cost, lncluding taxes, physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$285.7 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$55.3 million, or about 19% of the total cost (Loan and Project
Summary and Annex 6). Project baseline costs amount to US$241.9, including
$11.7 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingencies of US$15.2
million, or about 6% of total baseline cost, have been estimated at 10% for
civil works, 15% for road construction, 10% for equipment and furniture,
vehicle maintenance costs and personnel field allowances. Price contingencies
of US$28.6 million or 12% of baseline cost were includr.d and are based on
estimated international inflation rates of 3.9% p.a. t-rough 1997. It was
assumed that periodic currency adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power
parity basis, would compensate for differences between the rates of the US
dollar and local currency inflation. Recent experience indicates that this
assumption may not be valid in some cases; increases in local currency costs
for civil construction over some of the last years have exceeded the rate of
devaluation of the local currency. Therefore, project costs would be
carefully monitored throughout the project implementation period. In the
event that this trerd continues, it would become necessary for the Government
to finance these cost overruns, and the Bank, if needed, would reduce its
disbursement percentages to maintain participation through project completion.
Financina Plan
3.54        The proposed Bank loan of US$205.0 million would finance 75% of
total project costs net of taxes, or 72% of costs including taxes (Annex 6,
Table 6.4, and Loan and Project Summary). The share of Bank financing is
justified because of the strong environmental focus of this operation.
Significant policy actions have already been undertaken in preparation for the
project, to which commitment is high at both Federal and State levels.
However, the severe fiscal situation in the country also makes it difficult at
this point in time to carry out the kinds of environmental initiatives planned
under the project because the benefits, although substantial in economic
terms, would materialize only in the long term and largely in the form of
foregone losses. The proposed share of Bank financing would also help to
reduce implementation risks caused by inadequate or untimely counterpart
funding. Counterpart funds would be provided by the Federal (US$40.7 million
or 14% of costs including taxes) and State Governments (US$40.0 million or 14%
of costs including taxes). The Bank loan would finance 100% of foreign
exchange costs and 65% of local costs. It would be repayable over 15 years,



- 31 -
including a five-year grace period. The Federative Republic of Brazil would
be the Borrower of the loan and would assume the foreign exchange risk. To
enable the early start-up of project activities, retroactive financing would
be provided up to a maximum of US$20.5 million in respect of eligible project
expenditures incurred in between the end of project appraisal (October 1991)
and loan signing, expected in mid-1992.
Procurement
3.55        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrancements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
TOTAL
Category                   ICB          LCB       OTHER         NBF        COST
Civil Works                17.6        41.5          6.0 I/      -          65.1
(12.7)      (29.9)       (4.3)         -        (46.9)
Equipment, Machinery,       9.0        20.5          4.2         0.5 2/    34.2
Vehicles ar.d Furniture    (6.5)      (14.8)        (3.0)        -         (24.3)
Contractual Services       17.3 L/    12.8           1.0         -          31.1
(17.3)      (12.4)       (0.7)                  (30.4)
Technical Assistance,       -           -           22.2         -         22.2
Training and Studies                               (22.2)                  (22.2)
Salaries and Benefits       -           -           58.0         -         58.0
(16.8)                 (16.8)
Other Operating Costs       -           -           41.0         -         41.0
(39.8)                 (39.8)
Investment Credit           -           -          34.1          -         34.1
(24.6)                 (24.6)
TOTAL                      43.9        74.8        166.5         0.5      285.7
(36.5)      (57.1)     (111.4)         -       (205.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts expected to be financed by
the Bank.
1/    Includes only materials for small civil works to be executed under force
account.
2/    Computer equipment to be acquired as reserve procurement item and not to
be financed under the proposed Bank loan.
3/    Aerial photography and land zoning operations.



- 32 -
3.56        Civil works would include road paving and rehabilitation, well
perforation and buildings. Road paving contracts exceeding US$5.0 million
would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following
Bank procurement guidelines. For road rehabilitation, well perforation and
buildings, because of the dispersed nature and relatively small size of most
of these works, and for which the largest single contract is not expected to
exceed US$5.0 million, i.. is unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested. Accordingly, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be used, although interested foreign bidders
would be allowed to participate. For all componerts other than roads, force
account would be permitted for very small works which cannot be grouped into
c ntracts of at least US$150,000, provided the aggregate value of such works
does not exceed US$6.0 million. For these works, the Bank would finance only
the cost of materials. Total civil works procurement under the project would
be US$65.1 million, of which about US$17.6 million would be procured through
.CB and about US$42.5 million through LCB.
3.57        Contracts for goods ex-eeding US$500,000 for a cumulative total of
US$9.0 million, would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICE) following Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts for goods and
equipment expected to cost between US$25,000 and US$500,000, and long-term
helicopter and light aircraft leasing and maintenance contracts, not exceeding
an aggregate amount of US$20.5 million, would be procured under LCB. Office
equipment, furniture, and other similar goods required by several of the
executing agencies over the project implementation period, estimated to cost
less than US$25,000 per contract, would be awarded on the basis of evaluation
of price quotations invited from at least three suppliers in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided they do not exceed an aggregate
amount of US$4.2 million. Computer equipment manufactured in Brazil and
required by the project, as reserve procurement items, would not be financed
under the proposed loan. With respect to goods and equipment financed under
the investment credit sub-component of the project, since the majority of
these operations are expected to average less than US$1,000-2,000 and no
individual operation would exceed USS50,000, established commercial
procurement practices would be followed.
3.58        Contract services for aerial photography and land zoning
operations amounting to about US$17.3 million, and exceeding US$5.0 million
per contract, would be awarded through ICB, according to Bank procedures.
Other services not expected to exceed US$1.0 million dollar per contract and
US$12.8 million in the aggregate, would be procured through LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant services would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.59        Civil works contracts over US$3.0 million, and contracts for rural
electrification equipment, aircraft leasing and contract services over
US$250,000, would be subject to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid
evaluation, award proposals and final contracts. In total, Bank review would
cover about 60% of the value of contracts financed under the project. During
negotiations, the State and Federal Governments provided assurances that the
above procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 4.01 (k)).



- 33 -
3.60        The Project Implementation Schedule and Estimated Annual
Contractual and Other Payments are summarized in Annex 6, Table 6.6. The loan
closing date would be December 31, 1997.
Disbursements and Special Account
3.61       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against
eligible project expenditures at the rates of: (a) 100% of costs incurred in
the natural resource management and protection sub-components, land zoning,
land regularization, training costs, studies, and Technical Assistance;
(b) 75% of all incremental costs for rural extension, agro-forestry research,
rural credit and project administration at Federal and State level; and
(c) 50% of all socio-economic infrastructure costs and roads paving and
maintenance. Disbursement for civil works not exceeding US$3.0 million,
contracts for goods and equipment below US$250,000, works carried out by force
account and operating expenses would be made against Statements of
Expenditures prepared by the various executing agencies and the PCU and
certified by SDR-PR. Supporting documentation would be retained by the PCU.
Conditions of disbursement would be: (i) for rural credit expenditures, that
the final legal documents establishing FUNDAGRO and a satisfactory FUNDAGRO
operating manual have been presentcd to the Bank; and (ii) for road paving
expenditures, that satisfactory Environmental Impact Assessments, including
mitigating actions, if necessary, had beer presented to the Bank (paras. 3.33,
3.40 and 4.04 (a)-(b)).
3.62       To facilitate Bank disbursement and reduce Government prefinancing
requirements for local currency expenditures, a Special Account would be
opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$15.0 million.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the required
documentation or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Loan disbursements are
expected to be completed within about 5-1/2 years (Loan and Project Summary
and Annex 6, Table 3). The Bank standard disbursement profile for this type
of project is about 8-1/2 years. However, the previous POLONOROESTE project
in Mato Grosso (Ioan 2116-BR) took only 7 years to complete, including a
period of loan suspension of 9 months, related mainly to non-compliance under
another POLONOROESTE project (Loan 2060-BR). Furthermore, the State has now
acquired extensive experience in implementation, reflected in the fact that
during the last year of Loan 2116-BR project performance was good, exceeding
targets in some areas of production and service delivery (see PCR Report No.
9382). Finally, Bank financial participation of 75% of the overall project
costs, excluding taxes, would help to minimize counterpart funding shortages
and delays which have played a large role in past implementation delays.
Consequently, the proposed five and one-half year disbursement pr iiod is
realistic.



- 34 -
Proiect Benefits and Justification
3.63       The main benefits of the project, i.e., reduction of wasteful
deforestation, conservation of biodiversity, protection of the environment and
of indigenous communities' rights do not, for the most part, yield direct
financial returns. Nevertheless, the establishment of conservation units and
state forests would help to preserve the lorewt patrimony and ensure genetic
resources for agriculture, forestry, medical and other scientific and
industrial uses. Because much of the protected area would be on steep
terrain, they would also protect critical watersheds by influencing water
flows and decreasing soil erosion. Project enforcement actions would benefit
the population as a whole by reducing the risk of water pollution and
providing a safer environment. In addition, some 16,000 indigenous people
living on 38 existing reservations and at least nine more to be created would
benefit from increased protection from encroachment, boundary demarcation and
improved health services. Finally, about 32,100 low-income farm families
would benefit directly from the strengthening of technical services in those
areas of the state which allow sustainable agricultural development. A large
part of the rural community in those same areas would also benefit from
4.mproved socio-economic infrastructure and services.
3.64       Farmers' Benefits.  The project technical strategy, which would be
promoted by extension messages based on adaptive research, would stress
adoption of improved cultural and husbandry practices (timing, plant spacing,
and weeding) and modern inputs (seeds, fertilizers and pesticides);
utilization of improved genetic material and certified seeds; improved soil
conservation activities on farmers' fields; and reduction in crop losses due
to improved on-farm storage and drying. Eight illustrative farm models, five
for Zone 2 and three for Zone 3, have been analyzed to verify the returns and
production increases expected to come from the farmers who would adopt the
proposed practices. Average assumed yields at full development are 20% to 40%
below those already being obtained by the most progressive farmers in the area
and are therefore considered to be conservative estimates for the typical
farmer. Overall, the project would support an agricultural development
program which would result in: (a) decreases in the area of annual crops by
34,900 ha and of cotton by 8,500 ha; (b) diversification with perennial crops
on about 47,300 ha; and (c) enrichment of 20,000 ha of secoadary growth/forest
follow. The additional output from the project would represent only a
relatively small share of total domestic production of these crops, and no
significant marketing problems or price effects are foreseen.
3.65       At present, the average family income of project beneficiaries is
estimated at an equivalent of about USS1,930/year. It is projected that this
would increase to an average of about US$5,155/year at full development,
reprenenting an increase of 170% over the present level. This level would be
sufficiently attractive for the farmers to adopt the technical strategy
encouraged by the project. The returns to labor would increase from
US$7.4/worker-day to US$11.9/worker-day.  The estimated financial rates of
return of the models vary from 13% to more than 50% for the various farm
models.



- 35 -
3.66       Economic Return to Aaricultural Pevelooment.  An economic rate of
return has been estimated only for the agricultural development component.
The cost stream used in the economic evaluation of productive agricultural
activities included: (a) all on-farm incremental investment and operating
costs (based on the phased aggregation of the different farm models);
(b) off-farm investments and incremental operating cost for agricultural
extension, storage and drying facilities, and access roads, and 30% of the
cost of project coordination and management; and (c) recurrent costs of
services and maintenance of infrastructure after the five years of project
implementation. The benefits of the agricultural development component would
be the increased production generated by 20,200 low-income farm families
(estimated to adopt the proposed practices) presently living in Zones 2 and 3.
The benefit stream used in the economic rate of return analysis includes all
the incremental production (and reduced losses) that these farmers would be
expected to achieve.
3.67       The prices used in the economic analysis for internationally traded
commodities have been estimated on the basis of World Bank price projections,
which were brought to farmgate to take into account transport, handling and
insurance costs. All other commodities are valued at farmgate prices. Labor
was priced at the on-going market wage adjusted by a standard conversion
factor of 0.80. Brazil is also a net importer of fertilizer for which a
similarly adjusted border price was calculated. Physical contingencies at 15%
for roads construction, 10% for buildings, office equipment and furniture, and
vehicles running costs and personnel field allowances have been added to
costs. Any transfer payments such as duties and taxes were excluded from the
costs streams. The local currency portion of the costs has been adjusted by a
standard conversion factor of 0.80. Based on these assumptions the ERR was
estimated at 15%. To measure the impact of possible changes in the project's
benefits and costs streams, several sensitivity tests were conducted to
reflect possible variations in output and prices. However, even under the
most conservative assumption (total costs increased by 20%), the ERR was still
about 13%. Finally, the ERR was calculated assuming that only 50% of roads
costs are directly related to the agricultural development component of the
project, which resulted in a slightly higher 18% return.
3.68       Employment Benefits.  The proposed project would improve the
incomes and living standards of those families who are already in the project
area on existing holdings, without having to migrate to other areas. It is
estimated that the development of perennial crops in the project area would
create requirements for approximately an additional 17,000 fully employed
laborers per year at full development, of which about 19% would be provided by
hired labor. In addition, the economic activities generated by the
incremental agricultural production would increase the number of job
opportunities in the intermediary processing industries.
3.69       Fiscal Imoact.  While the long-term fiscal impact of the project
would be positive, this is not likely to be the case during the years
immediately following project completion. Total recurrent costs in project
year 5 (i.e., the final year of project implementation) would be about US$18.0
million, equivalent to approximately 5% of the total 1990 State budget. By



- 36 -
full development (project years 12-15), selected project activities should
provide the State with annual incremental tax revenues at least sufficient to
cover that amount. These revenues would derive from the federal tax on the
circulation of goods (ICM) that would apply to the incremental marketable
production, and they would be retained by the State Treasury and
municipalities. However, in the first years after project completion, there
would probably be a negative gap, and the State may require continued fiscal
support from the Federal Government for a few years. To a certain extent,
such support would be justified given that most of the deforestation and othe_:
natural resource degradation in Mato Grosso over the last ten to fifteen years
has been caused by migration from other parts of Brazil.
Proiect Risks
3.70       Inadequate knowledge of the State's natural resources led to the
occupation of some lands with little or no sustainable potential, accompanied
by rapid deforestation and resource depletion. However, given current
technical knowledge, particularly the availability of agro-ecological zoning,
the prospects for achieving sustainable development, and environmental
protection, in Mato Grosso are much better. The Government's commitment to
comply with the zoning recommendations in its investment programming would
reduce the risk of continued occupation of areas without sustainable
potential.
3.71       The project would support the identification, creation and border
demarcation of conservation units and indigenous reserves. However, such
measures would not, by themselves, be sufficient to prevent illegal
encroachment and deforestation of these areas. Protection of environmentally
fragile areas in Mato Grosso has been weak in the past, both because of the
economic and financial incentives framework which often encouraged use of
those areas, and because of the State's limited enforcement capacity and
inadequate knowledge of the situation in the field. Various environmental
policy and regulatory reforms which the Government has taken in the last few
years and other being undertaken in preparation for this project should help
to redress the basic incentives/disincentives problems. Those project
activities designed to intensify land use in suitable areas and to develop
sustainable forms of extractive production in areas which should remain under
forest cover would also help to reduce pressure on the forests by small,
shifting cultivators. Finally, the environmental protection subcomponent
would strengthen the institutional capacity of key agencies to enforce the
State's environmental policies and legislation and to protect the borders of
its conservation unite and reserves. The field information system would also
be strengthened and supplemented by the use of satellite imagery, permitting
immediate detection of forest burning and other forms of invasion. However,
given the extensive areas to be protected, it must be recognized that even
these measurec may not eliminate all illegal activities during the project
period.
3.72       The Mato Grosso EAP would be maintained throughout the project
period, and would address the most important known causes of environmental
degradation in Mato Grosso. However, there is always a risk that



- 37 -
unforeseeable factors could undermine the impact of these reforms. For
instance, unexpected weather or economic problems in other parts of Brazil
could once again accelerate spontaneous migration to the Northwest Region.
Unanticipated diseases could undermine the viability of some important
agricultural and agro-forestry activities in those parts of the State which
are currently capable of sustaining production. To mitigate these risks,
appropriate monitoring and evaluation devices are being put into place at
project start-up; an Independent Evaluation Committee, including NGO
representatives, would convene annually to review progress and recommend
corrective actions or refinements to project strategy as necessary; and a
joint (wvernment-Bank implementation review would be undertaken annually.
3.73       Another possible risk stems from the fact that current fiscal
difficulties in Brazil have led the State Government to place severe
restrictions on etaff recruitment and compensation, which could threaten the
necessary strengthening of Nato Grosso's environmental, land and agro-forestry
institutions. The State Government presented during negotiations a strategy
to ensure that project executing agencies would be able to recruit and retain
qualified technical and managerial staff, and the agreements reached (e.g.,
acceptable personnel plans, providing for recruitment, career development and
adequate remuneration of essential staff) would be closely monitored. The
project also includes considerable technical assistance and staff training to
support the development of key institutions. Also, Bank and Federal
Government supervision of the project would be intensive throughout the
project period (Annex 8).
3.74       Although the potential problems mentioned above should not be
minimized, the alternative of inaction would pose far greater risks.
Accelerated migration to the frontier areas of Mato Grosso and Rond8nia did
not start with POLONOROESTE. Rather, the program was established in 1980 to
try to cope with a process which was already underway: during the 1970s, the
population of these States more than quadrupled, socio-economic problems
increased, deforestation was uncontrolled, and the security and well-being of
the State's indigenous inhabitants were being threatened. POLONOROESTE did
not succeed in reversing these trends during the first few years, but its
accomplishments have been significant. Today, the State and Federal
Governments are far better poised to confront the enormous challenges of
reducing the inflow of migrants to the State and channelling them into
sustainable economic activities. Without active intervention, the continued
uncontrolled spread of low-cost, extensive and itinerant agricultural
production svstems would eventually destroy the remaining natural forests.
The project represents a major new initiative on the part of both the
Government and the Bank to begin to reverse this trend.



- 38 -
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDgTIONS
4.01   During neaotiations, the State of Mato Grosso provided assurances
&tha2
(a)   By June 30, 1994, agro-ecological, soil and topographic maps of the
State of Mato Grosbo would be prepared, in consultation with the
Secretaria de Assuntos Estrat4aicos of the Borrower's presidency,
and furnished to the Bank, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(b)   By September 30, 1992, it would prepare and present to its
Legislative Assembly, for approval, proposed legislation on land
use and on environment, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, and it would take all necessary action to have such proposed
legislation approved by its Legislative Assembly as soon as
possible (paras. 3.12 and 3.16);
(c)   (i) By June 30, 1994, it would establish and thereafter maintain
forest reserves and conservation units in areas identified as
suitable (all unoccupied public lands) through the discriminatory
works carried out in the first year of the project in Zones 5 and 6
of the agro-ecological zoning respectively; and (ii) by June 30,
1995, it would ustablish and thereafter maintain forest reserves
and conservation units in all remaining areas, identified as
suitable (all unoccupied public lands), through the discriminatory
works in Zones 5 and 6 of the agro-ecological zoning, respectively,
provided that the minimum number of forest reserves and
conservation units established by June 30, 1995 would be nine and
16, respectively (paras. 3.15 and 3.18);
(d)   By June 30, 1993, it would prepare, and put into effect thereafter,
a satisfactory plan of action to encourage the management of
privately owned forest areas in Zones 5 and 6, consistent with the
agro-ecological zoning (paras. 3.15 and 3.18);
(e)   By January 1, 1993, and by January 1 of each year thereafter until
project completion, it would prepare and report on the satellite
monitoring of the rate and location of deforestation that occurred
in its territory during the preceding year, and the results would
be made available to the Bank and to the public (para. 3.23);



- 39 -
(f)   (i) it would maintain FUNDAGRO, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and would cause FUNDAGRO to carry out its
operations in accordance with the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) by June 30, 1993, and by June 30
of each year thereafter until project completion, the State would
prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a report evaluating the
performance of FUNDAGRO during the preceding year, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.33);
(g)   It would enter (through SES, SEC, SANEMAT and CODEMAT,
respectively) into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with each municipality in which health, education, water
supply and road rehabilitation programs would be carried out,
before starting such part of the project in each such municipality,
each agreement to contain, inter alia, the obligation of the
municipality to provide the maintenance required for the works
performed under the project, starting one year after its respective
execution (paras. 3.36, 3.37, 3.38 and 3.40);
(h)   It would provide maintenance for the works and equipment included
under the Rural Electrification and Rehabilitation of State Roads
components of the project (paras. 3.39 and 3.40);
(i)   It would maintain within SEPLAN-MT the PCU with satisfactory
organization, structure, functions and staffing (para. 3.45);
(j)   It would invite each year an independent evaluation committee to
monitor the implementation of the environmental policy and
regulatory reforms undertaken in connection with the project, the
compatibility of annual Federal and State investment programs in
Mato Grosso with the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning,
and the impact of the project in the State. The composition of the
committee would include the representatives of relevant local
Brazilian NGOs. It would make the findings of the committee
available to the Bank by June 30, 1993, and by June 30 of each year
thereafter (para. 3.50 (ii));
(k)   Procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.55 - 3.59;
and
(1)   It would maintain the Operating Agreements with the various project
executing agencies throughout the life of the project (para. 3.46).
4.02   Durina neootiations. the Borrower and the State of Mato Grosso
orovided assurances that:
(a)   (i) Policy reforms under the Mato Grosso EAP would be enforced
throughout the duration of the project; (ii) Federal and State
investment programs for Mato Grosso, which currently take into
account land use capabilities, ecological and agro-ecological



- 40 -
zoning considerations, would, at each update thereof, be maintained
consistent with such considerations and compatible with much
zoning; and (iii) by September 30 of each year during the execution
of the project, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment,
any intended update or such investment program for the forthcomlng
year (para. 3.04);
(b)   By no later than December 31, 1992, a study on the feaslbillty of
the enlargement of the existing conservatLon unit located in the
Chacada dos GuimarAes ln Mato Grosso would be carried out; and lf
so recommended by such studles all action necessary to enlarge, and
thereafter maintain as enlarged, such conservation unit would be
promptly taken (para. 3.18);
(e)   The Sarar6 Actlon Plan (to prevent future lllegal occupatlons of
the Sarar4 Indigenous Area and to recuperate the area from any
environmental damages caueed by minlng) would be carried out in
accordance wlth a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22);
(d)   The Borrower would provide to the Bank: (i) by July 15, 1992 and by
July 15 of each year thereafter, the annual budgetary allocation
proposal for the project for the next calendar year; and (LL) for
revLew and comments by November 15, 1992, and by November 15 of
each year thereafter, the draft POA, includlng the physlcal
targets, budget, stafflng, trainlng and procurement targets for
project actlvltles for the next calendar year. It would also
provlde the Bank wlth a copy of the flral budget and POA as soon as
they have been approved, and would take all necessary actions to
ensure that the project is implemented each year ln accordance with
the respectlve POA (para. 3.47);
(e)   Satlefactory project progress reports would be prepared by the
State and furnlshed to the Bank, through the SDR-PR, no later than
three months after the end of each semester of the fiscal year
(para. 3.49);
(f)   (i) By September 30, 1992, the Borrower would furnish to the Bank
for review, draft performance indicators and operating procedures
for the M&E of project actlvlties, and by December 31, 1992, would
adopt indicators and procedures satlsfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.51); (LL) a mld-term revlew of the project would take
place through an exchange of vlews among the Bank, the Borrower and
the State, no later than July 31, 1995, on the basis, lnter alia,
of a report by the Borrower submltted to the Bank at least 30 days
prlor to the revlew (para. 3.50 (i)); and (iii) a flnal assessment
of the overall project implementation performance would be carried
out within 6 months after the project completion date (para. 3.50
(liL)); and



- 41 -
(g)   (i) The Special Account and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according to standards and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for
the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the Statement of Expenditures for
project accounts; and (iii) copies of the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (para. 3.52);
4.03       Conditions of loan effectiveness, if not completed earlier, would
be:
(a)   the signing of the INCRA/State of Mato Grosso agreement mentioned
in para. 3.12;
(b)   completion of removal of all squatters living within the boundaries
of the Zor6 Indigenous area (para. 3.22);
(c)   (i) completion of removal of all miners and other illegal occupants
from within and around the Sarar6 Indigenous Area; and (ii)
presentation to the Bank of a satisfactory plan (The Sarar& Action
Plan) to prevent future illegal occupations of the Sarare
Indigenous Area and to recuperate the area from the environmental
damages caused by mining (para. 3.22); and
(d)   satisfactory staffing of the Project Coordination Unit (para.
3.45), the signing of a satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement between
the Borrower and the State (para. 3.44), and the signing of
satisfactory Operating Agreements between the State and each
project execution agency (para. 3.46).
4.04       Conditions of loan disbursement would be:
(a)   for credit expenditures, presentation of satisfactory evidence of
the establishment of FUNDAGRO and that FUNDAGRO has adopted a
satisfactory Operating Manual (paras. 3.33 and 3.61); and
(b)   for road paving expenditures, presentation of satisfactory
Environmental Impact Assessments, including mitigating actions if
necessary, for the paving of the roads between Araputanga-Jaurd and
Lambadi-Salto do C6u-Vila Progresso (paras. 3.40 and 3.61).
4.05       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$205.0 equivalent with a term
of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
June 1, 1992



BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Main Environmental Policy Issues Measures and Actions
Pmblem Reomble for                         Actions Taken Since First Identification   Actions to be Taken                       Moigtorin  Actions and Tins
EnviuxunetaI Deerfdtion                   Mission (October 1988'
I .           eIppropria exploitation of  Development of socio-economic-             -       Further detailing of zomng and     -      Completion of agro-ecologiod
area due to absence of zoning      ecological zoning which identifies land           soil maps slc 1:50,OO in                  zoning not later than June 30,
nd bad use controls,               suitabe for stinable development                  Zone 213, 1:250,000 other                  1994.
fiom those which do not have that                 zones of the State.                -      Contimous monitoring of
poial or which have special               -       Enforcement of zoning.                    complance with zoning by
ecological or social (Indigens                                                              executing agncies by men of
eerves) significance and need to be                                                         satelite imagery to detec
prtcted. State Law of May 1992                                                              illegal defotation and
legalizig the agro-ecologica zoning.                                                        ecroachment.
-      Continuous enforcemeat of
zoning by Stat Forest
Polie/NlTERMAT/FEMA.
-      Yeady independ  review of
compla nce with zoning.
Results available to Bank by
May 30 each year.
2.     Increased deforesion by             lNCRA agreemet with the State of          -       Enforcement by State Forestry      -       Decrease in deforestation and
settlen tying to gain title to     Mato Groso, not recogniig                         Police - FEMA.                             small-scde gold mining, as
land since ad regubtions           deforestation as evidence of land          -      Envimentd legislation to be                monitored annually by FCR
require deforstation as            occupation for titling purposes in the            presented to Stat Legisative               and FEMA.
evidence of bad occupancy/         context of Mato Grosso's agro-                    Asembly by Septmber 1992.
development; deforestation in      ecological zoning law of May 1992.         -      FEMA to prepare susined
areas without sudainable           Stateeromentl legislation, under                  managemeno plan for Zone5
development potential and          prpartion, to control deforestation and           areas and a pln of icentives
illega deforeation; nd wild        mining in the State.                              for private forest a-  to be
cat gold mining.                                                                     completed during Year 1.
3.     Weak capability at State level      Preparation by State of a draft land             kLn  gislation to be                -      No new seulements, no new
with respect to development        legisation and regulations determining            presented to State Legislative             titling of land in areas that do
ad enforcement of lad policy       NITERMMATINCRA compiance with                     Assembly by September 30,                  not have sustinable
and contwl of land occupation.     r        afions of zoning.                        1992.                                      development po al as
Implemenitation of land                   identified by zoning.
legistion and regulatios           -      Annual joint BankIGoven,-ent     lb
together with INCRA (draft                review of proj  pre PM               >
agreement to be presented at!                                                F
ncgotiations) to ensue hat all                                             0
land activities in the State are
consident with bocio-
econom-eologicd zoning.



-43-                       ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Idt                  til   'ii:*i
~Th  s*l                          1   107igi
p                SIJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
iE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
a a 3~55113                         H   *lt 
, ~ ~~~~~                            I
t    1iS-   'j                          11.0s
Elgl.[            1} 1jI



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Management. Protection and Monitorina
Background
1.          Mato Grosso contains the headwaters of two very large river basins,
the Amazon (which includes the Araguaia River Basin) and the Paraguay. Also
within its boundaries are parts of the world's largest contiguous wetlands, the
Pantanal and the Amazon, and part of the world's most biologically diverse
savannah - the Cerrado. Development in the state, particularly agricultural
development, has been based on extensive cultivation, with little concern for
sustainable land use. As a result the ecological balance of all three important
ecosystems is today threatened. Current environmental legislation, if enforced,
could do much to arrest deforestation, gold mining, pollution and other
environmentally harmful activities. With regard to biodiversity, there are few
significant protected areas in the S,tate, and the creation of conservation units
is hampered by the chaotic land ienure situation (according to the State's Land
rnstitute - INTERMAT - titles have been granted for more than 104% of the State's
territory).
2.          Sound environmental maragement,  conservation and protection is
essential for sustainable development. The environmental sector of Mato Grosso
needs urgent technical and financial assistance to adequately provide such
services. Awareness of environmental issues within the public and private sectors
of Mato Grosso is quite low and the viability of long-term sustainable practices
has yet to be demonstrated. This points to the need for Mato Grosso's public
service and their private counterparts to jointly educate the state's leaders and
citizens.
3.          The design of the project is based on finding solutions to those
problems which are most detrimental of the state's natural resource base, while
also providing the misusers with education and options for shifting into more
sustainable uses.   Given the high unemployment and underemployment in Mato
Grosso, and the lack of good unoccupied land on which to "homestead", people
need, more than ever, assistance in utilizing the resources they currently
exploit in the most productive and environmentally benign ways possible, while
also improving their standard of living. There is also a tremendous need to
establish some protected areas in order to preserve to the maximum extent
possible the state's rich biodiversity, and to foster better management systems
in other areas which are not within the state's domain and which the state cannot
afford to purchase.
Obiectives and Scons
4.          The environmental management, protection and monitoring activities
will collectively: establish a state system of nine ecologically important



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
protected areasl establish forest reserves on public lands and foster sustainable
forest management practices on private lands; require and assist gold miners to
alter their extractive practices, reclaim degraded areas, and improve their
standard of living; build community support for conservation and sustainable land
use in the state, public environmental education, and work with other local,
state and national programs to ensure that the citizen receive the necessary
tools to conserve and sustainably utilize their resources; improve law
enforcement, monitoring, licensing and control of illegal activities using
satellite imagery, on the ground monitoring and aerial surveys; and build a
strong state conservation agency which works effectively with other state
agencies and non-governmental groups working on state conservation issues, and
which services the environmental needs of Nato Grosso.   The specific sub-
components are described below.
5.          Forestry Conservation and Sustainable Manacement.  The preliminary
agro-ecological zoning for Mato Grosso identified nine areas (Zone 5) which
should be maintained or managed as State Forests. INTERKAT will research the
titles/land ownership situation in all Zone 5 areas.   Public lands will be
decreed and established as State Forest Reserves and 3ubsequently FEMA's Forestry
Division will prepare guidelines and a strategy for these reserves management;
FEMA will also prepare management plans for some privately held production areas.
Presently, all forestry activities and mineral extraction are subject to control
by federal institutions only, but the State has drafted its own environmental
legislation which, after final review by the Bank, will be presented to the State
Legislative Assembly by September 30, 1992. Outside of the nine State Forest
Reserves, the new legislation will enable the state to enforce, license and
control the use of forestry resources.
6.          In preparing the management plan for each State Forest Reserve, an
overall study of the RFE will be done, all forestry types will be described and
mapped, an overall administrative management plan will be created, and homogenous
subdivisions of the RFEs will be delineated. Based on a detailed vegetation and
soil map of the RFEs, silvicultural inventory and detail description for selected
subdivisions In the RFEs will be produced and management plans prepared for these
areas. Limited experimentation will be undertaken to test the sustainability of
alternative harvesting techniques, with continual inventory and monitoring
carried out.   This should generate information on future adjustments and
revisions to the management plan. Finally, a manual on sustainable forestry and
agro-forestry would be jointly produced by FEMA and EMPAER.
7.          Mining  Activities  Rationalization.       The  objective  of  this
sub-component is to minimize environmental impacts on Mato Grosso's hydrologic
resources caused by mineral extraction, mainly by small-scale wild cat gold
mining (aarimoaaeml. This will be done by establishing mining standards for gold
miners and through licensing and monitoring (based on existing federal and state
legislation), and regulating those standards. This project will assist the gold
miners, the municipal prefects and appropriate organizations through the
I      Support to indigenous communities is discussed in Annex 4.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
establishment of demonstration projects for mining, and educational programs on
the use and adaptation of proper (mitigation) technology for extractlon and
reclamation. Social services and financing will be made available to support
these changes.
S.          By  December  31, 1992  FEMA will survey  mining  actlvities  Ln
ecologically fragile areas in Mato Grosoc, and by March 31, 1993, the State will
prohibit mining in these fragile areas (as well as in Zones 5,6,7). The location
of these fragile areas will be incorporated into the agro-ecological zoning maps,
which will be published and available for public access.   The Bank has
recommended that the state incorporates mining technicians and materials from the
State Mining Company (METAMAT), which was recently abolished, into the FEMA
program for regulating and managing mining in Mato Grosso.
9.          Conservation Areas. There are currently four significant2 protected
areas in Mato Groeso:
Pantanal National Park                     135,000 ha
Chapada dos Guimaraes National Park         39,000 ha
Serra das Arar&s Ecological Station         28,700 ha
Taiama Ecological Station                   14,225 ha
TOTAL ...                                  216,925 ha
None of these areas is well protected, and the Chapada dos Guimarles National
Park has not yet been decreed. Through the National Environmental Project (Loan
3173-8R), Mato Grosso will support management of Taiama Ecological Station and
Serra das Arar&a Ecological Station, and will demarcate and implement the Chapada
dos Guimaraes National Park.
10.         The preliminary agro-ecological zoning for Mato Grosso delineates the
existing conservation areas, proposes extension to some of these areas and
identifies areas which should be created. The project will support the extension
of the Chapada dos Guimaraes National Park (which will entail adoption of a
decree for a state protected area extension to the federal conservation unit),
and the establishment of eLght other areas targeted to become state conservation
units. Including the Chapada dos Guimarses (state-owned) extension, this should
total 4,847,000 ha.  These areas, in the order of priority for action are as
follows:
1.  Chapada dos GuimarAes             700,W00  ha
2.  Cabeceiras do Rio Cuiab&          300,000 ha
3.  Rio Ronura                        700,000 ha
4.  Serra Ricardo Franco              400,000 ha
5.  Serra de Santa Barbara            800,000 ha
6.  Rio Madeirinha                    800,000 hni
7.  Pantanal do Rio das Mortes        800,000 ha
8.  Serra do Cachimbo                 500,000 ha
9.  Apiacas (Pontal)                  477,000 ha
2      Recently, Ique Ecological Station was transferred to FUNAI to be
protected as an indigenous area.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
11.         These nine areas (out of 16 actvally identified in the zoning) were
chosen for priority attention by the Conservation Data Center in 1989 using the
following criteriat high biological diversity, endemism occurrence, vegetation
representation, headwaters areas, and zones of exceptional characteristics with
regard to geology and geomorphology, paleontology, archaeology and history.
Also, the degree of human intervention in the area and the environmental
integrity were, and will continue to be, factors which weigh into the type of
management and the priority which the area receives with regard to demarcation
and establishment. All 16 areas on the map will be studied by INTERMAT as new
and potential areas for conservation, but INTERMAT will focus on the nine above
order in the order shown.
12.         The following methodology for study/establishment of the nine areas
will be used:
1.    Conservation Unit Team training in park planning and management;
2.    Acquisition of equipment and material necessary for field work;
3.    Permission from IBAMA to collect botanical and zoological specimens
from the area for more accurate identification;
4.    Rapid ecological assessment training at one-site (which will prepare
the team for work at other sites) to assess the current ecological
and socioeconomic situation of the area;
5.    Determination of the conservation unit park limit& and dIiscussion on
the management type most appropriate for the area;
6.    Demarcation of the area;
7.    Preparation of management plan I
8.    Implementation of the management plan and park establishment (which
will include park staff training and hiring, preparing housing and
visitor's centers as necessary, etc.);
9.    Building community orientation and collaboration (this should be
done as early as possible and continued throughout the life of the
project).
13.         Privnte Reserves.  Due to the poor financial state of Mato Grosso,
the state must find ways to secure important protected lands for the state's
genetic stock and heritage. The State of Mato Grisso will present to the Bank
by September 30, 1992 a plan to provide incent.ves to private land owners to
maintain and protect natural (and preferably primary) forests, savannas and
waterways on their land. This strategy would be espacially applicable in zones
5 and 6, yet other possible areas should be considered for their high ecological
importance. All proposals would have to be evaluated by FEMA's technical staff.
14.         Informal Environmental Education.  The public in Mato Grosso needs
to be made more aware of existing environmental problems and their effects, in
order to build community support for conservatIon and sustainable land use in the
State. This proposition is based on the not in that It is imperative that the
citizens understand that they are vital elemt.tts in, say, a watershed ecosystem
(whether it be the Paraguay River watershed, the Amazonia watershed or the
Araguaia) and that their land use practices and development programs have an
impact on that drainage area. Radio and television will be utilized, as well -s
other appropriate means, to comnunicate important and helpful messages. The



- 48 -
ANNEX2
Page 5 of 6
program will start by training and building a competent FEMA education staff.
Their training will be heavily field oriented, so that during training FEMA is
also receiving and cataloguing information about the state's natural resource use
and problems at the municipal level.
15.         One of the fundamental training-field activities will focus on public
attitudes and environmental awareness in the Upper Paraguay River watershed, with
FEMA (and CONSEMA members) preparing a plan of action and major education program
for appropriate land use and recovery in this region.   FEMA's Environmental
Education Team will work with an experienced consultant to achieve the following
objectives under the project: (a) identify community leaders and influential
policy makers in the majority of the municipalities of the Upper Paraguay River
Basin; (b) catalogue conservation NGO's; (c) catalogue membership institutions
and associations and their objectives related to land use and development in the
region; (d) identify the important means of communication throughout the
watershed; (e) collect and disseminate information on projects in the region; (f)
identify the principal socio-environmental problems in the Upper Paraguay River
watershed of Mato Grosso; and (g) prioritize actions according to their political
and economic importance, size, geographic location, and ecological problems.
This process will call upon the use of existing data and people with diverse
expertise. The plan of action will also include measures for program evaluation
and decentralization (sub-contracting) of groups to help carry out the action
plan. The initial focus is on the most densely populated areas of Upper Paraguay
River watershed in Mato Grosso, however other important areas in the other two
watersheds will be included once the methodology has been firmly established.
FEMA's Environmental Education Department will receive technical assiatance from
a long-term consultant who has had several years experience in fostering
community interest in conservation of natural resources in the neighboring Mato
Grosso do Sul.
16.         Enforcement Activities.  The project will help to establish a system
of licensing and control, monitoring and law enforcement for the state of Mato
Grosso.   In particular, the Forestry Police will be assisted to effectively
protect Zones 5,6 and 7, control illegal deforestation, burning, hunting, fishing
and transport.   The operational strategy includes thorough training for the
Forestry Police and their use of satellite images, helicopters and airplanes for
law enforcement and monitoring. FEMA will also be strengthened and supported to
license and regularly monitor mining, pesticide use and pollution activities.
In an attampt to conserve the hydrological resources of the state, FEMA will
register, license and monitor all industrial activities in the state, and will,
in coordination with those working on the gold mining rationalization
sub-component, map the activities in the Teles Pires River Basin which have an
environmental impact. The licensing work requires that FEMA decentralize and set
up monitoring outposts throughout the state.
17.         Institution Strengthenina.   The Mato Grosso state government is
currently undergoing a reorganization which will affect FEMA and SEMA. A Special
Secretary for the Environment will oversee FEMA, and FEMA will be directly linked
to the Governor's cabinet. As some of the specifics are still being worked out,
flexibility has been incorporated into project planning.



- 49 -
-ANNEXL
Page 6 of 6
18.         There are currently over 110 staff employed at FEMA, many of whom do
not work regularly, while others find it difficult to determine their specific
job responsibilities. At the same time, there are many dedicated individuals who
work diligently on planning of environmental programs, and who will continue to
strive to make FEMA a strong state agency. Nonetheless, the programs which are
presented by the institution are often not well thought out, lack justification,
or are not cohesive in their objectives and methodology.   The project will
therefore, support development of a strategic plan for halting and preventing the
rapid destruction of Mato Grosso's natural resource base and will support
mechanisms for discovery and dissemination of information to the government and
private community on eco-development. To this end, during the first year FEMA
will focus its efforts on strategic planning and determination of the most
efficient and effective manner to implement its decentralization throughout the
state. FEMA will contract a strategic planning firm to rapidly bring to light
many of the questions which the institution should address. In addition, it will
contract two experience staff in human resources development, an ecologist and
two accountants (to work specifically with the project accounts), and will
purchase essential equipment for FEMA's headquarter's in Cuiaba.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Aoro-Forestrv Develooment
Present Aaricultural Production Situation
1.          In the past, much of the land in Mato Grosso was brought under
cultivation by a combination of officially sponsored settlement schemes and
private initiatives, applying low cost, extensive and itinerant production
systems which resulted in unnecessary deforestation and pasture burning. The
majority of the smallholder producers (below 200 ha) in areas where the soil and
climatic conditions are favorable are producing subsistence crops like rice,
maize, beans and manioc, which are treated as cash crops. In the project area,
located in the Northern, Eastern and Southwestern parts of the State, about
400,000 ha is devoted to rice, maize and beans cultivation. Since 1984 cotton
is grown on about 38,000 ha and manioc on about 11,000 ha. Rice and maize yields
have increased by 19% and 32%, respectively, as a result of the increased use of
hybrid seed coupled with higher fertilizer use.  Yields of other crops like
cotton and beans have remained stagnant.
2.          The present agricultural development strategy has not sufficiently
encouraged cultivation of perennial crops because of the lack appropriate
technological support from extension and research, and adequate rural credit.
In the total project area, there are about 133,000 ha of coffee, cocoa, rubber
and banana. Virtually no new areas have been brought under tree crop cultivation
since 1988, and in many locations production has declined because of low yields
in old plantations, inadequate cultural practices, and low prices.  Improved
rubber clones have been planted under improved cultural practices, and their
production prospects are considered promising with projected yields of up to
2,000 kg/ha, (traditional clones have a ceiling of about 1,400 kg/ha). Bananas,
especially the favorite Maca variety, suffer from "panama" wilt and debilitation
from root borers which result in low yield and short life. Citrus, which is the
next important perennial crop,  is grown in small areas and is free of the
serious "decline" disease. Small but lncreasing areas of other perennial crops
are also planted in the project area (papaya, pineapple, Brazil nut, Ammatto,
guarana, black pepper, coconut and others).
Aaro-Forestrv Develooment Procosal
3.          The project would support Government efforts directed at ibtaining
a gradual transformation of the extensive agricultural system to a permanent
sustainable system in the Northern fragile areas of the State (Zone 3), and the
intensification of agricultural production in the Southern fertile soils
(Zone 2). The main objective of the component would be to recuperate the vast
area currently under fallow in Zones 2 and 3 through a productive exploitation
system by providing farmers with an effective practical option for



- 51 -
Page 2 of 3
diversification, reducing the pressure on forest clearing, and training farmers
in better soil and fallow management. The component would, therefore, involve:
(a) the diversification of the existing crop mix by promoting viable new crops,
including timber trees; (b) the development of mixed cropping/intercropped
systems (consorciol; (c) the introduction of crop rotation techniques; and in
order to reduce the pressure on expansion to existing forest areas, support for
the expansion of the cropping area to the oxisting fallow or abandoned pasture
land; and (d) initiation of a program of fallow enrichment.
4.          The fallow enrichment program would comprise of three basic lines of
action: (a) introduction on already cultivated land of consorcios of short
maturing crops (for example banana/papaya) or long maturing with short maturing
crops (for example cupuacu/maracuja and rubber/banana); (b) recuperation of
degraded lands with timber species or long maturing fruit crops (pupunha); and
(c) enrichment of capoeira with consorcios of long maturing timber species
("capoeira melhorada" teak and pinho cuiabano).   While the introduction of
consorcios in already cultivated land is relatively well known among farmers, the
introduction of timber species in degraded land or the enrichment of capoeira is
not advanced. However, by using appropriate fallow management and enrichment
techniques (i.e., proper cropping mix, soil enriching shadow trees, and proper
inter-planting of shadow and timber trees) it would be less expensive for the
farmers to clear forest fallow land than to clear natural forest, while still
maintaining good soil fertility. Additional incentives to the small farmer to
use fallow rather than natural forest land will include the possibility of
preparing the land for animal traction, which is very important for the small
farmer, and the timely inter-planting of trees and planting of hedges for
mulching.   Lack of adequate technical assistance, agricultural research and
credit have prevented the dissemination of these practices, which could improve
crop yields and are sustainable over time (in contrast to deforestation of new
land, where soil fertility decreases after only a few years).
Research on Forestry and Aqro-Forestrv
S.          Research on forestry and agro-forestry in Mato Grosso has been
traditionally neglected in favor of adaptation and selection of annual crop
varieties, fertilizer levels and other cultivation technique. Only during the
last four years has EMPA-MT (now EMPAER) started to work on perennial crops such
as rubber, coffee, banana, other tree crops and timber species. However, there
is still an acute lack of research on sustainable agro-forestry, re-forestation
and recuperation of degraded lands. For these reasons the project would support,
within the general objectives of the research sub-component, specific research
activities on financially and ecologically sound farmer systems, emphasizing tree
crop diversification, agro-forestry and re-forestation. The forestry research
program would be subdivided into enrichment planting in secondary forest (tree
fallow), regeneration of degraded areas, and re-forestation with plantation
timber. As part of the agro-forestry research, cons6rcios of short and long
duration perennial species will be intercropped in their early years with annual
crops.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
6.          Since both agro-forestry and forestry research  involve costly
pluri-annual experiments, only basic evaluation of species would be carried out
on-station. All other work, such as technology validation trials (TVTs), will
be carried out on-farm and wouvld later be used for demonstration and training
purposes. Under the project a total of 16 trials on species will be conducted
(11 for forestry and 5 for ag.ro-forestry) and 352 TVTs (46 forestry and 306
agro-forestry) will be done.
7.          In the Northern Reaion of the State there would be a heavy reaearch
emphasis on sustainable small farming systems employing agro-forestry and re-
forestation techniques, secondary forest management, regeneration of degraded
areas, and future tree crop diversification to widen market potential.   The
research stations of Juina and Alta Floresta would focus mainly on agro-forestry
and forestry research, while the station in Sinop would carry out agro-forestry,
forestry (including seed technology) and agricultural research focusing on
systems for Zone 3 soils. The Sinop station would house the Forestry Seed Bank
(funded under the extension budget) and part of the facilities would be available
for seed technology research.
S.          In the Southern Reaion more emphasis will be placed on rubber (S&o
Jos6 do Rio Claro and Canarana), citrus and bananas (Rondonopolis, Caceres,
Quatro Marcos), which have already developed markets, and fruits such as avocado,
mango, pineapple and others which can be produced out-of-season.   Forestry
research in the South will focus on regeneration of degraded areas, and will be
concentrated in Quatro Marcos in the Southwest and Canarana in the Southeast.
Table 1: Suagested Fruits and Forestry Species to be Utilized
Short Maturina Fruits                   Forestry Soecies
Abaxi (Anans sativa)                    Teca (Tectona grandis)
Banana (Musa spp.)                      Ameixa (Protium heptaphyllum)
Mamao (Carica papaya)                   Pinho Cuiabana (Schizolobium)
Maracuj& (Passiflora edulis)            Inga (Inga edulis)
Acerola (Malpighia sp.)                 Frejo (Cordia goeldiana)
Pupunha (Bactris gasipaes) uso multiplo
Lona Maturing Fruits                    Castanheira (Bertholettia)
Cerejeira (Torresa acreana)
Citros (Citrus app.)
Coco Arnao (Cocos nucifera)
Caju Anao (Anacarcium occidentale)
Carambola (Averhoa carambola)
Araca b6i (Psidium spp.)
Capuacu (Theobroma grandiflora)
Manga (Mangifera indica)
Pupunha (Bactris gasipaes) palmito
Urucum (Bixa orellana)



53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sup wrt to Indigenous Communities
Background
1.          Approximately  16,000  indigenous  people  live  in  Hato  Grosso,
accounting for lesa than one percent (0.77%) of the State's estimated (1989)
population of 2,065,000. Two thirds of the State's indigenous population (69%)
live on fully legalized reservations protected by the National Indian Foundation
(FUNAI).  An additional 4,171 indigenous people (26%) live on areas of land
demarcated as indigenous reserves, but not yet fully legalized, while about 5%
live in non-demarcated areas.
2.          Demarcated indigenous areas occupy a total of 9.5 million hectares,
an additional 1.3 million ha has been identified but not yet demarcated, and
about 13 percent of the land officially identified as indigenous land remains to
be demarcatAd. The combined total of 10.8 million ha is equal to roughly 12
percent of the total land area of the state. However, there are still several
indigenous groups in Mato Grosso which are substantially out of contact with
national society. Their numbers and precise locations are unknown. Still other
indigenous people lives on the fringes of the national society as rubber tree
tappers or fishermen. Nearly all the indigenous groups in the state are highly
susceptible to introduced disease, especially respiratory diseases such as
tuberculosis, influenza, pneumonia etc. Malaria, diarrhea, and other preventable
diseases are frequent causes of death, especially among infants.
Government Efforts to Protect Indigenous People
3.          Since 1910, the Indian Protection Service and its successor, FUNAI,
have provided assistance to indigenous groups in the form of reservations,
intermediation with national society, health and educational services. Perhaps
the most important role FUNAI has played is the creation of Reservations for the
exclusive use of indigenous groups. FUNAI is organized at the local, regional
and national level. There are five local administrations (ADRs) in Nato Grosso,
based in Cuiab&, Rondonopolis, Tangara da Serra, Barra do Gargas and Xavantina.
Each ADR has an administrative staff with responsibility for a number of Indian
Posts.   Indian Posts (Postos Indlaenas) are generally located on Indigenous
Reserves and staffed by a FUNAI Agent.
4.          Despite its inefficiency and allegations of corruption, FUNAI has
demarcated a total of 9.5 million ha of indigenous reserves in the State. From
1982 to 1988, the POLONOROESTE Program provided a major impetue and financial
support for the demarcation of 5.7 million ha of indigenous reservations in Mato
Grosso through the Special Amerindian Project. This Project was designed to
protect indigenous people from the negative effects of economic growth following



* 54 -
AKNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
construction of the BR 364 Highway from Cuiab& to Porto Velho. This project wau
part of the POLONOROESTE Program, but financed exclusively by local counterpart
funds at the request of the Brazilian Government.
S.          FUNAI and the POLONOROESTE program were less successful in protecting
indigenous people from disease.   Levels of infectiouo disease on indigenous
reservations are very high.   Mortality is high especially among children.
Regular visits to indigenous reserves by Mobile Health Teams partially supported
under POLONOROESTE have not been maintained. Vaccination programs have not been
kept up to date.   There has been little systematic training of FUNAI health
personnel or indigenous healtn monitors.   In Mato Grosso, FUNAI has only a
handful of full-time health professionals on its staff. Most of the physicians
and nurses are on half-time contracts making it impossible for them to take
entire days to visit the indigenous communities.   Even those on half-time
contracts do not work the full period for which they are paid. In addition, the
pharmacies on Indian Posts are haphazardly stocked, often with inadequate
storage, and not subject to careful controls.
indicenous Sub-Component
6.          The indigenous sub-component is an integral part of the project
agro-ecological zoning and environmental protection program.  It will invest
primarily in providing support to FUNAI and the State of Mato Grosso for actions
aimed at improving health and land security of indigenous peoples in the state.
Consequently, the sub-component will provide for: (a) demarcation and boundary
renewal of indigenous Reserves; (b) assistance to isolated indigenous people in
Mato Grosso; (c) monitoring and enforcement in indigenous Reserves; and
(d) support for health care and disease control.
7.          It is not intended that Bank funding replace FUNAI's regular budgeted
programs in the region, but rather that it support enhancement of a selected
subset of activities. FUNAI has agreed that it would maintain its programs and
funding levels in Mato Grosso, independently of the project. The project will
not assume personnel or ccher FUNAI basic operating costs, nor will it add
significantly to FUNAI's physical infrastructure as have previous special
projects in the POLONORESTE region.
Demarcation and Boundary Renewal
8.          Fully legalized reservations with clearly demarcated boundaries are
essential for the maintenance of secure indigenous reservations in Brazil. There
are 37 demarcated indigenous reserves in Mato Grosso (Table 1). Al Saluma has
been approved for demarcation but has not yet been physically demarcated.  Three
additional reservations were approved for demarcation by the Interministerial
Work Group (Al's Estivadinho, Figueiras, Juininha) and are awaiting only an
interministerial order (gportaria) authorizing their physical border demarcation.
Nine additional areas have been delimited or interdicted by FUNAI, but have not
yet been brought before the Interministerial Work Group. Finally, during the life



55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
of the project, FUNAI will engage, in locating and assessing the needs of several
isolated indigenous groups in Mato Grooso.  It is possible that some of these
groups will be eligible for reservation status.
9.          In order to -support unimpeded access of indigenous people to the
land, the project will support the demarcation of new indigenous reserves and the
renewal of boundaries on existing reservations specifically, it will finance the
boundary demarcation of the various reservations indicated above totalling at
least 1,138,452 ha with 1,424 km of boundaries. As much as possible, the work
will be done with the participation of the indigenous people of each area. The
actual demarcation will be carried out by specialized topographical firms
contracted by FUNAI and accompanied by FUNAI personnel. The State of Mato Grosso
would need to take action to remove non-indigenous people from indigenous land
where they are present, but the project will not finance land purchases or
compensate squatters living illegally on indigenous reservations. The submission
of an acceptable plan for the removal of all illegal squatters on Al Zor6 would
be a condition for negotiation.
Assistance to Isolated Indigenous People
10.         Although the State of Mato Grosso is heavily cettled, with a
considerable network of urban settlements, there are still several isolated
indigenous groups, without regular contact or only sporadic contact with the
national society.   FUNAI has a special unit established to investigate the
location and situation of these groups.  Some of them appear to be located on
existing indigenous reserves,  while others are in areas not under FUNAI
protection. The latter groups will receive priority attention by FUNAI. The
project will equip and support four teams, adding two new teams to the two now
in existence. These teams will work in the field, setting up base campa for the
purpose of learring as much as possible about the isolated groups, fending off
non-indigenous settlers, prospectors, etc., and making contact if necessary.
They will bring health services to the isolated indigenous people and attempt to
provide vaccination and other services as soon as feasible.   As their work
evolves, these teams will identify areas traditionally used by these isolated
groups and, where appropriate, set procedures in motion to demarcate indigenous
lands. The indigenous component will finance acquisition of equipment, supplies,
per diem for field teams as well as construction of base camps in the Juina area
where many of the isolated groups are located.
Monitorina and Enforcement of Indicenous Reserves
11.         One of the persistent problems on indigenous reserves in this region
is the entrance of unauthorized non-indigenous people as squatters, loggers,
prospectors for gold and other minerals, rubber tappers, hunters and fishermen.
FUNAI has inadequate resources for monitoring and protecting the indigenous
reserves.   It has few vehicles, little use of aircraft, and only incipient
arrangements for cooperation with Federal and State enforcement agencies.
12.         Therefore, FUNA1 has signed an agreement with IBAMA and the Military
Police to collaborate in monitoring and enforcement on indigenous lands.  A



- 56 -
Page 4 of 6
special division of the State Military Police will be responsible for monitoring
and enforcement of the zoning laws, together with the Federal Environmental
Agency (IBAMA). The State of Mato Grosso has enacted a law raising the forestry
police from battalion to company strength, with a total of over 600 staff. Under
the project, the Military Police Forestry Battalion will receive support in the
form of aircraft, technical assistance, communications equipment, etc. for use
in stepped up enforcement activities. In particular, the Police will set up a
monitoring Eystem capable of detecting incursions into protected land (including
indigenous reserves) by sawmills.   The police will also have jurisdiction over
prospecting on protected areas, as well as activities, such as prospecting, that
may contribute to the pollution of waterways flowing through indigenous areas and
other protected areas.
13.         FUNAI itself will receive support under the project in the form of
vehicles, watercraft, communications equipment, training and operating expenses
for two mobile units, one based in Cuiaba, another in Juina. In addition, the
project will support construction and equipping of a fixed support unit in Juina,
an area undergoing rapid economic expansion and strategically located near number
of indigenous areas. The fixed station will help to coordinate monitoring and
enforcement activities with the military police detachment planned for this
locality.   It will also serve as a logistics and communications hub for
activities relating to isolated indigenous reserves in the same region, health
activities (Juina is also the site of a state hospital facility under
construction), and regular services to indigenous areas in the vicinity.
Health Care and Disease Control
14.         The key to improving the health of indigenous people in Mato Grosso
is to return the focus of prevention and primary care to the indigenous
community. Thio means upgrading the facilities and retraining personnel at the
Indian Post level, providing for regular visits by health personnel to the
indigenous villages for preventive and curative care. The mission determined
that it would be counterproductive to invest further in the casas do indio as
health-care facilities, because it would continue to divert indigenous people
needing care away from their own communities.
15.         However, returning the focus of health care to the community will not
be sufficient.   Secondary and tertiary care facilities must continue to be
provided.   Since FUNAI does not have sufficient personnel and resources to
provide quality hospital care and diagnostic services, and the potential patient
population is not large or concentrated enough to warrant substantial investment
in these services, FUNAI has reached an agreement with the State of Nato Grosso
for the latter to assume more responsibility for hospital care and diagnostic
services. Since the State of Mato Grosso itself lacks an extensive hospital
network, it subsidizes admissions by indigenous people to private hospitals
through AIH (Authorizations for Hospital Admissions) under the Federal Health
System.  In some cases, FUNAI has had difficulty getting indigenous patients
admitted to State subsidized hospitals.



- 57 -
ANNEX4
Page 5 of 6
16.         The agreement between FUNAI and the State of Mato Grosso provides for
(a) an increase in the number of AIHs, (b) an allocation of a specific number of
beds in a State Hospital, (c) training and recycling for health professionals
involved in caring for indigenous people, (d) additional health professionals to
be contracted by the State and seconded to FUNAI, and (e) cooperation by the
State Health Department in the coordination and evaluation of the indigenous
component of the PRODEAGRO.   Under item (d), the State Health Department would
contract physicians and nurses in various locations on fixed-term contracts where
FUNAI lacks sufficient manpower. These professionals would be hired on a full-
time, exclusive basis and would be made available to FUNAI as needed to work on
mobile health teams in the indigenous communities. There would be special ealary
supplements to equalize any differences between state and FUNAI salaries. This
provision must clearly obligate medical personnel to field assignments and would
be subject to careful supervision.  The contrects would be canceled if such
personnel did not lend themselves to work in indigenous communities.
17.         Support will be provided for upgrading FUNAI's medical personnel.
This will be accomplished by means of recycling for FUNAI's nursing assistants
(atendentes de saude), nurses aides (auxiliares de enfermacem), nurses and
doctors. FUNAI has agreed to create the post of Head Nurse in accordance with
existing legislation that requires this structure. The head nurse, rather than
physicians, will be responsible for programming, staff assignments and
supervision of field staff. FUNAI's field staff will be reassigned from urban
sites to locations on indigenous reserves.   Resources will be allocated to
improve communications between villages, Indian Posts, and regional centers, by
the acquisition of solar recharged batteries, and additional radio transceivers.
Living accommodations for health personnel stationed in the field will be
upgraded.
18.         There will also be a major upgrading of the pharmacy facilities and
practices in FUNAI health facilities.   Specialized consultants will be brought
in to design a standard list of pharmaceuticals for Indian Posts and other
facilities.   The project will support implementation of adequate storage
facilities plus proper inventory and control systems. A medical information
system will be developed through the purchase of microcomputers, development of
procedures, and training. In addition, FUNAI and CAIEMT will also carry out a
survey of health facilities and health conditions in the indigenous reservations
administered  by  religious missions.    These  areas  will  be  eligible  for
participation in the project to the extent feasible and necessary.



-58-
ANNE2; 4
Page 6 of 6
Table 1
DEMARCATED tNDIGENOUS AREAS IN NATO GROSSO
Al                          ETWW!C                 Pop AREA(XA) P6MR z9oo DEL GR  DM0C NML CR1 SPU
APIAKA/KAIABI              APIAKA, KAIABI          248   109245 162  99   0  87  87  99  88  88
ARIPUANA                   CINTA LARGA             107    75649 565  99   0  85  85   0   0   0
BAKAIRI                    BAKA RI                461    61405 135  99   0  85  85  91  61  87
CCPOTO/JARINA              KAYA;O                  217   634915 415  99   0   0  99  99  87  87
JAPUIRA                    RIK3AKTSA               90   152509 193  99   0  85  88   0   0   0
JARUOORE                   SCRCRO                   0     4706  39  99   0   0  99  99  87  87
KARECHAL RONOCN            XAVANTE                 235    98500 200   0   0   0  99   1   0   0
MENrJ                      MYKY                     35    47095  92  99  74   0  77  99  87  87
MERURI                     B-R0RO                  402    82301 169  99   0   0  99  99   0  87
NAMISI KJARA               NAMSIKWARA             249  1011961 533  99  83  84  84  99  87  87
PARABU8URE                 XAVANTE                2543   224447 294  99   0   0  99  91  87  87
PARECI                     PARC1d                  578   563587 373  99  68   0  84  91  87  87
PERIGARA                   SCRCRO                   71    10740  62  99   0   0  99   0   0   0
PIMENTEL BARBOSA           XAVANTE                 754   32S966 340  99   0   0  86  99  88  87
PIRINEUS 0E SOUZA          NAMS3KWARA              135    28212  83  99  81  99  83  85  84   0
R!K3ATSA                   CANCEIROS              630    79935 198  99   0  86  83  99  87  87
RIO FORMOSO                PARES;                   79    19747  90  99  85  85  86  99  99  99
SANGRAOORO/VOLTA GRANDE   6CRCRO, XAVANTE         546   100250 208  99   0   0  99  91  83   0
SANTANA                    6AKAIRt                 189    35470 105  99  99  99  84   0   2   0
SAO DCMINGOS               CARAJA                  93      5705  37  99   0   0  88   0   0   0
SAO MARCOS                 XAVANTE                1234   188478 237  99   0   0  73   0   0   0
SARARE                     MANAIRISU                66    67420 132  99  81  84  83  85  85  87
SERRA MORENA               CINTA LARGA             138   147836 184  99  99  85  85   0   0   0
SETE 0E SETEMBRO           SURUI                   461   247270 205  99  99  99  85  85  85  85
TADARIMANA                  CR2-RO                 143     9785  51  99  45  87  85  91  64  87
TAP!RAPE/KARAJA            TAP!RAPE/MARAJA        399    66166 110  99   0   0  99  99  84  87
TEREZA CRISTINA            SCRCRO                  211    26237 134  99   0   0  85   0   0   0
TIRECATINGA                PAR2CI,NAMBI,ME9KU,1  348   180575 208  99  83  86  83  91  87  87,
UMUTINA                    UMlTINA,PARECI,NAMBI  205    29120 122  99  15  86  84   0  60  99
UTIARITI                    PARECI                 117   412304 429  99  83  86  82  91  87  87
VALE 00 GUAPORE            NAMNIKWARA              367   2425i3 552  99  81  84  84  85  85  87
VOLTA GRANDE               XAVANTE                  27    11640  69  99   0   0  87   0   0   0
xNNGU (Pal)                 TXUKARRAMAE,SUYA,MAT 2688  2642003 898  99   0   0  99  99  87  87
ZCRO                       ZCRO                    236   355789 304  99  87  85  87  91  87  87
TOTAL
INDIGENCUS AREAS IN MATO GROSSO TO SE DEMARCATED UNOER PRC0EAGRO
Al                         ETHNIC                  POP LANCAREA PMR 100 DEL GRP OMC HML CRI SPU
ARARA BEIRAOAO             A?ARA                   160   242776 224  87   0   0   0   0   0   0
AREOES'                    XAVANTE                643   218515 266  99  99  99  73   0   0   0
ESCONDIO                  RIKPAKTSA, APIAKA        30   275100 220  85  85   0   0   0   0   0
ESTIVADINHO                PARECI                   20     1970  1G  82  99  84   0   0   0   0
FIGUEIRAS                  PARECI                   16    10000  65  82  99  88   0   0   0   0
IRANTXE'                   MYKY, PARECI,IRANTXE  150    46790 104  99  77  87  86   0  87  87
JUININHA                   PARECI                   20    70500 150  99  85  88   0   0   0   0
PEOUIZAL                   ALANTESU                  0     3186  28  87   0   0   0   0   0   0
PIRIPICURA                 KAwAHIS                   0        0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
SALUMA2                     SALUMA CEnauene-Naue) 156   752000 700  84  87  87   0   0   0   0
TOTAL
POSSIBLE INDIGENOUS AREAS TO BE IDENTIFIED UNDER PROOEAGRO
Al                         ETHNIc                  POP LANDAREA PMR 100 DEL GRP DMC HML CR2  SPU
APIAKA BOCADO              UNKNOWN                   UNKNOWN
APIAKA SAO TOME            UNKXOWN                   UNKNOWN
ARIKEM(CACH.DO SERINGAL)  KARITIANA M?)              UNKNOUN
CABIXt                     UNKNOWN                   UNKNOWN
CAPITAO MARCOS             PARECI                   16        0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
CHIQUITANCS                CHIQUITANOS               UNKNOWN
ESTACAO RONOON             PARECI                   15      600  10  86   0   0   0   0   0   0
LAGO GRANDE                KARAJA                    UNKNCWN
MORERU                     UNKNOWN                   UNKNOWN
PARECI UIRAPURU            PARECI                    9      480   9   8U    60   0   0 0   0
RtO 005 PEIXES             UNKNOWN                   UNKNOWN
TAIHANTESU                 NAMBIKWARA                0     4700  32   0   0   0   0   0 0   0
TATUI                      KAYABI.APIAKA.MUNDUR  256   109000   0   0   0 0   0   0        0   0
ThIs area previously decreed, but not yet physicalty demarcated.
2 Authorfzatfon to demarcate has already been given by Interministerial Order.
CODES.  POPupepulatCion; PMRspermimeter; 100Iidentified; DELzd*limited; GRPulnterministerial Croup Approval;
OMCzdemarcated; MML-confirmed by decree; CRIt-ocat land registry; SPUzfederat registry;
Nlspresence of invaders; 99uection compteted, date unknown.



- 59 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Firm Models and Financial Analysis
1.          Based on the results of agro-ecological zoning the State has been
divided into seven zones. Development of agricultural production will be
concentrated in Zones 2 and 3. Zone 2 includes areas of good soil fertility
with high concentration of smallholder producers in the South, where the
project would aim at increasing production of annual (rice, beans and maize),
and perennial (rubber, banana, fruits and consorcios of fruit tree species),
crops, and introduction of forestry species. In the Northern Zone 3 the
project would encourage farming systems based on enrichment of ncavoeira" and
recuperation of degraded land with forestry species, perennial crops (rubber,
banana, and long maturing species) and "consorcios" of perennial crops (See
Annex 3).
2.          Eight farm mcdels, five for Zone 2 and three for the Zone 3
illustrate the production conditions under the project and have been used for
the financial analysis. A summary table for the models showing individual
cropping patterns and crop yields is presented in Table 5.1. Detailed price
data and crop budgets are presented in the working papers on file.
Southern Areas - Zone 2
3.          Farm Model 1 - Cotton ExPansion.  This illustrates area, presently
under old coffee, where farmers would be encouraged to reduce the -.ea under
coffee and diversify to other labor intensive cash crops like cott .n. As few
farmers would be willing or able to make a wholescale change, son.. coffee
would remain and this would need to be rehabilitated by cutback construction
of contour bunds and use of fertilizer.
4.          Farm Model 2A - Fruit Short Cycle and Forestry Species.  This
represents areas which presently cultivate only semi-mechanized annual crops
(rice and maize), but which have suitable land for cultivating fruit trees.
At full development farmers would reduce the area of annual crops, diversify
to a consorcio of, say, banana/papaya, and plant an area of fallow with
forestry species. Farmers will use mechanized land preparation, improved and
treated seeds 6f high yielding varieties, fertilizers and plant protection
measures. Contour ridging will aid soil and moisture conservation in the
annual crop area.
5.          Farm Model 2B - Citrus.  This illustrates other areas which
presently cultivates only annual crops using semi-mechanized technology, but
which ..'uld diversify their cropping pattern towards perennial citrus fruits
cultivation while still retaining some annual crops. Farmers will use
mechanized land preparation, improved and treated seeds of high yielding



- 60 -
ANNX 5
Page 2 of 5
varieties, and plant protection measures for maize. Soil conservation
measures will be applied to the annual crops areas to control erosion.
6.          Model. 3 - Dairy Imorovement.  Thie represents areas presently
engaged in a small-scale extensive dairy operations, where farmers who each
presently own a small cattle herd of about 40 animals maintained on 40 ha of
natural pasture, would adopt more appropriate veterinary measures to improve
llvestock health. Fertilizer will be used on annual crops and pasture, in
addition to improved treated seeds.
7.          Model 4 - Rubber/Banana.  Thiu illustrates areas presently
cultivating annual crops (rice/beans/maize), and bananas maca with very low
production due mainly to "panama" disease. Farmers would replace the existing
stand of banana with the disease resistant variety "mysore", and would
diversify to rubber intercropped with banana during the first three years.
The area under annual crops, cultivated manually, is expected to decrease
slightly. Fertilizers would be used only on banana and rubber, while erosion
control measures would be introduced to the annual crop area.
Northern Areas
8.          Model 5 - CuDuacu, Maracuia plus Enrichment of caooeLrg. This
model illustrates areas presently cultivating coffee, annual crops, with small
amount of cotton, by manual methods. Farmers would diversify and reduce the
coffee and annual crop area with a "consorcio" of maracuja-cupuacu, and will
gradually adopt a fallow enrichment technology and plant small woodlots to
satisfy home consumption requirements for fuelwood. Farmers will use improved
and treated seods, fertilizer and chemical products.
9.          Model 6 - Lona Maturina Fruits Plus Enrichment of CaDoeira.  This
illustrates areas presently cultivating only annual crops on land suitable for
fruit trees. At full development farmers would have reduced their annual
crops area and their fallow land on which they would be cultivating pupunha or
enriched capoeira, in addition to small woodlots for home consumption.
Cultivation of annual crops will require improved seeds and fertilizer.
10.         Model 7 - Rubber and Banana.  This model represents areas
presently cultivating annual crops, but with land suitable for rubber
cultivation. At full development farmers would have introduced rubber
initially intercropped wLth bananas and annual crops. Fertilizer will be used
on annual crQps.
Aaricultural Production
11.         Based on a total of 20,200 farmers who are expected to adopt the
technologies supported by the project, the projsct incremental agricultural
production has been estimated at full development in year 11 as follows: (a)
annual crops for subsistence: 19,700 tons of maize, 6,000 tons of rlce, 4,200
tons of beans; (b) annual cash crops: 1,825 tons of coffee, 7,170 tons of
cotton, 44,300 tons of bananas, 29,300 tons of papaya, 11,800 tons of citrus,



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
22.7 million liters of milk, and 27,632 heads of cattle. In addition,
forestry production will reach about 42,300 m3 and about 41,200 of fence posts
in year 15. Incremental production of more exotic crops in year 11 will be
about 900 tons of rubber, 3,000 tons of maracuja, 32,200 tons of cupuacu, and
17.9 millions of palmito.
Financial Analysis
12.         The models analyzed show the present situation and the possible
development of farmers who are already established in the Northern area using
animal traction or using semi-mechanized equipment, and farmers in the
Southern area depending mainly on their family labor. Each model assumes a
present situation estimated to remain the same under "without project"
conditions, which may overstate the potential in areas with poorer soil, where
productivity could well fall in the absence of increasing fertilizer use. The
analysis is focussed, in particular, on investigating the return to labor and
the return per family, both of which are considered important motivators of
small farmer behavior. Financial rates of return have also been calculated to
measure the return on farm investment.
13.         The farm budgets include: (a) on-farm investments for land
clearing, pasture improvement (only in the South), tree crops establishment,
minor :farm tools and equipment; and (b) operating and maintenance costs
including improved seeds, fertilizers, soil conservation, and disease control.
They exclude non-cash expenses such as family labor. Prices for inputs and
production output were assumed to be at the average level prevailing over the
last year, in real terms.
14.         Results of the analysis are shown in Table 5.2.  The present
average family income of the project beneficiaries is estimated to be the
equivalent of about US$1,932/year. This would increase to an average of
US$5,155/year in year 15 of the project and corresponds to an increase of
about 170% over the present level. The return to labor would increase from
US$7.4/person-day to US$11.9/person-day. These levels are expected to be
sufficiently attractive for the farmers to adopt the technical innovations
encouraged by the project.
15.         The estimated financial rates of return of the models vary from
13% in the case of the dairy model, to more than 50% for Modele 2 and 7
(fruits and citrus and rubber/banana, respectively). For all models except
dairying, the financial rate of return would still average 11.5% if
incremental production decreases by more than 15% or if incremental total
costs increase by more than 17%. The dairy model is more sensitive to changes
in costs and revenues (a minor change of only 5% would drop the internal rate
of return to 11.5%) and therfore extension service will need to exercise
special care in selecting the circumstances in which it should be promoted.



M          , i .     SIj- u   !I    ji    I r                       f
;u uII.
}   a;.am g3                                       g                           t
It                              !                                         i.   . .I ; ...., ', ii,  ...
i    __"________X_________________.___.__                                              I- ,j
!.."  .........  |..................
.................                              ............................. ,, 
0   0
.* r r          53     *       bP Pr    P rs
, i                                                                         b          ,s -  0  .   
p                                                    U~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
--------------------------------- igl 
-;:                   ::::      :::--                               '           1 
.................   .......
9'--~ ~ ~ ~~8                                                       ii '''   '      .    ,,},
..............................________. ___,,
--------------- *...   ....... .
*            _        -           -                           :
assa~~~~~~a
mw   ~ ~ ~ ~~a -u 9
5~ ~~~~~~~- 30                                                                                . ie
S  _zg_~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 63 -
ANNFX S
Page 5 of 5
Table 5.2
BRAZIT
NATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJEC"'
Farm Model Indicators
MODELS                                NET INCOME            (USSIYEA)              NEr MANDAY    (US$/PERSON.DAY)                     I.R.R
W/o A/              W/P b/                   W/oP b/ 
Southem States
I - Comma Bxp.                         3381.0               3790.0                      7.0                   7.6                 2'  4
el 2A - Fuit Sh. Cy.                     1192.0               5357.0                      6.5                   14.7              >S0.0
ei 2B- Citnu                             IS0.0                5571.0                      7.2                   8.9               >50.0
ei3 - Diying                             2031.0               5290.0                     11.5                   18.2                13.0
'1 4 - Ambber                            2211.0               SS43.0                     10.7                   12.4                27.0
Noithern States
Model S - Rubber/Mmc.                        2705.0               8688.0                      5.5                  17.4                 28.0
Model 6 - FnAit Er. Cep.                     1217.0              2269.0                       5.3                   5.3                 23.0
Model 7 - Rubber/B_m                         1217.0              4728.0                       5.3                  10.4               >50.0
Avet4e                                       1931.8              S5S4.S                       7.4                  11.9
W/O - VWitout Pjeea
W/P - With PNojCtIn year t5



-64-
ANNEX 6
Table 6.1
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Pmoiect Costs by Conwonent
Local            Foreinge             Tota
(USS Million)
Estimated Proiect Costs
A. Agro-Ecolo2ical Zonine and Land Tenure
Regularization                                        27.4              1216                40.0
Agro-Ecological Zoning                              6.2              12.0                 18.2
Land Tenure Regularization                         21.2               0.6                 21.8
B. Management. Prot,ction and Monitorin of
Natural Resources                                     47.9               6.5                54.4
Forestry Conservation and Sustained
Management                                        10.2               0.4                10.6
Mining Activity Rationalization                     5.8               1.1                 6.9
Conservation Areas                                  2.3               0.2                 2.5
Informal Environmental Education                    1.4               0.1                 1.5
Enforcement Activities                             15.8               2.5                 18.3
Institutional Strengthening                         4.9               0.8                 5.7
Protection Indigenous Reserves                      6.6               1.2                 7.8
Monitoring and Remote Sensing                       0.9               0.2                 1.1
C. Aero-Forestry Development                             60.4               9.8                 70.2
Agricultural Research/Meteorological Stations      10.4               1.7                 12.1
Rural Extension                                    25.2               1.9                 27.1
Agricultural Credit                                24.2               6.1                30.3
Market Information System                           0.6               0.1                 0.7
D. Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services             4 7                                   6S.4
Health                                              4.7               0.5                 5.2
Education                                           7.9               1.7                 9.6
Water Supply                                        4.5               1.7                 6.2
Rural Electrification                               6.3               2.7                 9.0
Rural Transpout                                    25.3              10.1                35.4
E. Proiect Adminisration                                 11.4              025                  IL
Project Admninistration (State)                     6.3               0.2                 6.5
Project Adfninistration (Federal)                   2.3               0.1                 2.4
Technical Cooperation                               2.8               0.2                 3.0
Total Baseline Costs                              19     461                            241.9
-Physical contingencies                            10.8               4.4                15.2
-Price contingencies                               23.8               4.8                28.6
Total Proiect Coas                                7230               55.3               285



-65-                                             ANNEX 6
Table 6.2
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Components, including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Year   01       02       03       04       05       Total
A. Agro-Ecotogical Zoning and   5==u===== =============          ================
Land Tenure Regularization
1. AgroecologicaL Zoning            6687.0  7537.5  5971.2   638.1    641.7  21475.5
2. Land Tenure Reg.                  2625.6  6492.4  7090.7  6083.9  3900.4  26193.0
,........................ ........................................................ ..... ........ ..
Sub-Total                              9312.6  14029.9  13061.9  6722.0  4542.1  47668.5
S. Nat. Res. Mgmt./Protect.
1. Protect. Indigenous Res.          2640.1   1865.3  1880.5  1593.1   1164.5   9143.5
2. Conservation Areas                 277.4   506.5   564.1    688.7    883.0   2919.7
3. Mining Activ. Procedures           460.7   1152.3   1919.3   2191.1   2662.5   8385.9
4. Forestry Police                   4155.9   6396.6   3641.5   3402.9   3538.6  21135.5
S. Nanag. Cons. Forest Res.          1176.2  2257.2  2929.2  3081.3  2898.4  12342.3
6. Instit. Strengthening             1114.9  1763.1   1400.2   1213.2   1062.2  6553.6
7. Informal Educ.                     391.4    315.3   311.5    323.6   334.3   1676.1
8. Remote Sensing                     749.2    109.9    145.3    114.4    162.2   1281.0
~~~~....... ............ .........................   
Sub-Total                             10965.8  14366.2  12791.6  12608.3  12705.7  63437.6
C. Agro-forestry Dev.lopment
1. Rural Extension                  6309.6  6930.5  5390.0  5567.9  6578.5  30776.5
2. Agric. Res/Neteo. Std.            5030.0  3583.6  1664.4  1748.3   1796.7  13823.0
3. Agric. Credit                     3648.8  8352.3  11326.6  9780.1   1994.6  35102.4
4. Price Info/System                  366.7     91.0    94.6    98.3    102.1    752.7
........................................ ......... ................... .
Sub-Total                             15355.1  18957.4  18475.6  17194.6  10471.9  80454.6
D. Soclo. Econ. Info./Services
1. Health                             587.8   1167.8   1304.6   1438.5   1612.6   6111.3
2. Education                          562.5  2547.7  3673.6  2856.7   1841.7  11482.2
3. Water Supply                      1369.6  2069.8  2150.6  1489.5    820.7   7900.2
4. Rural Roads                       9075.2  14811.4  13468.4   5209.0   2055.4  44619.4
S. Rural ELectrification             4546.9   2657.0   3450.8      0.0       0.0  10654.7
..... ............. .... ...... ...... ........... ...... ................ ............
Sub-Total                             16142.0  23253.7  24048.0  10993.7   6330.4  80767.8
E. ProJet AdcinJNgnt. State            1663.5  1356.0   1412.7   1450.3  1506.9  7389.4
F. ProJ . Admin. Federal                535.1    535.7   535.9    550.4   568.9   2726.0
G. Technical Cooperation               1517.5    854.8   876.9       0.0       0.0   3249.2
............... ........ ................ ...........................
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   55491.6  7353.7  71202.6  49519.3  36125.9 285693.1
*-u------u----u#__ mu= a-



BRIAZIL
GAO  ROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT-PROJECT
Summuary accounts by Proiect component
(US$-OOO)
saga  sss  ii- Id.  .3.      ~             I-Sq    e.g.         i-k.    0.2...    SIMS, $Wk.            a"        3d        .01-I91p             gn.l-s. ai                 fd.       C310WS                                 WO "
a. i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wsm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      o.       M$        I".IWv00
m. e.m  taga OM"a..                         g         0.        C         0.5       g.e       La*          CCI       CA0       4.        .         .          ..      0.0       e.     UCil     34Ull.    0.5          *.:       4.1       s.       s1.is.                       .   '.31
C.e.t~         so.      is.       Wis        n.          A      aae          .       SC          GMS          A      MA?01 .             .25         .       Nl      351.          g        ie        s        .        C           C       121        a      Ue        us isL
L.        .1           4SA        MAs     SA         MA.         Ls.       CA      '4.0        :  g.e     ma.       n.e      u,es      4aA         S.a    e'.g         g.el   "s..    Sl.            S.      C         C16.C    S..        g.e       e.         .      g,,      us i.
W. .ta  gag    "'m    CA          iA        C          .       C           .i.:C                           .        e.         A        *.     35            .         . A         ea .g           e.                                               fIge  .  ggA3.  CA   3519.C  513.
C.  met 5iMI    1153              CA        CA        CA      NS          CA       C         CA          C3.9   1U.C        C31s        S.C       e.                  e.        C          .         A     so.C       g.e       g.         e.g    f5SA        Me.    9113.5     .   55
43. It."m                11.2     10EA     gm.C    lIA          elA          .e     UAt        CA          S.C      123C    M3.            .         A        C i.,            482.5       ,*       M's    0.0         CA        CA        we.ef    stat.       g.,    Mss       U9..    MAs
NM.POS u..t.C         3215.4    61.1    U2SIA        531.4    in1.m      *MC       6.10e                 an.7,,g            m5.4      USA          eA31 M.43.0SCA                          0.4       CA      g.e        ' ......? USA .... i       NU;i.3       .C       A       iA 
1.P10-11UdmaI           S.      INS.1    nu1.       CUI       Mo IU.    #30.4      I S.C    USA             A      WS.C  44 1 5MI.4    54.4        CA0      e.      U           C          .0       C       IA        1.4       S.C       M .1   1206i         g.g     g.g    is.,  on.,
Af-d            MSsIA      UNA       NIVA      38.1    6110J        MA.       iA        P"         gIlS       tie..    UiiA      no"          CC        CA      U.SA        g.e       OA        CA    gLg    406.1    "OA             gg.,    S1691.      SA6  we                   i
,. sae.   S             I.          I4      U.        3.         5.        S013                                     iA       U.            .         .         .       lA         CA4      g.g       CA      SC       5612       5.5       2r       USA1        KA1   15i.      MA's   CLs
C. IMIewS i.,.4g  85A      CA~w     m.0      sm CA      , CA     111         La       "A        C1.0       41,A      16..g       g.e       *.tAa91                       0         .          S     C        e.           I       6.         165       es      eI       ue     a
5.Wle m....             SA         e.e     CIL         LoC     USA         CA0       CA0       e0         m.        NiR      e            A        g.         .       3.          .         .         .       A        S.         A        3.        65        eg       C        S      a
s. sir.... 1  WA  C..  g.g  CA        CA        CA        CA       U            C.C       S.C       *A       m.i        CA       31.4       S.C       S.C       i.e       eg     g.g        g11 0A              S.C       146.9     LA       4AS      U.S   ID
C.    Cdi..     WA         CA         .C     215         CA       5.         g.       555          SiA      3.DNlA MAWIUNS.CI5UA Sug                                      .S       g~         O     05       155         e           .       1         C         A      2.      1.
awe a  mis   4s11.e    US 1    841 6   5213.0    USIA  SA~~~u                GAS 18.1 ilI     i n18.       Mo.1.     FIC         CA      4l:us.                 .         .C      C.      04      C01e      15      VAs,s.e        n a.      i.i  USA.        H.g     MA
SC...  M0a"            1          W        D  Le  LO.5LM  Sa                        551      CS,          OAl.    aCll       IN,      sA.       in..       US        s.e      4ig,      SI.      11.    USA         W3.I        5.5      1M.      55l:C        Cs      C.g      e.     MA.
Isle. (USigat         US I       253     35.         W2.C    O5.           A      IIC        OA          MAn      we, 1    127       lISA      2Sli        65.?    110.         OA1.    a54      Cl    1.           M.         35       S.        .SA         11 US            SC
ms W -C  US             MA,    29             .. U    C  0A5    11         asS     M55I      N  S       sigi          OA21    Mi.                            VA59 510.  5.  Cii 4.1        N        015.2  35.       19.       Z1A       31-49.    4C           5.5  2217.    "N  IMM
O.m                         v      55        11        in.     aw,        la                   015        COANu               14 d.mus               9        i.S     51.4       24.      24.6C1   221.              110.4      m.s t4.C             54ij  W.2A   44             gA1   ov,:
i-isp gs   01)1.1  MA  155.1    USSS  GlUe  555.525.6           166.6   3501.1    85.1       urn.,    isit.,       10.2     C55      1614 C    US 7    5191   SISi         USA        3.3       USALe  O.:  "' .63....C. ..
.................................   ww   ...   ...  .................  .... !  ..............
"M  89DAMM  aps   "S"  OM.r  61.6    sulLs    SORIA  OPPIA $11.9  36.1  11"M  2622.1 "M.r    ""A  A  421.9    M33.0  .0  8.0       ww           ;;;~d    IMA    ;w         050"       LS   JMA         11.1 it93
Sam a m C"" "  v:'    mn: maii  ows    m e    MR.  ouL  simA was.s SSW.     am  3119,5 ONA,  M:    "           6hl.           "41111 VA    U00       aVKA       am.    a   04          .1 Isl00 IA A"
"A  SW  464.9  MA  416.1  as  MA  no.$    NWA  4nf  101  stu:    u.o      ns:      u ai S'    igco    isit.      onA      w.1       15.9       n                    0.0     0.0      0.0     DA~~~~~~~~~I-
1419.9                                                                                                                                                    a     'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 67 -
MNNEX ,6,
Table 6.4
ATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimatid schedulte of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank                Quarter                       Disbursement      Cuiulative Disbursement         Balance
Fiscal Year         Ending                       During Quarter    Amoumt           I Total         of Loan
1093                Sept. 30, 1992                                                                    205.0
Dec. 31, 1992                   25.0 1/          25.0             12.2            180.0
March 31, 1993                  10.0 1/          35.0             17.1            170.0
June 30, 1993                    5.0 1/          40.0             19.5            165.0
1994                Sept. 30, 1993                    5.0             45.0             21.9           160.0
Dec. 31, 1993                    6.0             51.0             24.9            i54.0
March 31, 194                    9.5             60.5             29.5            144.5
June 30, 1994                   13.5             74.0             36.1            131.0
1995                Sept. 30, 1994                   14.0             88.0            42.9            117.0
Dec. 31, 1994                   15.0             103.0            50.2            102.0
March 31, 1995                  15.0             118.0            57.6             87.0
June 30, 1995                   14.0            132.0             64.4            73.o
1996                Sept. 30, 195                    12.0            144.0             70.2            61.0
Dec. 31, 1995                   10.0             154.0            75.1             51.0
March 31, 1996                  10.0             164.0            80.0             41.0
June 30. 1996                    9.0            173.0             84.4            32.0
997                Sept. 30, 1996                    9.0            182.0             88.7            23.0
Dec. 31, 1996                    8.0             190.0            92.6             15.0
March 31, 1997                   5.0             195.0            95.1             10.0
June 30, 1997                    5.0            200.0             97.6             5.0
1998                Sept. 30, 1997                    3.0            203.0            99.0              2.0
Dec. 31, 1997                    2.0            205.0            100.0              0.0
[/ Including initial deposit of USSlS.0 million into the Special Account and USS20.S million of retroactive financing.



-68-
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
STATE     FEDERAL
IBRD      GOVT       GOVT     TOTAL
A. AGRO-ECOLOGICAL 20NING AND
LAND TENURE REGULARIZATION           46.8       0.1        0.8       47.7
Agro-Ecological Zoning           21.1       0.1        0.3       21.5
Land Tenure Regularization       25.7        --        0.5      26.2
B.  NATURAL RESOURCES MANAG/PROT.         59.5         --       3.9       63.4
Protection Indig. Reserves        8.9        --        0.2        9.1
t-onservation Areas               2.7        --        0.2        2.9
Mining Activ. Procedures          7.8        --        0.6        8.4
Forestry Police                  19.8                  1.3      21.1
Manag. Conserv. Forest Rec.    11.4          --        0.9       12.3
Inst. Strengthening               6.2        --        0.4        6.6
Informal Educat.                  1.6        --        0.1        1.7
Remote Sensing                    1.1        --        0.2        1.3
C. AGROFORESTRY DEVELOPMENT               47.7       28.4       4.4       80.5
Rural Extension                  13.0      15.6        2.2       30.8
Agric. Research/Meteo St.         9.2       3.9        0.7       13.8
Agric. Credit                    25.0       8.7        1.4       35.1
Market Information                0.5       0.2        0.1        0.8
D.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE         41.1        9.5      30.2       80.8
Health                            2.4       2.6        1.1        6.1
Education                         7.5       2.0        2.0       11.5
Water Supply                      3.7       2.1        2.1        7.9
Rural Roads                      22.5        --       22.1      44.6
Rural Electricity                 5.0       2.8        2.9       10.7
E.  PROJ. ADMIN/MGT.STATE                  5.0        1.9       0.5        7.4
F.  PROJ. ADMIN/MGT. FEDERAL               1.9         --       0.8        2.7
G.  TECH. COOPERATION                      3.0        0.1       0.1        3.2
TOTAL                 205.0       40.0      40.7      285.7 1/
1/ Including about USS11.7 million in local taxes not financed by IBRD.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6.6
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSQ NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
CATEGORY             ITEM AND % OF EXPENDITURES                       TOTAL
(NET OF TAXES)                           AMOUNT
(USs M)
1.   (a)    Agro-ecological Zoning and Land Tenure                      41.0
Regulari.ation
100% of expenditures
(b)    Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural            46.8
Resources
100% of expenditures
(c)    Extens'.on, Research and Marketing Information              16.3
75% of expenditures
(d)    Health and Education                                        4.7
50% of expenditures
2.          Roads Paving and Maintenance, Water Supply and              27.2
Rural Electrification
50% of expenditures
3.          Rural credit.                                               22.2
75% of expenditures
4.          Training, consultancies, studies and                        16.9
consultants.
100% of expenditures
5.          Project administration                                       6.2
75% of expenditures
6.          Unallocated                                                 23.7
TOTAL                                                      205.0



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6.7
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual contractual and Other Payments
(US$ Million)
Pasment Years                   Total
1      2       3       4        5      Payment     Remarks
Civil Works
Road Paving                  -       8.8     8.8                      17.6       ICe
Other                        6.0     8.5    14.0    8.0      5.0      41.5        LCB
1.0     1.2     1.2     1.3     1.3       6.0       Force Acc.
Equipment, Machinery
Vehicles and
Furniture
Rural Electri'efatfon
Equipment                  1.5    4.9      2.6             -         9.0       ICB
Other                        4.1     4.1    8.2    4.0       0.1      20.5       LCB
0.8     0.8     0.9     0.9     0.8       4.2       Shopping
0.2     0.3             -                 0.5       NSF il
Contractual Services
Aerial Photogr&.phy
and Laud Zoning
Operatfons                 5.7   11.6      -       -       -        17.3       ICe
Other                        2.5     2.5     2.6     2.6     2.6      12.8       LCB
0.2    0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2       1.0       Shopping
Technieal Assistncee
Training, Studles               4.4    4.4      6.7    6.5      0.2      22.2
sltaries and Benf it           16.8   10.3   10.3   10.3   10.3          58.0
Other Operational Costs         8.2     8.2     8.2     8.2    8.2       41.0
Investment Credit               4.1    7.5    7.5       7.5     7.5      34.1
TOTALS                         55.5   73.3    71.2   49.5   36.2    285.7
Bank-Financed                 (51.0)1/(52.0)  (51.0)  (36.0)  (35.6)   (205.0)
1/ NBF Not Sank-Financed.
I/ Includes retroaetive financing for USS20.5 milion.



-71-                                                ANEX 7
Table 7.1
BRAZL
MATOGROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Llit of Executing and Collabortingl Anencies"
Project Activity                                         Main Executing Agency                          Main Colaborating Agenciecs
Agro-Ecological Zoning                                   SEPLAN                                           nTERMAT
FEMA, FUNAI
LAd Tenurc Regularization                                INTERMAT, INCRA
Management and Conservation                              FEMA
of Foret Resources                                       PMF-MT
Mining Activities Rationalization                        FEMA
Establishment of Conservation Areas                      FEMA
InforMal Environmentl Education                          FEMA
Control of Forestfy and                                  FEMA, SEPLAN,
Mining Activities                                        PMF-MT, FUNAI
Support tO Indigenous Communities                        FUNAI                                           IBAMA, FUNAI,
SES-MT, INTERMAT, INCRA
Monitotun of Deforettion                                 Forest Cover Monitoring Unit                    SEMA/FEMA, PMF-MT, IBAMA,
to be established within SEPLAN                FUNAI, EMBRAPA, INtERMAT
Agro-forestry Reserch                                    EMPAER
Rural Extension                                          EMPAER
Rural Credit                                             BEMAT                                          EMPAER, CASEMAT, SEAGRI.
SEPLAN
Storage, Ptocessing and                                  EMPAER, SEAAF
Marketing Informtion
Health                                                   SES-MT
Education                                                SEC-MT
Water Supply                                             SANEMAT
Rural Electrification                                    CEMAT
Maintenence and Paving                                   CODEMAT
of Rural Roads
Prject Adminisration                                     SDP-PR, SEPLAN/PCU
I/    In addition to these pubic agencies, relevant interlational and national non-governAental organizations have participated in project prepation and would
be encouraged to patticipate actively In impletntation as well. Tatee will be NOO reprstenation In the State Counci for Ptoject Administrtion (Par.
3.45). NOOs will also participate in the Annaul Independent Evaluation Commitee which will monitor environental and ocial perormance of the
project (par. 3.5), nd In such other project activities as are agreed in the couree of each annual opeatinW plan exercisc (pars. 3.47).



HATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect PhyaLcal Taraets and Schedule of Irpflomentgtion
.....................................................................................................................
Units                   1                  2                  3                   4                 5         Total
A. LAWD 20NXCG NPPhIG  REILARIZAT HIC
.......................................
0elhfftation. Desarcation Cadustral           Rillion Xs.              0.2               12.4               12.4                8.3                           41.3
iswAnc. of Ttless                             f_ilies                                 4500.0             4500.0             4S00.0             4500.0      1h000.0
Dcsreatlon of Cons.rv. Arms                   K.                     104.0             264.0               264.0             264.0              104.0       1000.0
2oning 2nd 4pril_ tlon                        NilIfon No.             8.0               10.8                 8.0                                              26.8
0. hNUREIEG T/PIOTECTION EWVIEW.
..................................
1. Iduitlfication State Forests CfEPS)          No.                                        1.0                 3.0               3.0                2.0          9.0
....................................
fEPSAre                                       iIlifon Nm.                               0.4                1.3                 1.3               1.0          4.0
Prep. fEPS Land Nanag. Plans                  o.                                         1.0                3.0               3.0                2.0          9.0
Prep. P"IV. tend "wooa. Pine                 NiKiohn Na.                                 0.2                0.3               0.3                0.3          1.1
2. NIning Activitles Rstfonatizalion
.......................................
Preparation Strategic Study                  No.                      1.0                                                                                     1.0
Establish. Densrtration Site                 N2                       -                200.0                                                      -2000
Fnp of Frgi t Armas                          Set                      1.0                -                  -                                                  1.0
Training In Niningll.firon. Lte              No.                      1.0                                   1.0                -                  -           2.0
3. Conservation Units
.............   .................................................. F
Conservation Area Names                      Nam           Chap. Culamres      Rio Naderihua         S. BEarbra         Rio Nortes
Apiacas        Rio Culabs         Rio Ronr       Ricardo Franco           Cachibo
Conservation Ares                            000 Na.                547.0            B10.0               1500.SU            1200.0              500.0      4647.0
_ agament Plans                              No.                      2.0                2.0                2.0               2.0                 1.0         9.0
4. informl Enviroi. Education
..................................
Study Environ. Assesseent                    No.                      l 0                                   -                  - 1..
Train fENA Tecniciam                         Days                    10.0              30.0                30.0               30.0              30.0        130.0
Training Coumities                           Oays                    20.0               20.0               20.0               20.0              20.0        100.0
5. Control Forestry and Nining Activ.
.......................................
Training  bsic forestry Policy              Courses                  3.0                2.0                1.0                                               6.0
Training Nelicopter Pilot                    Persons                 6.0                 -                                     -                              6.0
Training Fix. Ming                           Persons                  6.0                 -                  -                  -                 -           6.0
Satellite ismeery Interpretetlon             Courses                  3.0                3.0                3.0                1.0                -          10.0
Special Studies Rioteles                     No.                      1.0                                    -                  -                              10
Routirn  Inspect. FEN  Grad.                 Days                   630.0              SO .0              S00.0              500.0             500.0       2630.0
Routine Inmpect. Forestry Police             Days                20000.0            20000.0            20000.0            20000.0            20000.0    100000.0
Aerial Reconessaince                         Days                  900.0              900.0              900.0              900.0              900.0       4500.0
inspections                                  Days                  900.0              900.0              900.0              900.0              900.0       4500.0
00t
no:
I-.9
o- S 
III_



fl&ZIL
NATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Physical Targets and Schedule of Imglementation
................ ............................................................................................................
units                   1                   2                  3                   4                  5         Total
6. Suppwort Indigenots Comuities
.............................
Dee rcetion New loundries                    KIu                     e39.0              34a.0              443.0                                    -         1630.0
et*abilitation of loundries                   Ka.                    305.0              600.0              600.0              490.0                           1995.0
Training Health Nnitors                       Deys                                      141.0              141.0               141.0              141.0        564.0
Adveced Trg. Pubtic Health                   Pays                    240.0                -                220.0                                  220.0        680.0
edium  evel frg. Public gea1th                Days                     -                750.0                 -                750.0                          1500.0
Health  et. Serv. Diagnostic                  Days                   200.0              300.0              200.0               100.0              100.0        900.0
T. onitoring Deforestation
.........................
Training Progrmin                             No.                     2.0                 2.0                                    -                               4.0
onit. visits in State Craduate                Days                   60.0                60.0               60.0                60.0               60.0        300.0
Nonit. Visits in State nediLa                 Days                    40.0               40.0               40.0                40.0               40.0        200.0
S. Institutionsl Strengthening
..................................
Study Strategic Plaming                       No.                      1.0                -                            -         -                               1.0
Vorkshop on Conflict Rosolution               Ho.                      1.0                1.0                 1.0                1.0                1.0          5.0
Autirso Pare Hatureza Projects                Days                    50.0               50.0               50.0                50.0               50.0        250.0
C. AGROFORESTRT DEWELOPNENT                                                                                                                                                    W 
.. ........... ......................... :I"
1. tesearch
.......... ................. .......
Anmual Crop  Trials                           no.                     35.0               70.0               70.0               139.0              139.0        453.0
Peremisl  Crops Trials                        go.                      7.0               31.0               64.0               80.0                80.0        262.0
Forestry Trials                               No.                     5.0                 3.0                2.0                1.0                             11.0
Agroforestry Trials                           No                       1.0                3.0                1.0                 -                               5 0
Test of Product. System On-Fore               No                                         30.0               30.0               30.0                30.0        120.0
Test of Product. System On-Station            no.                     12.0               12.0               12.0               12.0                 -           48.0
forestry IVTs  -o.                                                     -                 21.0               33.0               42.0                46.0         46.0*
Agroforestry TVTs                             No.                      .                 44.0              176.0              220.0               220.0        220.0*
2. Extension
........... ................. ......
5 Na. Dem. Fields Estab.                     No.                        3                   6                -                                      -            9.0
1 Ns. Deamn. Fields Estab.                   No.                       45                 45                  45                 45                 -          180.0
Specialized Farmers Courses                   Events                  200                 350                350                350                 295       1545.0
Courses form leaders                          Events                                       15                 15                 15                  1S         60.0
Other Farmer Courses                          Events                  400                 700                700                700                 700       3200.0
Exter ion  asic Coursees/Tech.                Persons                 214                  50                 50                 50                  50        414.0
Refresher Extensio  Cours                     Persons                 214                 304                304                304                 304       1430.0
forestry Cmwou l/Technician                   Persons                  SQ                  50                 50                 50                 50         250.0
Other Speciatix. Coures/Techn.                Persons                   6.                  6                  6                  6                  6          30.0
*cu u.lstlve                                                                                                                                                           '
a s 
'Oi



BRAZIL
NATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Phvaical Taroeta and Schedule of Imtplementation
Units                     1                   2                   3                    4                   5         Totel
2. Extensmin (contd.)
.........................
Deonstrations                                   Events                    270                 450                 450                  450                 450        2070.0
TVTs                                            Events                     90                 190                 200                  200                 190        870.0
on- farm Deonotrations                          L.ents                    -                    36                   71                  71                  71         249.0
Field Days                                      Deys                     90.0               180.0               180.0                180.0               180.0        810.0
Excursiaons                                     Days                    180.0               280.0               280.0                270.0               270.0        1280.0
Seminars                                        Days                      2.0                27.0                27.0                 27.0                27.0         110.0
Total farmrs Attendwace                         ho.                   15090.0             17520.0             19950 0             27240.0             32100.0       32100.0*
Farmers Adoptnq lechnotogy                      No.                    2020.0              6060.0             12120.0              18180.0             20200.0      20200.0*
Farmers us.rg IUWQAGUO                          No.                    1435.0              4305.0              8610.0              12915.0             14350.0       14350.0*
forarmersjlasen%s.rn.sm tRatio                  No.                     120.0               150.0               180.0                270.0               330.0           -
3. Rural Credgi
.......... ...............................
Fsrmrs for Seasonal ad Invest. Loans            No.                    1435.0              4305.0              8610.0              12915.0             14350.0       14350.0*
Onfoare Seasonal Loan              lillion USS                           13.7                14.9                 1S.2                15.6                16.2          16.2*
On-Form Invest. Loans                           Million USS               1.8                 3.7                 S.5                 SS                  1.8          18.3
Projectos Piscicucturs                          No.                      50.0               100.0               100 0                100.0                50.n         400.0
Agroindustris Comuniteris                       No.                                           5.0                  5.0                 5.0                              15O0
Armazen IMPY 700 Tons                           Ho.                       2.0                 2.0                  -                   -                   -             4.0
Armazen WAPT 1000 Tons                          no.                       1.0                  1.0                                                                       2.0      j
4. Crop Storage
.. .......................
Cotrzl Coord. Unit                              No.                       1.0                 -                                        -                                 1.0
Classification Posts                            No.                       7.0                 -                    -                   -                   -             7.0
D. S0CIO-ECOh0MIC INFRASTRUCTURE
..................................
1. Health
.................. 7.......
new Health Posts                                No.                                           5.0                  5.0                 5.0                 5.0          20.0
Health Posts for INCRA Schems                   No.                                           2.0                 2.0                  2.0                 1.0           7.0
Enlarged Health Posts                           No.                       3.0                 5.0                 5.0                  2.0                 -            15.0
Restored Health Posts                           No.                       3.0                                                                                            a -  -  -  0
Axblunces                                       No.                       1.0                 4.0                 -                    -                   -             5.0
Study on Health Study                           No.                       1.0                 -                   -                    -                                 1.0
Training Health Assistants                      Persons                   -                  30.0                30.0                 27.0                27.0         114.0
Refresher Training Courses                      Persons                 100.0               100.0               100.0                100.0               100.0         500.0
2. Edwcation
.........................
Construc 1 Room Schwol                          No.                       -                  10.0                20.0                 13.0                 -            43.0
Construc 2 Room School                          No.                          -               20.0                 17.0                10.0                              47.0
Extensmon Exist. Schools                        No.                      20.0                30.0                20.0                 20.0                20.0         110.0
Pilot Environ. Educ                             No. Schools               -                                       14.0                14.0                14.0          14.0*
,.....................................................................................................................................................................
cumulative
oI-



HATO GROSSO NATUPAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Physical Targets and Schedule of Implementation
Units                     1                    2                    3                     4                   5          lotal
2. Edustien Ccontd)
..............    ................................. 
Eniron. Teachers Trg. Courses                     Days                       -                   19.0               920.0                920.0                939.0        2798.0
Uncert. Teachers Courses                          Days                    210.0                1800.0               1800.0              1800.0                  -          5610.0
3. Water Supply
........ .................                                                                                                                                          5.
welts                                             No.                       10.0                 15.0                 15.0                10.0                  S.0          55.0
Distribution Network                              Km.                      52.0                  78.0                 78.0                52.0                 29.0         289.0
House Linkages                                    No.                    1760.0               2640.0               2640.0               1760.0                900.0        9700.0
4. Rural Electrification
.........................
Sub-Sta:ion laprovement                           No.                          2                            -                                                   -             2.0
Electr. Branh Caceres                               .                        121                158.0               300.0                  -                                579.0
Electr. Branch Rondonopolis                       KM.                         73                82.0                   -                   -                    -           155.0
S. Rurol Transport
.......................................
State Roods Conservation                          000 Km.                    3.0                 3.0                  2.0                  2.0                  1.0          11:0
ansilcipal Roads Conservation                     000 Km.                    4.5                  4.5                  3.0                 2.0                  1.0           15.0
Paving Araputaen-Jury                             Km.                                           39.0                 30.0                   -                   -            69.0      1
Paving Ladi-Villa Progreso                        Km.                                           33.0                 22.0                                                   s55 0       4
Institutional Sttud                               No.                       1.0                3                    3                    3                    3               170.0
Total Trg. of Persouei                            Days                    350.0                350.0                350.0                3500                 350.0        1750.0
E. ADIIIISTtATIN AID NOUITORINC
..................................
1. Monitoring Ind. Cminttee                          Unit                       1.0                  1.0                  1.0                  1.0                  1.0           5.0
.........................
2. Evaluation Nidtern/Ex-Post                        Wnit                                  -                              1.0                  -                    1.0           2.0
..................................
3 Tedmnical Assistance
.........................
Internatiaml Crnsultant                          Person/Month               3.0                  3.0                                       -                                  6.0
Local Consultant                                  Persaon/onth             24.0                 24.0                  -                                                      48.0
Professionais                                     Person/Month               8.0                 8.0                  8.0                  -                    -            24.0
AdbInistrative                                    Person/Month               1.0                  1.0                  1.0                 -                                  3.0
....... ...................................................... ................................................................................................................................. .....................................................................
4                                                             'U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m1 
0 0-  2:



BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Organizational Chart
SDR-PR                                    Federal
National Coordination - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Executing
Unit                                     Agniesj
State
Governor
Directing          SEPLAN-                               State Representation
C o u n e i l  M r _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _A g e n cie s
as
|Technical|                                            Administration and|
|Unit   l| Finance Unit l
Administrative    Financial     Documentation and
Programming and      Monitoring and                    Support Unit      Control Unit   Information Unit
Supervision Unit     Evaluation Unit
wtX
State Executing
Agencies



77 -
ANNEX8
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Su2ervision
1.        Supervision of the Mato Grosuo Natural Resource Management Project will take
place on several levels, and will be very intensive throughout the implementation
period. In broad terms, the principal responsibilities for supervision will rest with
the State Government (through the Project Coordination Unit, PCU, of the State
Secretariat of Planning), the Federal Government (through the Secretariat of Regional
Development of the Presidency of the Republic, SDR-PR), and the Bank (through LA1EA).
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and a UNDP technical assistance team will also
play important roles.
2.        At State leveL, the PCU will routinely supervise the work of the project
executing agencies, based on quarterly monitoring and evaluation (M&E) reports which
will be received within one month of the close of each trimester of the calendar year.
The content and format of the M&E reports is being modified, as discussed in para. 9
below.
3.        The PCU will include a Forest Cover Monitoring Unit which will monitor the
location and surface changes in mining and logging activities throughout the State, on
the basis of satellite imagery obtained at 18-day intervals. This will provide an
extremely powerful instrument for the continuous monitoring of project impact, and will
help to direct the State'e enforcement activities in support of the Mato Groess EAP.
The findings will be aggregated each year into an annual Satellite Monitoring Report,
which will be submitted to the Bank for review by January 1, 1993 and each January 1
thereafter.
4.        The PCU will also enjoy the full-time support of six UNDP techrical
assistance specialists with internationally recognized credentials (as well as the
equivalent three full-time specialists, to be used for short-term inputs as necessary),
to support and monitor project implementation. Three of the full-time specialists have
been recruited, and selection of the remaining three is at an advanced stage of
processing.
The State Council for Project Administratic. (CEAP), chaired by the State
Governor, will meet at least once quarterly (or more often, as needed) to review
project implementation progress and take decisions on outstanding issues. Quarterly
progress reports, annual operating plans, the report of the Annual Independent
Evaluation Committee, the annual Satellite Monitoring Report, and the mid-term
evaluation report will be discussed and reviewed by the CEAP.
At Federal level, the SDR-PR will supervise the project at frequent
lntervals.  The 8DR-PR will receive all quarterly progress reports; conduct such
independent field visits as it considers necessary, and participate with the Bank in
all major supervision missions to Nato Grosso. The SDR-PR will also pay particular
attentlon ti any issues which may arise concerning the performance of Federal executing
agencies under the project.



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
7.        Within the Bank, LAIZA will coordinate all supervision efforts for the
project, which will be allocated higher supervision coefficients than normal. The Bank
will receive two consolidated semestral progress reports each year, based on the
quarterly progress reports compiled by the PCU. The timing of supervision inputs may
vary over the course of any one year, depending on the specific needs of individual
project components, but normally three main supervision missions would be mounted in
February/March, July and November/December. The first would, inter al", review the
findings of the Annual Satellite Monitoring Report (due January 1) and the semestral
report for the second semester of the preceding calendar year.  The July mission,
intended to be a full annual joint Bank-Government implementation review, would
consider the findings of the Annual Independent Evaluation Committee (due to the Bank
by June 30), the annual audit report on the use of loan and counterpart proceeds (also
due by June 30) and the proposed annual budgetary allocation for the project for the
succeeding year (by July 15). The third mission would be timed to coincide with review
of the draft Annual Operating Plan for the succeeding calendar year (due to the Bank
by November 15).   To support its periodic Headquarters inputs, the Bank will station
one full-time staff member in Mato Grosso to provide continuous supervision of the
project.  Specialized staff of the Bank's Recife Office in Northeast Brazil may also
be called upon to provide occasional inputs and advice, as needed.
S.        NGa have parttcipated in project design and will also be actively involved
in monitoring implementation.  NOos would be represented on the State CEAP (para. 5).
Through their participation in the CEAP, NGOe will have the opportunity to review and
approve all annual operating plans for the project, review and discuss all quarterl,
supervision reports and other M&E reports and materiale which come to the CEAP, and
participate  in all major project-related decisions.   Selected NGOs will also
particJpate as members of each Annual Independent Evaluation Committee (para. 10).
9.        The State has a format for quarterly reporting, which focusses heavily on
physical and financial targets, and which is too complex to facilitate timely decision-
making and identification of problems.  A detailed proposal hs been prepared to
simplify the monitorina and evaluation indicators, and improve the design and quality
of the M&E reports. Thie was reviewed during loan negotiations and understandings were
reached as to the type of indicators which would be central to the assessment of
performance of individual components and the overall project. With assistance from the
UNDP specialists, and after further discussions with each of the executing agencies,
a revised set of indicators will be submitted to the Bank in draft by September 30,
1992, for review, with a view to adopting a final version by December 31, 1992. All
quarterly reports beginning with the January 1-March 31, 1993 report, will be based on
the new format.
10.       Annual, Mid-term and Final Proiect Reviews.   An Independent Evaluation
Committee (IEC) would be invited yearly to monitor the environmental and social
performance of the project. Specifically, the IEC would monitor implementation of the
environmental policy and regulatory reforms undertaken in connection with the project,
the compatibility of annual Federal and State investment programs in Mato Grosso with
the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning and the impact of the project in the
State. The IEC would include representatives of relevant NO0s, and the report would
be available by June 30 of each year, beginning June 30, 1993. A mid-term review of
the project, by June 30, 1995, would provide an opportunity for full stock-taking and
exchangc of views among the Bank, the Borrower and the State about project performance



- 79 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
and the need for redirection of any activities during the remaining years of the
project. A final assessment of the overall project implementation performance and
impact would be carried out within six months of the project completion date.
11.       The following would be key dates each year, from the standpoint of project
supervisiont
Date           Activitv/Report Due
January 1           Annual Satellite Monitoring Report due to the Bank
January 30          Fourth Quarterly Report covering the period October 1-December 31,
compiled by the State PCU
March 31            Second Semester Report for the preceding year (July 1-December 31)
due to the Bank
(FULL BANK SUPERVISION MISSION IN FEBRUARY/MARCH)
April 30            First Quarterly Report covering the period January 1-March 31,
compiled by the State PCU
June 30             Annual Independent Evaluation Committee Report due to the Bank
June 30             Annual Project Audit Report on preceding financial year due to the
Bank
July 15             Annual budgetary allocatlon for succeeding year presented to the
Bank
(FULL DANK SUPERVISION MISSION/ANNUAL JOINT BANK-GOVERNMENT
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW IN JIJLY)
July 31             Second Quarterly Report coverlng April 1 - June 30, compiled by
the State PCU
September 30        First Semester Report for current year (January 1-June 30) due to
the Bank
October 31          Third Quarterly report covering the period July I-September 30 due
from the PCU
November 15         Draft Annual Operati   Plan for Succeeding Year due to the Bank
for review
(FULL BANK SUPERVISION MISSION IN NOVEMBER/DECEMBER)



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect File
WORKING PAPERS
1      SOCIO-ECONOMIC-ECOLOGICAL ZONING, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING COMPONENTS
2      ACAO FUNDIARIA
3      ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENT
4      MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION OF FOREST RESOURCES
5      PRODEAGRO:  AMERINDIAN COMPONENT
6      AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND RURAL EXTENSION
7      COMPONENTEt  TRANSPORTES
8      RURAL CREDIT COMPONENT
9      PROJECT COSTS TA3LES
10      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
11      FARM MODELS AND ACRICULTURAL PRODUCTION



MAP SECTION



B    R   A    Z    I   L                                                            ,78 h.h., lzt=f
BRAZIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-A
MATO GROS5O                                                                     nf'@AMAZONAS 
AMAZONAS   .   t                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mfiusnwdntmpp ion Ihe
NATURAL RESOURCE                                                                    '         '                                  PARA
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                -h b-d. of
SOCIO-ECONOMIC-ECOLOGICAL                                                                                                                                                                            9 .
ZONING
ZONE I-HEAVILY MECHANIZED AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION, PRINCIPALLY SOYBEAN
F7=  ZONE2 -2INTENSIFICATION OF AGRICULTURAl
L~~~J ~PRODUCTION WITH AGRICULTURAL
DVERSIFICATION
V7ZO   pONE 3-INTENSIFICATION OFAGROCI
POR ESTRYI,
= ZONE 4- LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION                        n                                                                                                                             d( A \
ZONE 5- SUSTANABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT     RONDONIA
El]ZONE 6 - CONSERVAT--' AND PERMANENT
PROTECTION
[I]   ZONE7- INDIGENOUS RESERVES
-    SELECTED ROADS                                                                                                                                               a
0  MAIN TOWNS
-~STATE BOUJNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.~~~~~~~~~~i T_.,_                                                                                                                                     X 7nfino'
!      -t  GROSSO bRGENTINb84:,14,4o ,$t{thS j#,                                                 |                MATO GROSSO DO S
f j A GXOPAR    . IS.
I ARGENTINA                                                                                           MATO BOLVIAROSSO10 1O0S00L17
I ~~~~~               C IDJA&



