Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3492 BR
(Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3492 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1992, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
part of the Project will be carried out by the State of Mato Grosso (the 
State), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to the State the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the State of Mato Grosso;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as subparagraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(b)
"BEMAT" means Banco do Estado de Mato Grosso, the State's bank, 
established by Law No. 396, dated July 31, 1951, of the State;
(c)
"CASEMAT" means Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de Mato Grosso, 
the State's warehouse and silo company, established by Law No. 1.539, dated September 
8, 1961, of the State;
(d)
"CEMAT" means Centrais Eletricas Matogrossenses S.A., the State's 
electricity company, established by Law No. 832, dated August 4, 1956, of the State;
(e)
"CODEMAT" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Mato Grosso, 
the State's development company, established by Law No. 2.615, dated May 23, 1966, of 
the State;
(f)
"CONDEMA" means Conselho Municipal de Defesa do Meio Ambiente, a 
municipal council for environmental defense established by a municipality located in 
the territory of the State, with the participation of representatives of governmental 
organizations and of NGOs (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Conservation Unit" means any of the units referred to in Sections 2.08 
and 2.10 of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(h)
"DVOP" means Departamento de Viacao e Obras Publicas, the State's highway 
and public works department established by Lei Complementar No. 14, dated January 16, 
1992, of the State;
(i)
"EMPAER" means Empresa Matogrossense de Pesquisa, Assistencia e Extensao 
Rural S.A., the State's technical assistance and rural extension enterprise, 
established by Lei Complementar No. 14, dated January 16, 1992, of the State;
(j)
"Executing Entity" means any of the entities listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, participating with the State in the carrying out of the 
Project;
(k)
"FEMA" means Fundacao Estadual do Meio Ambiente, the State's foundation 
for the environment, established by Decree No. 1.225, dated February 7, 1992, of the 
State;
Page  3
(l)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha 
Mercante-AFRMM, the Borrower's freight surcharge for the renewal of the merchant 
marine established by Decree Law 1.142 of
December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge 
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole in part, 
after January 1, 1988;
(m)
"FUNAI" means Fundacao Nacional do Indio, the Borrower's indian national 
foundation, established by Law No. 5.371 of the Borrower, dated December 5, 1967;
(n)
"FUNDAGRO" means Fundo de Desenvolvimento Agroambiental de Mato Grosso, 
the State's agricultural credit fund, to be established by the State pursuant to 
Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined), and 
"FUNDAGRO Operating Manual" means the operating manual referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
of the Project Agreement;
(o)
"INCRA" means Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria, the 
Borrower's national institute for colonization and agrarian reform established by 
Decree-Law No. 1.110 of the Borrower, dated July 9, 1970;
(p)
"INDEA" means Instituto de Defesa Agropecuraria, the State's institute 
for agricultural protection established by Decree No. 1.340, dated March 24, 1992, of 
the State;
(q)
"INTERMAT" means Instituto de Terras do Estado de Mato Grosso, the 
State's land institute, established by Decree No. 1.224, dated February 7, 1992, of 
the State;
(r)
"Mato Grosso EAP" means a set of environmental actions to be carried out 
by the Borrower and the State, all in accordance with the letter from the Borrower and 
the State to the Bank of the
same date herewith;
(s)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization;
 
(t)
"Operating Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered between 
the State and each of the Executing Entities, pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement;
(u)
"Participating Bank"  means BEMAT and any other bank, acceptable to the 
Bank, that has entered into an Operating Agreement for purposes of participating in 
the credit program included in Part
C (iii) of the Project; 
(v)
"Plano de Aplicacao" means the annual plan for the release of funds 
necessary for the carrying out of a POA (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(w)
"PMF" means Batalhao Florestal da Policia Militar do Estado de Mato 
Grosso, the State's forest military police; 
(x)
"POA" means the annual operating plan for the carrying out of the 
activities under the Project;
(y)
"PRODEAGRO" means Projeto de Desenvolvimento Agroambiental do Estado de 
Mato Grosso, the State's agroenvironmental development project;
(z)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the State of 
Mato Grosso of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(aa)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established by Decree No. 
1.265, dated February 26, 1992, of the State;
(bb)
"RFE" means Reserva Florestal Estadual, any forest reserve established or 
to be established by the State;
Page  4
(cc)
"SANEMAT" means Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Mato Grosso, the 
State's sanitation and sewerage company, established by Decree No. 120, dated August 
3, 1966, of the State;
(dd)
"Sarare Action Plan" means the set of actions, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to be carried out by the Borrower and the State in accordance with Section 3.10 of 
this Agreement and Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement, aiming at preventing future 
illegal occupation of the Sarare Indigenous Area (as such term is hereinafter defined) 
and at recuperating the area within and around such Area from the environmental 
damages caused by mining; 
(ee)
"Sarare Indigenous Area" means the indigenous area established by Decree 
No. 91.208, dated April 29, 1985, of the Borrower;
(ff)
"SDR-PR" means Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Regional da Presidencia da 
Republica, the secretariat of regional development of the Borrower's presidency;
(gg)
"SEAAF" means Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e Assuntos Fundiarios, 
the State's secretariat for agriculture and land affairs;
(hh)
"SEC" means Secretaria de Estado de Educacao e Cultura, the State's 
secretariat for education and culture;
(ii)
"SEPLAN" means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral, 
the State's secretariat for planning and general coordination;
(jj)
"SES" means Secretaria de Estado da Saude, the State's secretariat for 
health;
(kk)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(ll)
"State Law" means Law No. 5993, issued by the State on June 3, 1992, 
published on June 3, 1992, establishing the agro-ecological zoning of the territory of 
the State; 
(mm)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through SDR-PR, and the State of Mato Grosso pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(nn)
"UAPT" means Unidade de Armazenamento, Processamento e Transformacao, a 
unit to store and process agricultural products;
(oo)
"UCAC" means Unidade Coordenadora de Armazenamento e Comercializacao, the 
central unit for the coordination of the commercialization of agricultural products 
within SEAAF;
(pp)
"Zone" means an agro-ecological zone established pursuant to the State 
Law; and
(qq)
"Zoro Indigenous Area" means the indigenous area established by Decree 
No. 94.088, 1987, of the Borrower, as ratified by Decree No 265, dated October 29, 
1991, of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred five million dollars ($205,000,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such withdrawal.
Page  5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, through SDR-PR, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco Central on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
Page  6
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i)
through the Subsidiary Agreement, cause the State to carry out the 
Project, with 
the participation of the Executing Agencies, 
with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, health, 
education, 
ecological, conservation and environmental practices and to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary 
Agreement all the obligations of the State therein set 
forth;
(ii)
cause FUNAI and INCRA to enter into Operating Agreements with the 
State pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, and to duly 
perform all their obligations 
under such Operating Agreements 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
to assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such Operating Agreements or any provisions 
thereof; and
(iii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the State to 
perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would 
prevent, or interfere with, such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer part of the proceeds of the Loan to the State 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the State, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by the State 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without in any way limiting any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through SDR-PR:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank:
 
(i)
for review and comments, by not later than October 15, 1992, and 
by July 15 of each 
year thereafter, the annual budgetary allocation 
Page  7
proposal for the carrying out of 
the activities under the Project 
in respect to the immediate following calendar 
year;
 
(ii)
for review and comments, by not later than November 15, 1992, and 
by November 15 of 
each year thereafter, a draft POA for the carrying 
out of the activities under the 
Project in respect to the immediate 
following calendar year, each such POA to 
include, inter alia, 
physical, budget, staffing, training and procurement targets 
for each specific year; and
(iii)
as soon as they are approved, a copy of the annual budgetary 
allocation and POA for 
the forthcoming year; and
 
(b)
take all action, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out each year in accordance with the respective POA.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under the 
General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, through 
SDR-PR, by not later than three months after the close of each semester during the 
fiscal year, the reports prepared by SEPLAN in accordance with Section 2.19 (a) of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by not later than September 30, 1992, through 
SDR-PR, furnish to the Bank, for review and comments, the draft performance indicators 
and operating procedures referred to in Section 2.19 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and by not later than July 31, 1995, the Borrower shall exchange 
views with the Bank and the State, with regard to the progress in the carrying out of 
the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the 
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Operating Agreements, and on the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project, including an analysis of the impact of 
the implementation of the State Law;
(b)
at least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, containing a description of 
the activities carried out by the Borrower and the State with respect to the Project 
and their compliance with their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
Project Agreement, Subsidiary Agreement and Operating Agreements; and
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above exchange of views, the Bank 
reasonably determines that the progress in the execution of the Project, or in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall 
promptly take, or cause to be taken, all such remedial action as shall be necessary 
for the efficient execution of the Project or for the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
necessary to ensure that the Mato Grosso EAP is carried out in an efficient and timely 
manner, to the satisfaction of the
Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than December 31, 1992, carry out a study, in coordination 
with the State, on the feasibility of the enlargement of the existing Conservation 
Unit located in the territory of the State, at the Chapada dos Guimaraes; and
(b)
if so recommended by such studies, promptly take all action necessary to 
enlarge, and thereafter maintain as enlarged, such Conservation Unit, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, in coordination with the State, carry out the 
Sarare Action Plan, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Page  8
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statement of expenditures 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the State will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the State Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived, so as to materially and adversely affect in the opinion of the Bank the 
carrying out of the Project; and
Page  9
(d)
the Borrower, the State or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Executing 
Entities or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the State;
(b)
the Operating Agreements (with the exception of those with Participating 
Banks other than BEMAT) have been executed on behalf of the State and each of the 
Executing Entities;
(c)
PCU has been duly staffed to the satisfaction of the Bank;
 
(d)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central;
 
(e)
all squatters living within the boundaries of the Zoro Indigenous Area 
have been removed from such area;
(f)
all miners and other illegal occupants within and around the Sarare 
Indigenous Area have been removed from such Area; and
(g)
the Sarare Action Plan has been furnished to the Bank.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the State, 
and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the State and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the State in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Operating Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
each respective party thereto and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with their respective terms;
(d)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central; and
 
(e)
that all miners and other illegal occupants have been duly removed from 
the Sarare Indigenous Area.
Section 6.03. The date December 15, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  10
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Brasilia,
Brazil
With copies to:
(i)
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e
              Coordenacao Geral
Palacio Paiaguas
Centro Politico Administrativo (CPA)
78.000 Cuiaba, Mato Grosso
Brazil
Telex:
391-653030
(ii)
Departamento do Tesouro Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios -
Bloco "P" - Anexo - 1o andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611008
(iii)
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
612207
(iv)
Departamento de Desenvolvimento Regional
SDR-PR
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "E" - 7o andar
70062 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
612509
For the Bank:
Page  11
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Wagner Pires de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods, Works and
    Incremental Operat-
    ing Costs:
    (a)  under Part A of      41,000,000        100%
         the Project;
    (b)  under Part B of      46,800,000        100%
         the Project;
    (c)  under Parts C (i),   16,300,000        75%
         (ii) and (iv) of
         the Project; and
    (d)  under Parts D.1       4,700,000        50%
         and 2 of the
         Project
Page  12
(2) Goods and Works           27,200,000        50%
    under Parts D.3, 4
    and 5 of the Project
(3) Rural credit under        22,200,000        75% of amounts
    Part C (iii) of the                         disbursed by
    Project                                     BEMAT or by
                                                another Parti-
                                                cipating Bank
(4) Training, technical       16,900,000        100%
    assistance and studies
(5) Project admini-            6,200,000        75%
    stration under
    Part E of the
    Project
(6) Unallocated               23,700,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               205,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means 
any expenditure made for the operation and maintenance of the equipment and offices 
used in the carrying out of the activities related to the Project, excluding the 
related travel expenses and salaries of staff employed for the carrying out of the 
Project and for their bona fide employment related benefits; and the term "Project 
administration" means any expenditure made by SDR-PR or PCU considered by the Bank as 
related to the carrying out of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 22, 1991;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Part C (iii) of the Project, unless 
the Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that FUNDAGRO has 
been duly established and that it has adopted the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
payments for expenditures under Part D.5 (iii) of the Project, unless the 
Bank shall have received a report, satisfactory to the Bank, assessing the 
environmental impact caused by the paving
of the roads between the municipalities of Araputanga and Jauru, such report to 
contain, inter alia, the recommendations for the necessary corrective actions to be 
taken; and
(d)
payments for expenditures under Part D.5 (iv) of the Project, unless the 
Bank shall have received a report, satisfactory to the Bank, assessing the 
environmental impact caused by the paving
of the road between the municipalities of Lambari and Vila Progresso, through the 
municipality of Vila do Ceu, such report to contain, inter alia, the recommendations 
for the necessary corrective actions to be taken.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and the State in the 
implementation of a sound and improved strategy for natural resource management, 
conservation and environmental protection and for the sustainable development of the 
Page  13
State, under the PRODEAGRO.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Agro-Ecological Zoning and Land Tenure Regularization
 
1.
Preparation and distribution of agro-ecological, climatological, soil and 
topographic maps of the territory of the State.
2.
Carrying out of the cartographic work necessary to enable the creation, 
management and protection of Conservation Units, indigenous reserves and areas for 
RFEs.
3.
Delimitation, demarcation and cadastral registration of about 41,300,000 
hectares of land.
4.
Carrying out of discriminatory works on about 19,200,000 hectares to identify 
public and private lands, to resolve pending administrative questions regarding 
indigenous areas and to identify land suitable for the creation of Conservation Units.
5.
Demarcation of about 1,000 kilometers of conservation areas.
 
6.
Regularization of land titles of about 18,000 smallholders.
 
7.
Provision of training to the staff of SEPLAN on the methodologies and operation 
of agro-ecological zoning and mapping.
Part B:
Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural Resources
 
1.
Implementation of a program of management and conservation of forest resources 
through the:
(i)
identification, establishment and demarcation of RFEs;
 
(ii)
carrying out of a study on nine reserve areas, including forest 
inventory of 
silvicultural species;
 
(iii)
development and carrying out of management plans and detailed 
action program for 
the RFEs;
 
(iv)
design of management plans for private forest lands;
 
(v)
improvement of the licensing and monitoring of the timber industry 
in the State;
(vi)
carrying out of a forestry awareness campaign; and
 
(vii)
provision of training to foresters.
 
2.
Implementation of a program of rationalization of mining activities through the:
 
(i)
carrying out of a study on mining standards and on licensing of 
gold mines;
(ii)
establishment of mining standards and licensing of gold mines 
based on the 
recommendations of the study referred to in 
Part B.2 (i) of the Project;
(iii)
carrying out of research on advanced mining technology;
 
(iv)
establishment of demonstration projects or sites, utilizing new 
technologies for 
gold extraction;
 
(v)
carrying out of health, education and other assistance programs to 
benefit miners; 
and
Page  14
(vi)
mapping of the most fragile areas for gold mining.
 
3.
Implementation of a program to recuperate land to be used as Conservation Units 
through the:
(i)
identification and demarcation of land for tha purpose;
 
(ii)
carrying out of an ecological assessment of such land;
 
(iii)
preparation of a management plan for each new Conservation Unit;
 
(iv)
improvement of the physical infrastructure of each new 
Conservation Unit;
(v)
carrying out of awareness campaigns aimed to the population living 
in the 
neighborhood of such Units; and
 
(vi)
institutional strengthening of FEMA.
 
4.
Implementation of a program aimed at:
 
(i)
alerting the population of the State to existing environmental 
problems and their 
effects; and
 
(ii)
building community support for conservation and sustainable land 
use, including the 
establishment of CONDEMAs.
 
5.
Strengthening of PMF's capabilities in enforcing the environmental legislation 
and in supporting FEMA's mining licensing and monitoring activities, pesticide use and 
other polluting activities.
6.
Implementation of a program to safeguard the areas occupied by indigenous groups 
and to provide health assistance to each group through the:
(i)
demarcation of borders of about 9 indigenous reserves with an 
aggregate area of 
about 1,140,000 hectares and about 1,425 
kilometers of boundaries;
(ii)
renewal of the boundaries of sections of the 38 indigenous 
reserves previously 
demarcated encompassing an area of about 
10,300,000 hectares;
(iii)
identification and protection of isolated indigenous groups and, 
where applicable, 
in accordance with the procedures set by FUNAI, 
identification and demarcation of 
their areas, additionally 
to the demarcation referred to in subparagraph (i) above;
(iv)
strengthening of fixed and mobile monitoring units of FUNAI, for a 
better 
protection of indigenous reserves; and
 
(v)
strengthening of the health services available to indigenous 
groups.
7.
Strengthening of the State's capabilities in monitoring deforestation and in 
inspecting permits necessary to cut areas larger than 25 hectares, in order to 
facilitate the control of forest and environmental protection and to provide the 
Borrower with the information necessary to plan its forestry policy.
8.
Strengthening of the regulatory, enforcement and strategic planning capabilities 
of the State agencies in charge of the carrying out of environmental conservation and 
protection activities, through the:
(i)
development by FEMA of a long-term environmental strategic plan 
for the State;
(ii)
motivation of the participation of local communities in 
Page  15
conservation and protection
activities; and 
(iii)
decentralization of the activities carried out by FEMA.
 
Part C:
Agro-Forestry Development
 
Implementation of an agricultural development program aimed at modernizing the 
agricultural support services rendered by the State, reducing destructive agricultural 
exploitation by maintaining a
stable forest area in the productive areas of the State, reducing the existing fallow 
areas and improving fallow management in areas needed for crop rotation, and 
introducing improved agro-forestry
practices and new crops, through the:
(i)
carrying out of about 260 experiments for perennial crops and 
about 80 experiments 
for agro-forestry, forestry, animal and 
conservation of natural resources;
(ii)
strengthening of EMPAER's capabilities in promoting sustainable 
agricultural production;
(iii)
provision, through FUNDAGRO, of rural credit to finance 
investments and essential 
inputs for diversification into 
perennial crops, other than cocoa and coffee, for 
enrichment of 
secondary growth/forestry fallow areas with valuable wood species, 
and for other on-farm investment; and
(iv)
establishment, within SEAAF, of UCAC, responsible for: (a) 
marketing and prices 
data collection in respect of 
agricultural products, and analysis and development 
of 
information; (b) provision of supporting services to facilitate the contracts 
between sellers and buyers of agricultural products; and (c) provision of 
supporting services to farmers' associations, legally 
constituted, related to the 
construction and management of 
UAPTs.
Part D:
Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services
 
1.
Health Sector:
 
(i)
construction of about 27 new health posts, enlargement of about 15 
existing health 
posts and restoration of about 3 existing health 
posts;
(ii)
acquisition and utilization of equipment for the health posts to 
be constructed and 
enlarged under Part D.1 (i) of the Project and of 
vehicles; and
(iii)
provision of training to health instructors and health assistants.
 
2.
Education Sector:
 
(i)
construction of about 43 new schools of 1 room each and about 47 
new schools of 2 
rooms each, and restoration and enlargement of 
about 110 existing schools;
(ii)
provision of training to about 400 uncertified teachers;
 
(iii)
acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment; and
 
(iv)
introduction of a pilot program on environmental education in 
about 14 schools.
3.
Water Supply Sector:
 
(i)
perforation of about 55 artesian wells;
Page  16
(ii)
construction of about 290 kilometers of water distribution 
network; and
(iii)
provision of training to about 55 well operators.
 
4.
Rural Electrification Sector:
 
(i)
adaptation of the existing installations at the power substations 
located in the 
municipalities of Caceres and Quatro Marcos 
and installation of about 527 
kilometers of distribution 
network; and
(ii)
adaptation of the existing installations at the power substation 
located in the 
municipality of Rondonopolis and installation 
of about 155 kilometers of 
distribution network.
 
5.
Roads Sector:
 
(i)
carrying out of a rehabilitation program of about 3,000 kilometers 
of State roads;
(ii)
carrying out of a rehabilitation program of about 4,500 kilometers 
of municipal 
roads;
 
(iii)
paving of about 55 kilometers of the existing gravel road between 
Araputanga and 
Jauru;
 
(iv)
paving of about 69 kilometers of the existing gravel road between 
Lambari and Vila 
Progresso, through Salto do Ceu;
 
(v)
provision of training to DVOP and CODEMAT staff on roads 
management and 
administration;
 
(vi)
assessing the environmental impact of the carrying out of Parts 
D.5 (iii) and (iv) 
of the Project;
 
(vii)
strengthening of the capabilities of the Coordenadoria Ambiental 
established within 
DVOP in assessing the environmental impact of road 
services in the State; and
(viii) carrying out of a study on the establishment of a permanent road 
maintenance system.
 
Part E:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of SDR-PR and PCU, especially on 
monitoring and evaluation.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Executing Entities participating in the carrying out of the Project:
Part of the Project                 Executing Entities
A.1 and A.2                         SEPLAN and INTERMAT
A.3, A.4, A.5 and A.6               INTERMAT and INCRA
A.7                                 SEPLAN
B.1                                 FEMA and PMF
B.2, B.3 and B.4                    FEMA
B.5                                 PMF
B.6                                 FUNAI
B.7                                 SEPLAN
Page  17
B.8                                 FEMA
C (i) and (ii)                      EMPAER
C (iii)                             BEMAT and other Participating
                                    Banks
C (iv)                              SEAAF
D.1                                 SES
D.2                                 SEC
D.3                                 SANEMAT
D.4                                 CEMAT
D.5                                 CODEMAT and DVOP
E                                   SDR-PR and PCU
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1998
through September 15, 2007
10,250,000
_________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day 
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
Page  18
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturing
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  19
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
