Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3492 BR
(Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MATO GROSSO
Dated September 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3492 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MATO GROSSO (the State).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred five million 
dollars ($205,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that the State agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through SDR-PR, and the State, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to the State on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out, with the participation 
of the Borrower, through SDR-PR, FUNAI and INCRA, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, health, 
education, ecological, conservation and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under this Section 
2.01, the State shall carry out, and cause BEMAT and other Participating Banks to 
carry out, Part C (iii) of the Project, in accordance with the FUNDAGRO Operating 
Manual.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The State shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without any limitation upon any of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the State shall:
(i)
enter into the Subsidiary Agreement with the Borrower, through 
SDR-PR, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(ii)
enter into Operating Agreements with all Executing Entities listed 
in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the 
Bank, the Operating Agreement to be 
entered into between the State and INCRA to 
contain, inter alia, 
the obligation of the parties to ensure that the land 
regularization policies and practices to be observed in the State are consistent 
with terms and conditions of the State Law and with sound forest 
protection and 
management practices;
 
(iii)
perform, in a timely manner, all of its respective obligations 
under the Subsidiary
Agreement or under any of the Operating Agreements; and
(iv)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not take or concur in 
any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary 
Agreement, any of the Operating 
Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Operating 
Page  3
Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by the State of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Operating 
Agreements.
Section 2.06. The State shall, by not later than June 30, 1994, prepare, in 
consultation with the Secretaria de Assuntos Estrategicos of the Borrower's 
presidency, and furnish to the Bank agro-ecological, soil and topographic maps of its 
territory, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. The State shall, by not later than September 30, 1992, prepare and 
present to its Legislative Assembly, for approval, proposed legislation on land use 
and on environment, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. The State shall:
(i)
by not later than June 30, 1994, establish and thereafter maintain 
RFEs and 
Conservation Units, in all areas identified as 
suitable by the works to be carried 
out under Parts A.2 and A.4 of 
the Project, during the first year of the execution 
of the Project; and
 
(ii)
by not later than June 30, 1995, establish and thereafter maintain 
additional REFs 
and Conservation Units in all other areas identified 
as suitable by such works, 
during the second year of the 
execution of the Project;
provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, and based on the works 
referred to above, the minimum number of REFs and Conservation Units to be established 
until June 30, 1995, shall be
nine and sixteen, respectively.
Section 2.09. The State shall:
(a)
by not later than April 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for 
review and comments, a draft plan containing the actions to be taken by the State to 
ensure that the sustainable
management of privately owned forest areas in its territory shall be consistent with 
the State Law; and
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1993, furnish to the Bank such plans of action 
and start the implementation of, and thereafter implement, such plans of action, 
taking into account the Bank's
comments.
Section 2.10. The State shall, in coordination with the Borrower, carry out the 
Sarare Action Plan, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.11. The State shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, and make 
available to the public, by not later than January 1, 1993, and by January 1 of each 
year thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, a report on the 
satellite monitoring of the rate and location of deforestation that occurred in the 
territory of the State in the immediate preceding year, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.12. (a) The State shall establish and thereafter maintain FUNDAGRO, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and shall cause FUNDAGRO to carry 
out its operations in accordance with the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(b)
The State shall not amend the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual, or shall have 
the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual amended, in a form to materially and adversely affect in 
the opinion of the Bank the
carrying out of the Project.
Page  4
(c)
The State shall, by not later than June 30, 1993, and by June 30 of each 
year thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, for review, a report on 
the evaluation of the performance of FUNDAGRO in the immediate preceding year, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.13. The State shall maintain, within SEPLAN, the PCU, with 
organization, structure, functions and staff, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.14. The State shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain, until the Project shall have been 
completed, an independent evaluation committee (the Independent Evaluation Committee) 
which shall include representatives of relevant local NGOs, with the participation of 
the Borrower, through SDR-PR and its Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento, 
such Committee to review, inter alia: (i) the implementation of the environmental 
policy and regulatory reforms being carried out under the Project; (ii) the 
compatibility of the annual public (federal and state) investments in the State with 
the objectives of the State Law; and (iii) the impact of the carrying out of the 
Project in the territory of the State; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank, for review and comment, by not later than June 30, 
1993, and by June 30 of each year thereafter, a report by the Independent Evaluation 
Committee, containing the recommendations of such Committee.
Section 2.15. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and by not later than July 31, 1995, the State shall exchange 
views with the Borrower and the Bank, with regard to the progress in carrying out the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Agreement and the Operating Agreements, and on the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project, including analyzing the impact of the implementation of the 
State Law.
(b)
If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank reasonably 
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, the State shall promptly take, or 
cause to be taken, all such remedial action as shall be necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or for the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.16. The State shall: (a) ensure that policy reforms under the Mato 
Grosso EAP shall be enforced throughout the duration of the Project; (b) ensure that 
its investment program, which currently takes into account land use capabilities, 
ecological and agro-ecological zoning considerations, shall, at each annual update 
thereof, be maintained consistent with such considerations and compatible with such 
zoning; and (c) by September 30 in each year during the execution of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, any intended update of such 
investment program for the forthcoming year.
Section 2.17. The State shall:
(a)
provide the maintenance required for the works and equipment included in 
Parts D.4, D.5 (i), (iii) and (iv) of the Project; and
(b)
enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
municipality in which Parts D.1, D.2, D.3 and D.5 (ii) of the Project shall be carried 
out, before starting the execution of such Part of the Project in each such 
municipality, each such arrangements to contain, inter alia, the obligation of the 
respective municipality to provide the maintenance required for the
works performed under such Part of the Project, starting one year after its respective 
execution.
Section 2.18. The State shall, by not later than September 30, 1992, establish 
and thereafter maintain a unit, within DVOP, with the functions, inter alia, to assess 
the environmental impact of the
road services in the territory of the State.
Page  5
Section 2.19. The State shall through SEPLAN:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, through SDR-PR, by not later than 
three months after the close of each semester during the Borrower's fiscal year, 
reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, 
summarizing, in each report, the progress in the carrying out of the Project during 
each such semester;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, through SDR-PR, by not later than 
September 30, 1992, draft performance indicators and operating procedures for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the activities carried out under the Project; and
(c)
adopt such indicators and procedures, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, by not later than December 31, 1992.
Section 2.20. The State shall inform the Borrower of any proposed amendment to 
this Agreement prior to entering into any such amendment.
Section 2.21. The State shall, in coordination with the Borrower, cause to be 
carried out:
(a)
by not later than December 31, 1992, a study containing an analysis of 
the socioeconomic and environmental indicators of at least three municipalities 
located in the area where the Project
shall be implemented; and
(b)
by not later than July 31, 1995, and upon the completion of the Project, 
two follow-up studies, comparing the indicators referred to in paragraph (a) above 
with the new indicators at the
time of each respective follow-up study.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The State shall maintain or cause the Executing Agencies to 
maintain through the respective Operating Agreement, records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The State shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the State shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
Page  6
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statement of expenditures 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the State:
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
   e Coordenacao Geral
Palacio Paiaguas
Centro Politico Administrativo (CPA)
78.000 Cuiaba, Mato Grosso
Brazil
Page  7
Telex:
391-653030
With Copies to:
(i)
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
612207
(ii)
Departamento de Desenvolvimento Regional
SDR-PR
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "E" - 7o andar
70062 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
612509
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may 
be taken or executed by the
Secretary of Planning and Coordination of the State or such other person or persons as 
such Secretary shall designate in writing, and the Secretary of Planning and 
Coordination of the State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MATO GROSSO
By /s/ Jayme Verisimo de Campos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  8
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and 
the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in 
Brazil equal to a least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
 
(ii)
Group B: bid offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the C.I.F. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the C.I.F. 
bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory evaluated bid price of goods 
supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: 
(A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the 
goods offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the 
bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; 
or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid
from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $41,500,000, and, except as 
provided in paragraph 3 below, goods and equipments, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $500,000, but more than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $20,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Works, other than for roads, estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
Page  9
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$6,000,000, may be executed by force account, for which only the materials shall be 
financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
3.
Other goods and equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,200,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three supplies eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part A of this Schedule 
and to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, 
and to each contract for the
acquisition of rural electrification equipment and of aircraft estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the State and the Executing Agencies in the carrying out of 
the Project, the State shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III:  Other
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
