                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31690

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-39520 SCL-39530)

                                                ON TWO

                                                 LOANS

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 88.0 AND US$ 57.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                 EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA

                                                FOR THE

          SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                              May 11, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 1
Colombia and Mexido
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = peso
                                     Col $ 1.00 = US$ 0.0004
                                      US$ 1.00 = Col$ 2390

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     to December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




EAAB Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá
     Bogota Water and Sewerage Company
CRA  Comisión de Regulación de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico
     Water Supply and Sanitation Regulatory Commission
DAMA Departamento Técnico Administrativo de Medio Ambiente
     Environmental Technical Department
ERR  Economic Rate of Return
FRR  Financial Rate of Return
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  Implementation Completion Report
NBF  Not Bank Financed
NPV  Net Present Value
OED  Operations Evaluation Department
PCR  Project Completion Report
QAG  Quality Assurance Group
SAR  Staff Appraisal Report
UFW  Unaccounted-for-Water




                               Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                             Country Director:     Isabel Guerrero
                              Sector Manager:      John Henry Stein
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Menahem Libhaber

                                         COLOMBIA
  SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          33
Annex 9. Maps IBRD 26608, 25737, 25738, 25739, 25740, 25741, 25742, 25743        45

Project ID: P006894                                                  Project Name: Santafe I Water Supply and Sewerage
                                                                     Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Menahem Libhaber                                        TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Santafe I Water Supply and Sewerage                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-39520; SCL-39530
                            Rehabilitation Project
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (41%); Sanitation (30%); Water supply (27%); Other
                            social services (2%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Other financial and private sector development (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/07/1993                                     Effective: 03/18/1996                03/18/1996
     Appraisal: 11/29/1993                                         MTR:                             10/10/1997
      Approval: 11/16/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/EAAB
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Eugene D. McCarthy
Team Leader at ICR:             Menahem Libhaber                               R. Venkateswaran
ICR Primary Author:             Bernardo Gomez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Loan Agreements, the project objectives were to: (i) support and consolidate the
transition of Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá (EAAB) from a public service
agency to a commercially-run public utility company; (ii) support a revamped economic and tariff
framework; (iii) expand water distribution and sewerage services to the poor; (iv) address major
environmental concerns of the heavily polluted Bogota River; and (v) reduce the vulnerability of
the Bogota water supply and sewerage system.

The above objectives were highly relevant in helping the national and Bogota District
governments in achieving their priorities within the context of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy. In fact, the project objectives, with their emphasis on institutional strengthening,
environmental improvement, and poverty alleviation were designed to help the national and
Bogota District governments in consolidating and deepening the ongoing structural reform
program, improving the delivery of basic services to the poor, and addressing the degradation of
the natural resource base through the implementation of environmental protection programs and
policies.

In assessing the viability of the project objectives, it is also necessary to look at the Bank's prior
experience with EAAB, as well as the project framework for evaluating progress in achieving its
objectives. The Santafe I was the fifth Bank-financed project for EAAB. The fourth project
(Fourth Bogota Project - Loan 2512 ­ CO) was closed two-and-half years before Board approval
of the Santafe I. The objectives of both projects were similar, as both aimed basically at
strengthening EAAB's institutional capability, expanding water and sewer services to the poor,
and reducing the vulnerability of the Bogota water supply system. The Project Implementation
Report (PCR) of the Fourth Bogota Project rated the project as marginally satisfactory, of
uncertain sustainability, and of negligible institutional impact.

The less than fully satisfactory experience with the Fourth Bogota Project suggests the need for
the Bank to put special emphasis in sharply defining the Santafe I project objectives and the
corresponding impact indicators. This Project Implementation Report (ICR) found, however, that
this is not the case, as the SAR includes impact indicators and targets only for the vulnerability
objective (the completion of two major works: the Tibito Water Supply System and the Back-up
Usaquen Tunnel), and impact indicators but no targets for the poverty alleviation objective
(number of new water and sewerage connections in low-income areas).

Other impact indicators in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) are, at best, indirectly related to the
project objectives and do not include specific targets. These indicators are: flood control, which
is to be evaluated by the number of hectares and population benefited by the project;
environmental improvement to be evaluated by the number of hectares of wetland protected; and
efficiency improvements to be evaluated by the cost per m3 of water produced and billed.

The lack of a clear definition of the project objectives was particularly unfortunate in the case of
the institutional objective [objective (i) in the Loan Agreements], as it contributed to
misunderstandings and tensions between EAAB and the Bank during project implementation.



                                                  - 2 -

The misunderstandings and tensions emerged from the different interpretations of EAAB and the
Bank of the extent and form of private sector participation in the provision of services and
operation of Bogota's water and sewerage systems. This issue is discussed later in this ICR.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project development objectives remained unchanged throughout project
implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consists of eight main components, which, at the Bank's request, were split in two
phases, whereby each phase included only part of each one of the original project components
included in the single-phase project. Both phases were expected to include Bank financing
through consecutive lending operations. The Bank's request to split the project in two phases
resulted from the recognition of the uncertainties surrounding the ongoing sector reform and its
impact on EAAB's operations and financial performance. The Bank's participation in the second
phase was contingent on EAAB's performance in the first phase. The Bank's decision to
implement the project in two phases was taken after appraisal and shortly after negotiations, and
therefore drew some criticism by the borrower. The project components are outlined below and
detailed in Annex 1c:

    A. Vulnerability control
    B. Primary sanitary and storm water drainage and pollution control
    C. Primary water distribution system
    D. Secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks and service connections
    E. Rehabilitation of secondary networks
    F. Institutional strengthening of EAAB
    G. Technical assistance for institutional reform, engineering, design and supervision of works
    H. Environmental protection and improvement

The project components are closely linked to the project objectives. The objectives of
strengthening EAAB's institutional capability and revamping EAAB's economic and tariff
framework are addressed by the project through investment in the technical assistance program
(Components F and G).

The objective of poverty reduction is addressed by the project through the expansion and
rehabilitation of primary and secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks, and installation
of service connections (Components B, C, D and E). Provision of water connections reduce the
high expenses paid by the poor for purchase of water from private providers prior to getting
connected, reduce the risk of contamination by polluted water and improve the standard of living
of the newly connected poor.

The objective of addressing environmental concerns of the polluted Bogota River is addressed by
the project through the investments in primary sanitary and storm water drainage systems, in the
rehabilitation of dikes on the left bank of the river, and in the protection of the wetlands
(Component B).




                                                  - 3 -

The objective of reducing the risk of EAAB being unable to meet water demand is addressed
through the rehabilitation of the Tibito System, including the water treatment plant and the 2m
diameter conveyance pipe which was undergoing a corrosion process, and through the
construction of the backup tunnel for conveying treated water from the Wiesner Water Treatment
plant to the city (Component A).

3.4 Revised Components:
The eight components of the original project remained unchanged during project implementation,
but the concept of implementing the project in two phases was dropped, and some works planned
for the second phase were advanced and carried out as part of the single-phase project. The end
result is that EAAB completed investments amounting to 84% of the total cost of the original two
phases. The above changes are outlined below and presented in detail in Annex 1c.

First, the works under the first phase of the vulnerability control program were carried out but
they were not financed by the Bank loan, as EAAB entered into a Built Operate Transfer (BOT)
contract with a private firm for rehabilitating and operating the Tibito System, which includes the
water treatment plant and the pipeline to convey water to the city. The second element of the
vulnerability reduction program, the construction of the Usaquen back-up tunnel and the
associated 12 MW hydropower plant was advanced from the original second phase, and financed
by the Bank loan. In advancing this component, EAAB decided, with Bank's concurrence, to
directly contract the construction of the tunnel and the hydropower plant without carrying out
studies of alternatives for private sector participation in the construction and operation of the
tunnel and the plant.

Second, the number of Bank-financed water and sewerage connections, as well as the number of
installed domestic meters were below the target, but the shortfall was more than compensated by
the new connections installed through the municipal Community Participation Program (Gestion
Comunitaria), and through the contracts with the three private firms hired by EAAB to provide
commercial services and operate small-diameter water networks in the EAAB's service area.

Third, the project exceeded the physical targets under most project components by advancing to
the first phase works which were originally planned for the second phase. These additional works
were financed by funds released from the Tibito system and by additional contributions from
EAAB's internal cash generation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory because of the relevance of the project objectives and
the consistency between objectives and components. The project was not rated as highly
satisfactory because of weaknesses in the framework for project evaluation, as discussed in
Section 3.1, and because of the poor timing of the Bank's decision to split the original project in
two phases. The following paragraphs elaborate on these points, except private sector
participation, which is discussed in the supervision section (Section 7.2).

The relevance of the project objectives and design is illustrated by two main observations. First,
the project recognized the importance assigned by the Colombian authorities to strong institutions
and organizations, as reflected in the broad public sector reform launched by the Gaviria


                                                  - 4 -

Administration on taking office in mid-1990s. This reform rests on a solid legal framework, as it
is rooted in the 1991 Constitution. Second, the water and sanitation sector reform, which was
underway at the time of project preparation and appraisal, constituted a strong basis for project
design, as the reform included the establishment of a regulatory water agency, a consumer's rights
protection superintendence, and up-to-date pricing and subsidies policies.

The project was also part of a plan agreed by the national and District governments to rescue
EAAB from the deep financial crisis it was facing since the early 1990s. This plan included the
government refinancing almost the entire EAAB's foreign debt service coming due in the second
half of 1993, and in the years 1994 to 1997. The plan was part of a legally binding performance
plan.

The project was also part of the District's economic and social priorities as outlined in the
development plan for the 1995-1998 period (Decree No. 295 of June 1, 1995). These priorities
include: improving the quality of life for the poor; increasing public space; rationalizing urban
growth; promoting community development; and promoting institutional strengthening.

The project fully complied with the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies. Detailed
resettlement guidelines were agreed between the Bank and EAAB during loan negotiations.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. This rating requires, however, an
explanation. Given that the loan documentation does not include adequate indicators for project
outcomes, the ICR takes, when appropriate, project outputs as proxies for the achievement of
project objectives. This approach is justified because the outcomes (benefits) of the project are
closely related to the completion of the works and to the satisfactory operation of the resulting
assets. Accordingly, the fact that EAAB significantly exceeded the physical targets (outputs)
under the project is taken as evidence that the objectives were met. EAAB's progress toward
achieving the five specific objectives stated in the Loan Agreements is outlined below. The
output indicators included in the SAR are summarized in Table 1a of Annex 1.

Objective 1: Supporting and consolidating the transition of the borrower from a public service
agency to a commercially run public utility company

EAAB made substantial progress toward the key project objective of transforming itself into a
utility sensitive to the demands of the market, and with a corporate culture based on professional
responsibility and accountability. One remarkable aspect of this progress is that it was achieved
without EAAB changing its status of public utility subject to political interference, as the
District's mayor continues having almost total control of EAAB. This accomplishment can, in
turn, be attributed to the responsible behavior of the District administrations which were in office
during the project implementation period.

One important indicator of EAAB's sensitivity to the demands of the market was the utility's
decision to improve customer's services through the hiring of private firms to provide customer's



                                                  - 5 -

services, including billing and collection, and operation and maintenance of small diameter water
networks. The five contracts with three private firms were signed and became effective in 2003,
and have resulted in significant improvements in service quality, as reflected in the easy access by
the customers to the five customer service centers located in different parts of the city (as
opposed to only one before the contracts), the prompt attention to customers inquiries and
complaints, and the reduction in the number of complaints.

EAAB has also established a sophisticated planning department and modern management
information systems trough the implementation of the SAP software.

EAAB also promoted the participation of private sector capital and expertise in the provision of
services through the 20-year BOT contract signed and implemented with a private operator for
the rehabilitation, and operation and maintenance of the Tibito Water Supply System.

EAAB has been less successful in increasing efficiency as measured by the SAR indicators (cost
per m3 produced and sold). In fact, unitary costs more than double in real terms during the
project implementation period (from Col$ 314 per m3 produced in 1996 to Col$ 833 in 2003; and
from Col$ 465 to Col$ 1,343 per m3 sold in 2003, all at 1996 prices). The above indicators are,
however, of limited relevance for evaluating EAAB's management's performance, as they do not
discriminate between cost and expenses controllable and non controllable by EAAB's
management in the short- to medium-term. The depreciation charges provide a good illustration
of the above point, as they increased from Col$ 23 per m3 sold in 1996 to Col$ 187 in 2003 (both
at 1996 prices) or from 5% to 15% of total cost per m3 sold. This substantial increase was due to
EAAB's updating and revaluation of its fixed assets, and to the investments carried out in the
1996-2003 period. It was also due in a smaller part to the reduction in the volume of water sales
(from 375 million m3 in 1996 to 283 million m3 in 2003).

The unitary cost increase is also due to EAAB's political and legal restrictions to reduce
personnel costs in the short-term. An example of this point is provided by EAAB's actions to
reduce personnel to compensate for the reduction of the workload for its staff resulting from the
hiring of the private firms to provide customer services. The reductions achieved were through
staff voluntary retirement, which in the end was less than expected by EAAB's management.

The efficiency changes may be evaluated also using the operational, financial and commercial
indicators proposed in the SAR to monitor EAAB's performance. See comments below and
further details in Annex 1b.

The unaccounted-for-water indicator was on target during the first four years (1996-1999) of
project implementation, but deteriorated in the following years. This apparent deterioration is due
to the use of an indicator, which, since the time of appraisal, has become outdated in the
specialized literature. One of the problems with the indicator used is that, in an environment of
contracting water demand and production, it is most likely that the unaccounted-for-water or
non-revenue-water as a percentage of total production increases even though the losses in
absolute terms decrease, as was the case in EAAB. In fact, EAAB's unaccounted-for water
decreased from 184 million m3 in 1996 to 167 million m3 in 2003, which is the same as estimated



                                                 - 6 -

at appraisal, or from 14 m3 per connection month in 1996 to 10 m3 per connection month in 2003
(9 m3 estimated at appraisal ­ see graph in Annex 1b).

EAAB has improved its working ratio but not enough to achieve the SAR targets. EAAB's
liquidity has been highly satisfactory and above expectations as a consequence of the high
revenues resulting from the higher than expected tariff levels. EAAB's bill collection ratio
exceeded appraisal expectations with the exception of the early stages of the SAP implementation.
Although the SAR target of working ratio was not achieved, it had no impact on the financial
performance of EAAB since the SAR target was probably too stringent.

Objective 2: Supporting a revamped economic and tariff framework

EAAB made substantial progress toward this objective. It was able to transform itself into a
financially viable utility able to provide first-class services to its customers, and also able to attract
private capital and managerial skills to the provision of water and sewerage services. First, EAAB
recovered itself from the deep financial crisis, which led to the government rescue of the entity in
the early 1990s, as part of the recovery package which included the Bank Loan. Second, EAAB
has been able to access the capital markets in favorable terms based on the AA+ credit rating by
Duff and Phelps of Colombia. Third, as an outcome of its financial strengthening, EAAB was
able to implement an investment program between 1996 and 2003 amounting to about one billion
dollars, with limited Bank financing (US$ 144 million or 14% of total investments). All the above
was made possible by the substantive average tariff increases in real terms during the project
implementation period. The cross subsidies implicit in the tariff structure remain in effect.

Objective 3: Expanding water distribution and sewerage services to the urban poor

This objective was fully achieved, as EAAB has been able to satisfy the demand for water and
sanitation services to 100% and 90% respectively, of the population living in formal settlements of
the city. This accomplishment was the result of a substantial effort by EAAB, as it provided
water and sewerage services to about 2.0 million additional inhabitants in the period 1996-2003.
Most of the additional population served was in the income strata 1 to 3, defined as poor in the
SAR (the domestic customers in Colombia are classified in six categories according to income
levels, with 1 corresponding to the lowest income level and 6 to the highest): 1.8 million
additional inhabitants in strata 1 to 3 were provided with water services and 1.7 million were
provided with sewerage services. An estimated 600,000 inhabitants living in informal settlements
have yet to be serviced by EAAB and, thus, they currently meet their water and sanitation needs
with ad-hoc solutions.

EAAB's accomplishments in service coverage were facilitated by the project investments in water
and sewerage networks and service connections. The number of connections installed by EAAB
under the project was, however, relatively small (24,000 water connections out of a total of
348,000, and 46,000 sewerage connections out of a total of 393,000), as EAAB decided to carry
out this task through the Community Participation Program and through the contracts with the
private firms providing commercial services and operating small-diameter water networks.




                                                   - 7 -

Objective 4: Addressing major environmental concerns of the heavily polluted Bogota River

EAAB made progress toward achieving this objective, as it was able to protect a significant area
of wetlands, which was one of the main project objectives, and to mainstream modern and
effective environmental and resettlement practices. Progress in protecting wetlands was achieved
through the construction of primary sanitary drainage systems which divert wastewater from
Torca, Guaymaral, Salitre, La Conejera, Jaboque y Chucua La Vaca wetlands (542 hectares).
Furthermore, EAAB carried out inventory and diagnostic studies of an additional 260 hectares of
wetland in its service area.

Progress in mainstreaming innovative environmental and resettlement practices has been achieved
through a series of actions taken by EAAB, including the following: first, establishing an
environmental unit. Second, issuing a manual of environmental management practices to be
applied by EAAB and its contractors. Third, carrying out public events to raise the profile of
environmental issues. These events included visits by environmental groups, students,
communities, and national and local authorities to the wetlands and other environmentally related
projects. The events included also the organization by EAAB of an international conference on
wetlands (May 2003), and the participation of EAAB's staff in international conferences like the
Eighth Conference of the Ramsar Convention (November 2002). In addition, EAAB published
under the project a book on the wetlands in Bogota, which is being widely distributed to schools
and universities.

The high quality of the work carried out by EAAB in environmental and resettlement matters has
been widely recognized. Two important recognitions are: first, the "Green Award" conferred to
EAAB by the Bank because of the entity's innovative and sound environmental and resettlement
practices and, second, the award conferred to EAAB by the Colombian Society of Engineers in
recognition of the work done to protect Bogota's hydraulic systems through the wetlands
protection.

Objective 5: Reducing the vulnerability of the Bogota water supply and sewerage systems

This objective was fully achieved through the construction of the Usaquen back-up tunnel for
conveying treated water from the Bogota's main treatment plant (Wiesner plant) to the city, and
through the rehabilitation of the second largest water treatment plant (Tibito Water Supply
System). The Usaquen back-up tunnel together with the Suba Storage Tank (90,000 m3) and the
2.2 m water main, all built under the project, make the water supply system highly safe, as
through this system EAAB will be able to distribute 100% of the current water demand.

The Tibito Water Supply System was part of the first phase of the project, while the back-up
tunnel was part of the second phase. EAAB was able to advance the construction of the back-up
tunnel because of the availability of funds released by the BOT contract for the Tibito System.

4.2 Outputs by components:
EAAB exceeded the physical targets under the project, and they were accomplished with high
standards of quality, with due regard to environmental and social considerations. Following is a
brief outline of the outputs by project component. Further details, including physical targets and


                                                 - 8 -

accomplishments are included in Annex 1c.

Component A ­ Vulnerability Control ­ (US$ 106.6 million or 111 percent of appraisal
estimate for the two original phases ­ 146 percent of first phase).

The physical targets were achieved, as indicated in Section 4.1, Objective 5. The 12 MW
hydroelectric power plant built at the end of the Usaquen back-up tunnel has been connected to
the national energy interconnection system and it generates a positive cash flow for EAAB.

Component B ­ Primary sanitary and storm water drainage and pollution control ­ (US$
163.5 million or 99 percent of appraisal estimate for the two original phases ­ 156 percent of
first phase).

The physical targets were exceeded in the case of sewage interceptors, trunk sewers and storm
water drainage systems. The targets were achieved in the case of sewage pumping stations, storm
water peak attenuation reservoirs, rehabilitation of dikes on the left bank of the Bogotá River, and
the first section of the Bogotá River Interceptor (Torca-Salitre stretch).

Component C ­ Primary water distribution systems ­ (US$ 68.5 million or 67 percent of
appraisal estimate for the two original phases ­ 208 percent of first phase).

The physical targets were exceeded in the case of primary distribution mains. The targets were
achieved in the case of storage tanks, pumping stations, and storage reservoirs. All the water
distribution systems built under the project are operated electronically. In addition, EAAB,
without Bank assistance, is preparing bidding documents for the purchase and installation of an
electronic control center for the whole water distribution system.

Component D ­ Secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks, and service connections
(US$ 100.0 million or 61 percent of appraisal estimate for the two original phases ­ 140
percent of first phase).

The physical targets were exceeded in the case of secondary water distribution mains, sewage
collectors and storm water drains. The service water and sewer connections financed out of the
loan proceeds were substantially below appraisal estimates: 24,000 water connections out of
70,000 estimated at appraisal, and 46,000 sewerage connections out of 100,000 estimated at
appraisal. The total number of service connections constructed by EAAB during the project
implementation period was, however, much higher than that financed under the project: 348,000
water connections, and 393,000 sewer connections.

Component E ­ Rehabilitation works of secondary networks (US$ 27.4 million or 61 percent
of appraisal estimate for the two original phases ­ 147 percent of first phase).

The physical targets were exceeded in the case of both sewerage works and water distribution
pipes.




                                                 - 9 -

Component F ­ Institutional strengthening (US$ 31.5 million or 60 percent of appraisal
estimate for the two original phases ­ 60 percent of first phase).

The number of domestic meters purchased and installed under the project was substantially below
appraisal estimates: 425,000 out of 780,000 estimated at appraisal. The difference was made up
by meters purchased and installed by EAAB's contractors for commercial services and operation
and maintenance of small diameter networks. It was EAAB's management decision not to use
Bank funds for purchasing the agreed number of domestic meters. The following activities were
also carried out under the institutional strengthening component of the project: (i) development of
a water conservation program focused on researching and formulating alternatives for managing
water demand; (ii) development and implementation of a training program for staff; (iii) purchase
of laboratory equipment and radio communication; (iv) formulation of a strategy for developing
information systems, specifically a financial information system, and purchase of software and
hardware; (v) creation of a committee within EAAB for environmental protection and
development of institutional capacity for undertaking environmental audits.

Component G ­ Technical assistance (US$ 73.3 million or 82 percent of appraisal estimate for
the two original phases ­ 148 percent of first phase).

EAAB contracted consultants for a number of activities, including meters cadastre, sectoring the
water distribution system, project design and supervision, and institutional strengthening.

Component H ­ Environmental protection and improvement (US$ 31.1 or 275 percent of
appraisal estimate for the two original phases ­ 275 percent of first phase).

EAAB carried out diagnostic studies of 766 hectares of wetlands, and improved 542 hectares
through the construction of the Salitre, Rio Bogotá, Torca and Jaboche interceptors. EAAB also
constructed 40 kms of parks along the drainage channels financed under the project; participated
in educational programs; and mainstreamed environmental protection measures during the
construction of infrastructure works. These activities had a positive impact on watershed
management as the project contributed to recuperate flora and fauna and reclaimed these areas as
public space. EAAB adopted a resettlement policy that was successfully implemented and created
two units to support it: (i) the Real Estate Unit, which is responsible for land acquisition and
resettlement; and (ii) the Community Outreach Unit, which is responsible for social
communication programs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the net benefit stream is re-estimated at a satisfactory rate of 12%,
though below appraisal estimate (17%). Both the appraisal and the re-estimated rates of return
are conservative, as they do not include a number of non-readily quantifiable benefits which
include health improvements, reduction of the contamination of the main water courses and the
preservation of wetlands; the cost savings from postponed investments, which are significant in
the case of EAAB as a result of the reduction in per capita water consumption; increased property
values in previously flood prone areas; and benefits associated with the institutional strengthening
of EAAB's capacity to plan and manage its resources.



                                                 - 10 -

An indication of the environmental benefits not captured by the re-estimated rate of return of the
project is provided by the economic evaluation of investments in two wetlands under the project
(Juan Amarillo and Cordoba), which was carried out by EAAB in cooperation with a local
university. In accordance with this evaluation, which was carried out applying the "contingency
evaluation" methodology, the benefit-cost ratio of the Juan Amarillo wetland was 1.8, while the
one for Cordoba was 9.6.

The rate of return was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and incremental benefits during
the period 1996-2025. Incremental costs are taken as those of EAAB's total investments during
the project implementation period, 1996-2003, at 1996 prices (excluding import duties and VAT),
plus the incremental operations and maintenance costs of the water and sewerage services
provided during the period 1996-2025, also at 1996 prices (excluding taxes and depreciation
charges). These incremental operations and maintenance cost of services provided is defined as
the operation and maintenance costs per year, less the operation and maintenance costs for the
year before project implementation (1995). Incremental benefits are the incremental revenues
during the project implementation period obtained from sales over and above the 1995 level.

The costs and benefits from project-related investments and from other investments carried out by
EAAB were not separated because of a number of reasons. First, during project implementation
period EAAB implemented investments other than the ones under the project, but of a similar
nature to the ones under the project, for an amount equivalent to about 65% of the project
investments (US$ 1 billion total investments vis-à-vis US$ 602 million under the project). It was
difficult to quantify separately the benefits from the works financed under the project and from
works carries out by other investments of EAAB.

Second, the investments in water and sewerage connections, which are the ones that, in the end,
generate revenue to EAAB, were financed mainly outside the project, but they were feasible only
because of the project investments in water and sewerage networks and, thus, it is not practical to
try to separate the benefits.

And, third, there were many changes in EAAB's external environment, which make it difficult to
separate the benefits attributable to the project, from the changes resulting from the external
environment, including the establishment of the regulatory agency, the consumer's rights
superintendence, and the new tariff policy at the national level.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project institutional development impact is rated as substantial because of progress made by
EAAB in several areas of its operations during the project implementation period. It is not rated
as high, despite this progress, because the project did not achieve any significant change in the
political nature of EAAB's management, as the District's Mayor continues to have nearly total
control of EAAB's operations. That is, EAAB continues with a governance system lacking
adequate checks and balances that could provide the entity with a more appropriate degree of
managerial autonomy. The SAR considered EAAB's lack of autonomy as one of the issues to be



                                                 - 11 -

addressed by the project.

Progress made by EAAB during the project implementation period in specific organizational areas
is reflected in items like the ones below:


     · EAAB's capability to provide first-class water and sewer services to the population (100%
        with water and 90% with sewerage)

     · EAAB entering into and implementing a BOT contract with a private firm for the
        rehabilitation and operation of the Tibito Water Supply System

     · EAAB hiring private firms to provide customer services, management of commercial
        operations, and operation and maintenance of small diameters water supply networks in all
        the service area. This decision has resulted in major improvements in customer service
        quality

     · EAAB's ability to access private capital markets, made possible by the AA+ rating of its
        bonds

     · The experience gained in recovering wetlands, and in requiring its contractors to observe
        sound environmental standards included in the company's environmental manual

     · The ISO certification for several EAAB's processes, including water intake, transport and
        treatment (ISO 9001-2000), water quality (ISO 9000), and construction supervision (ISO
        9002/94).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two factors can be cited. First, the economic recession that affected Colombia during most of
the project implementation period translated into lower than expected prices for construction and
material contracts, and this helped EAAB to exceed the physical targets under the project. Some
contracts were awarded at prices 20 % lower than EAAB's estimates prior to bid.

Second, the collapse of the Chingaza Tunnel (the conveyance system of the main source of water
for Bogota), which had serious implications for EAAB, its customers and the project: water
rationing during 7 months in 1997; lower revenues than expected in the year of the collapse; and
absorption of a substantial portion of EAAB's managerial and technical resources. The water
rationing was also a factor in the sustained reduction in per-capita water consumption, as the
effects of this event reinforced the decline in consumption observed during the fifteen-year-period
prior to appraisal and the effect of substantial tariff increases in real terms during the project
implementation period (the price elasticity of water demand was estimated at ­0.28 at
appraisal).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                     - 12 -

Project implementation was favored by substantial indirect and direct support provided by the
national government. The main indirect support was the enactment of the sector framework law
(Law 142 of 1994), which is rooted in the 1991 Constitution. Law 142 provides the basis for the
creation of the water regulatory commission and of the superintendence of public services; and the
implementation of prices approaching full cost recovery. The direct support from the government
was provided through the refinancing of almost the entire foreign debt service becoming due in
the second half of 1993, and in the years 1994 to 1997. Project implementation was also favored
by the strong commitment of a series of District government administrations, which are widely
recognized as catalysts of major improvements in the quality of life in Bogota, particularly for the
poor. The project was part of the District's economic and social development plans of the three
successive administrations (1995-2004) responsible for project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project suffered initial delays because of a number of reasons such as EAAB's delays in
setting up an effective project management unit, and long procurement processes. Loan
disbursements were also slow because of EAAB's decision to finance a number of investments
with internal cash generation. This decision was motivated by two main factors: first, EAAB's
high liquidity as a result of the high tariff levels implemented during the project implementation
period and, second, EAAB's policy of reducing the foreign currency risk in its balance sheet
through the repayment of loans in foreign exchange, rolling them over into local currency debt,
and the postponement of disbursements of the Bank loans.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total estimated cost of the two phases of the project was US$ 718 million (US$ 414 million
for the first phase and US$ 304 for the second phase). The two initial Bank loans amounting to
US$ 145 would finance 35% of the cost of the first phase of the project. As a result of the
dropping of the concept of a two-phases project and of the corresponding changes in the timing of
some investments, the actual cost of the project, including taxes, and its financing plan were as
follows:

                          Source of Funds        Amount        %
                                               (US$ million)
                                 EAAB               292        49
                               World Bank           144        24
                                  District           91        15
                             Private Sector          75        12
                                  Total             602        100

There were no cost overruns, deficient cost estimates or major project implementation delays.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated likely. This rating takes into account a number of factors, including
the ones below: first, the sector-wide policy and institutional environment emerging from the early
1990s sector reform that has proven to be an important element in improving sector performance,



                                                    - 13 -

including enhancing the financial viability of the service providers. The substantial consensus in
the country about these reforms and the fact that they are rooted in the 1991 Constitution are
likely to give them continuity and stability. Second, EAAB's highly developed organizational
capability and the highly qualified technical personnel. Third, the high technical standards applied
by EAAB to the works under the project, and EAAB's proven capability to operate and maintain
them competently.

Notwithstanding the above, a utility like EAAB is inherently at risk of ups and downs in
performance for a number of reasons. Some of the risks arise from EAAB's institutional setup
and others from the nature and dimension of EAAB's task. The main risks related to EAAB's
institutional setup are discussed below: first, changes in District's administrations may result in
substantial changes in EAAB's policies and programs in accordance with the Mayor's
preferences, not necessarily based on sound economic and financial principles. This risk is a direct
consequence of the Mayor's authority to appoint EAAB's Board and general manager, and of his
position as Chairperson of the Board. That means that EAAB is very dependent on political
cycles and runs a high risk of overturning progress and adequate policies by future Mayors that
might have different opinions. Another risk is the potential disruption in EAAB's activities
resulting from changes of general manager and second level positions every time a new
administration comes in office. In fact, every time that a new Mayor takes office, the general
manager of EAAB and consequently all the senior management, are replaced. Usually, each new
general manager is a confidant of the new Mayor, and is not always qualified to serve as a general
manager. The regulatory structure is unlikely to be able to prevent these contingencies.

The second risk is that the Mayor and EAAB's management may decide not to continue with the
practice of contracting with private firms the provision of customer services, and operation and
maintenance of small diameter networks. This is a risk which could materialize in the short-term,
as the current contracts expire in 2007, and there are members of EAAB staff favoring the option
of returning to EAAB the responsibility for directly providing the services.

Third, the uncertainties regarding EAAB's role in wastewater treatment, as the municipal
government recently transferred to the entity the plant built by Departamento Técnico
Administrativo de Medio Ambiente (DAMA) and Corporación Autónoma Regional (CAR)
through a BOT contract, which was rescinded by the government. Involvement of EAAB in the
wastewater treatment program may incur huge expenses which might shake the financial stability
of the utility.

Fourth, the "modernization program" currently under way in EAAB is being strongly criticized,
and one of the major contracts under this program (the establishment of a SAP information
system) is under investigation, because of high cost overruns and it is then likely to have
implications future development of the program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All assets added by the project are already fully operational without special transition
arrangements, particularly in areas related to water and sanitation, as this operation fits naturally
within EAAB's organizational structure. Furthermore, the recently created environmental unit
has been adequately staffed and provided with the necessary resources to make it likely that it will


                                                  - 14 -

continue functioning properly.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated as satisfactory
. Of particular note are the items below. First, the Bank's explicit recognition of the uncertainties
surrounding the ongoing sector reform and its impact on EAAB's operations and financial
performance, which, in turn, led to the sound decision to split the project in two phases, making
the Bank's participation in the second phase contingent to EAAB's performance. The timing of
this decision suggests, however, a flaw in the loan processing, as the decision was taken after
appraisal and shortly after negotiations, negatively affecting the Bank's reputation with the
borrower.

Second, the Bank made good use of its extensive knowledge of EAAB's operations, gained
through the first four loans. In this respect, it is important to mention the Bank's opposition to
the District administration's approach to alleviating the Bogota River pollution problems. The
District adopted a strategy based on constructing three activated sludge treatment plants within
the city limits, at the confluences of the tributaries Salitre, Fucha snd Tunjuelo with Bogota River.
The Bank's proposed strategy was to construct first the Bogota River Interceptor (BRI), which is
a large diameter sewage collector along the river, which would collect the entire city's raw
wastewater and convey it downstream the city limits, where it will be treated. The development of
the treatment plant will be carried out in stages, in accordance with the financial capacity of the
District. The Bank's proposed strategy has many advantages, since with a relatively small
investment of constructing the BRI the section of the Bogota River within the city limits can be
cleaned up, removing within a short time (i.e. the construction time of the BRI) the public health
risk imposed by discharging raw wastewater to the river. The District's three plant strategy was
extremely expensive, could be completed only after many years due to financial restrictions, and
would not have resolved the public health risk since the effluents of the three plants contain
almost the same amount of pathogens as raw sewage. The value added by the Bank's opposition
was that it was instrumental in preventing that EAAB be involved in the implementation of the
BOT for the Salitre wastewater treatment plant. This was an important accomplishment, as it
prevented EAAB from being involved in financing the Salitre plant and from entering into serious
financial problems. The Bank was not, however, in a position to prevent the District
administration in going ahead with the Salitre BOT. The District continued with its program by
transferring the responsibility of wastewater management to DAMA, which is an entity with no
relationship with the Bank under this project. During the past two years the District authorities
recognized that the three plants strategy was not sustainable. A few months ago it terminated the
Salitre BOT contract, and is practically adopting the Bank's strategy, while adjusting it to the fact
that the Salitre plant has already been constructed.

Third, the Bank's emphasis on the early preparation of studies and designs for the works included
in the project, and on ensuring compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies with emphasis on
environmental policies, as well as on compliance with sound financial management and
procurement procedures.



                                                  - 15 -

The Bank's performance is not rated as highly satisfactory because of the untimely decision to
split the project in two phases, the lack of clarity on the "key" project objective of transforming
EAAB in a commercially-run public utility, and the absence of a satisfactory framework to
evaluate progress toward the achievement of other project outcomes. The risk involved in the
Bank's approach to EAAB's institutional strengthening is encapsulated in the statement of one of
the Bank's Executive Directors who indicated that the proposed study on institutional alternatives
for EAAB might "merely" defer decisions on institutional issues. This concern proved to be
relevant for the success of the project, as the lack of agreement between EAAB and the Bank on
institutional issues contributed to unproductive tensions and disagreement between the Bank and
EAAB during project implementation and, eventually, prevented the Bank in participating in the
financing of the original second phase of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
This ICR rates Bank's overall performance during supervision as satisfactory. This rating agrees
with the Quality Supervision Assessment's (QSA 5) rating and with the rationale behind it,
mainly: (i) the satisfactory supervision of fiduciary aspects, particularly environmental issues,
resettlement, financial management, and procurement; (ii) the quality of the staff responsible for
supervision, as well as the amount of inputs allocated to supervision; and (iii) the realism of the
ratings. The high quality of the staff was highlighted by EAAB's personnel who mentioned a
number of Bank's contributions to the entity's operations, including: the strategic approach to
project design, the emphasis on training, the recommendations on innovative technical matters like
the use of "trenchless" technology for underground works in densely populated areas of the city,
and the recommendations on the use of "Panels of Expert" for large and controversial projects.
This was the case of design of the Regadera dam and the Fucha-Tunjuelo interceptor (Interceptor
Rio Bogota).

On the negative side, it is relevant to mention the view of the QS5, which considers that the
Mid-term Review, which was scheduled to take place in September 1997, was conducted in an
informal manner as part of a normal supervision mission, with little evidence of any involvement
of country and sector management.

A second supervision issue is the extension of the loan closing date at a time when there were no
specific plans for the application of the loan amount yet to be disbursed, and the project
implementation unit had been disbanded, without consultation with the Bank, and without putting
in place a satisfactory alternative. No additional work or project activities were carried out during
the extension period. The disbursements after the original closing date (US$ 23 million) were
made only shortly before the extended closing date, by increasing to 94% the financing of a
number of contracts. Total loan disbursements amounted to US$ 144 million, i.e., about 99% of
the amount approved (US$ 145 million).

Bank's independent consultants carried out an audit of procurement under the project during the
first two and half years of project implementation and concluded that EAAB did follow the
established procedures in all of the procurement actions reviewed. The auditor's report
highlights, however, that the Bank should improve the timeliness of Bank's review and no
objections.


                                                  - 16 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The District's administration implementation is rated as satisfactory. First, the District delivered
on its commitment to transfer to EAAB funds received from the National Government under Law
60 of 1993. Second, it fully integrated EAAB's investment plans and operations within its
Development Plans.

The District administration's reluctance to enter into, at least, a lease contract with a private
operator for the provision of services was considered by the Bank as a negative factor for the
successful project implementation, as shown by the Bank's reluctance to participate in the
financing of the original second phase of the project. In hindsight, the actions taken by EAAB in
hiring private firms for the rehabilitation and operation of the Tibito Water Supply System and for
customer services were successful and constitute important steps toward further improvement of
EAAB's operations, although the Tibito BOT is of a lower degree of importance since EAAB
was capable of doing all the Tibito system works since it has a lot of experience in design and
operation of water treatment plant. The commercial operation contract is of higher importance
since it refers to operations that EAAB had difficulties in complying successfully. The hiring of
the mentioned private operators need not be considered in isolation but as part of a gradual
institutional development process, which takes into account the District administration and
EAAB's political constraints.

A factor under the control of the District administration which created delays in project
implementation was the frequent changes in EAAB's management, as there were four general
managers during the project implementation period. Each change of general manager was
accompanied by changes of deputy general managers and other top-level staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
EAAB's overall performance is rated as satisfactory. It advanced the institutional and
organizational reform through a series of actions, including the BOT contract for the Tibito Water
Supply System, the hiring of private firms for providing customer services, and strengthened its
managerial capability through the implementation of SAP. It strengthened its financial
performance through substantial tariff increases, and also strengthened and mainstreamed the
environmental management function. The works carried out under the project are of high quality
and high technical standards.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
EAAB's overall performance in implementation is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following are key lessons learned from this project:


                                                 - 17 -

Institutional and organizational reform: Poorly defined expectations at appraisal regarding
institutional and organizational reform leads to tensions and misunderstandings between the Bank
and the borrower. Active support by the government authorities and by the utility is necessary for
effective and sustainable reform. The Bank would do well in ensuring that project appraisal and
negotiations include explicit agreement on the objectives and scope of proposed utility's
restructuring and privatization. The Bank would do well also in recognizing that the inertia and
political opposition to reform can be overcome through a strategy of gradual but sequential
reform.

Knowledge Bank: Sophisticated borrowers like EAAB seek and value expert advice of the
highest quality. This point is illustrated by EAAB's staff recognition of the Bank's contribution to
the identification and implementation of up-to date engineering technologies and environmental
protection practices. It is also illustrated by the Bank's contribution to the shaping of utilities'
major development plans and resource allocation priorities ­ system expansion versus
rehabilitation and increased efficiency, least-cost solution approaches to water pollution problems,
and affordability and cost recovery. The Bank should take into account the level of sophistication
of Borrowers and ensure that teams are composed of highly specialized staff to formulate project
concepts and to supervision. It is not sufficient to assemble Bank teams consisting of only
generalists with experience in Bank procedures but not in the issues.

Institutional climate: The institutional climate surrounding the project implementation agency
plays a major role in the project's outcome. A sound external climate allows for the
implementation of adequate cost recovery policies and for synergies with projects and activities
carried out by other economic agencies. An unsound climate has negative impacts. The Santa Fe
project illustrates well this point, as the sound and supportive external climate helped in achieving
the project goals. The Bank should play a role of partner in reforms and try to create the
appropriate external climate, or, alternatively, reconsider participation in projects when a sound
external climate cannot be achieved.

Project monitoring and evaluation: The lack of a clear framework and indicators for
monitoring and evaluating project outcomes limits the effectiveness of the Bank's supervision and
the scope of the lessons to be learned from the project. The Bank would do well then in ensuring
that project appraisal contains an adequate project evaluation framework.

Extension of closing dates: Extending loan closing dates without specific plans and
implementation capability are likely to do more harm than good, as it increases commitment costs
for the borrower and supervision cost for the Bank. The Bank would do well in being selective in
extending closing dates.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                  - 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable




                     - 19 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                             - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a: Outcome/Impact Indicators
                            Indicator                               Projected in Actual/lates
                                                                    SAR End of   t estimate
                                                                      project
Poverty alleviation
1. New water connections in low-income strata (strata 1 to 3) (000)     70           24
2. New sewer connections in low-income strata (strata 1 to 3) (000)    100           46
Flood control ­ Neighborhoods drained
3. Extension drained (hectares)                                         NA          542
4. Population in drained areas (000)                                    NA          NA
Environmental ­ Wetland protection
5. Hectares protected (No)                                              NA           1/
Vulnerability ­ Vulnerable components rehabilitated or built
6. Tibito water treatment plant and pipeline rehabilitated           End 1998     End 2001
7. Back-up Usaquen Tunnel constructed 2/                             End 2000    Early 2003
Efficiency
8. Cost per m3 produced (Col $ at 1996 prices)                          NA          833
9. Cost per m3 billed (Col $ at 1996 prices)                            NA         1,343
NA: Not available.
1/ Included in the hectares drained.
2/ The back-up Usaquen Tunnel was part of the second phase of the project.


Annex 1b: Operational, Financial and Commercial Indicators

  Year               UFW 1/               Working Ratio 2/
                                                                   Quick Ratio 3/      Collection Ratio 4/
                       SAR                       Actual                 SAR                ActualSAR
                                                                                       ActualSAR Actual
   1994                40                           40                    44              521.22.06079
   1995                39                           37                    45             601.42.166115
   1996                37                           33                    45              661.02.67383
   1997                36                           32                    45              861.02.18076
   1998                34                           34                    45              841.11.68893
   1999                32                           32                    45             1021.11.59295
   2000                31                           34                    40              931.10.69287
   2001                29                           36                    40              631.10.89291
   2002                29                           35                    40              731.11.49295
   2003                29                           37                    40              721.11.69296




                                                        - 21 -

1/ Unaccounted-for Water defined as the percentage of non-revenue generating water over total water production.
2/ Working Ratio defined as the ratio of working expenses, prior to depreciation and interest charges, and
including annual payments to existing pensioners, payments into the EAAB Pension Fund, and annual transfers to
external pension funds under Law 100 to operating revenues prior to subsidy transfers and extraordinary income
(including income from excess liquidity balances).
3/ Quick Ratio defined as the ratio of liquid assets (cash and bank balances and short-term investments readily
convertible to cash in three months) and 30% of accounts receivable to current liabilities due and payable within
one year, including loan amortizations due and payable.
4/ Collection Ratio is the ratio of amounts collected in the current year to the amount of billings during the year.
The ratio excluding collection of receivables from previous years was not used because that information is not
readily available in EAAB.

Alternative Indicator for Unaccounted-for Water


                                        Unaccounted-for Water per Connection


                                    20

                                    15


                                    10

                                     5

                 m3/connection/month 0
                                       1996 1997 1998   1999    2000    2001      2002    2003

                                                           Years


                                                      Appraisal      Actual




Annex 1c: Output indicators

A. Vulnerability Control                                                                        Appraisal       Actual

1. Rehabilitating a section of the pipeline from Tibito to Casablanca Treated Water Tank *        31 km       31 Km
2. Rehabilitating the Tibito water treatment plant *                                            11m3/s        11m3/s
3. Constructing the Usaquen back-up tunnel **                                                    2.7 km         2.5 km
B. Primary sanitary and storm water drainage and pollution control
1. Constructing sewage interceptors, trunk sewers and storm water drainage systems                35 km         72 km
2. Constructing drainage canals in the Salitre, Jaboque, Fucha Tintal and Tunjuelo                17 km         25 km
drainage canals
3. Constructing two main sewage pumping stations and expanding 2 smaller sewage                  2 main         2 main
pumping stations in the Tintal and Salitre drainage basins                                      2 smaller      2 smaller
4. Constructing a storm water peak attenuation lagoon at Fontibon                                   1             1



                                                          - 22 -

5. Rehabilitating dikes on the left bank of the Bogotá River at Fontibon and Tintal            11 km      11 km

6. Constructing the first section of the Bogota River Interceptor (Torca-Salitre stretch) **   12 km      11 km

7. Constructing sewage pumping station **                                                         1          1

8. Constructing a storm water peak attenuation lagoon at Tintal **                                1          1

C. Primary water distribution system

1. Installing primary distribution mains ***                                                   54 km      110 km
2. Constructing storage tanks in the southwestern sector of the city                           4 tanks    4 tanks
                                                                                             10,800 m3    10,800
                                                                                                            m3
3. Constructing pumping stations in the southeastern and southwestern parts of the city           2          2
4. Constructing main storage and compensation tanks **                                         3 tanks    3 tanks
                                                                                             94,000 m3    94,000
                                                                                                            m3
5. Rehabilitating and increasing the volume of storage tanks in the Northern part of the6 tanks        6 tanks
city **                                                                                     3,400 m3   3,400 m3
D. Secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks, service connections

1. Constructing secondary water distribution mains                                             125 km     167 km
2. Constructing secondary sewage collectors                                                    265 km     299 km
3. Constructing storm water drains                                                             225 km     266 km
4. Installing 70,000 water service connections                                                 70,000     24.000
5. Installing sewerage service connections                                                    100,000     46.000
E. Rehabilitation works

1. Replacing or repairing sewage collectors, constructing alleviation sewers and               19 km      25 km
rehabilitating sewer appurtenances, and repairing erroneous connections between sewage
and storm water collectors
2. Replacing or repairing older water distribution pipes                                       150 km     600 km
F. Institutional strengthening
1.Purchasing and installing bulk meters and domestic meters                                   780,000    425,000
*    BOT contract.
** Originally part of the second phase of the project.
***Includes first and second phase works.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
                         Component                              US$ million      US$ million
A. Vulnerability Control                                            73.00            106.60             111
B. Primary Sewerage and Drainage                                  104.40             163.50              99
C. Primary Water Distribution                                       32.90             68.50              67
D. Expansion Secondary Networks                                     71.60            100.00              61
E. Rehabilitation Secondary Networks                                18.70             27.40              75
F. Institutional Strenghtening                                      52.80             31.50              60
G. Technical Assistance                                             49.60             73.30              82
H. Environmental Improvement                                        11.30             31.10             275


Total Baseline Cost                                               414.30             601.90
                            Total Project Costs                   414.30             601.90
                    Total Financing Required                      414.30             601.90


                                                                    Appraisal              Actual 1/
                    Project Component                       Phase 1    Phase 2    Total

                                                               (US$ million current)      (US$
                                                                                         million) %

   A. Vulnerability Control                                   73.0        22.8     95.9   106.6   111
   B. Primary Sewerage and Drainage                          104.4        61.1    165.5   163.5   99
   C. Primary Water Distribution                              32.9        69.1    102.0   68.5    67
   D. Expansion Secondary Networks                            71.6        92.4    164.0   100.0   61
   E. Rehabilitation Secondary Networks                       18.7        17.9     36.5   27.4    75
   F. Institutional Strengthening                             52.8         0.0     52.8   31.5    60
   G. Technical Assistance                                    49.6        40.3     89.9   73.3    82
   H. Environmental Improvement                               11.3         0.0     11.3   31.1    275
                 Total Investment Cost 2/                    414.2       303.6    717.8   602.0   84
   Note: Physical and price contingencies in the appraisal estimates are allocated to each component
   in proportion to its estimated cost.
   1/ The percentage is in relation to the estimated cost of the original two phases.
   2/ Including taxes.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                     2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             192.00           90.00              0.00           0.00         282.00
                                    (37.40)          (22.30)            (0.00)         (0.00)       (59.70)
2. Goods                             91.80            90.00             15.00          40.00         236.80
                                    (31.50)          (22.30)            (4.30)         (0.00)       (58.10)



                                                   - 24 -

   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              78.60             0.00              78.60
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (27.20)           (0.00)            (27.20)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00             33.40             33.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                               283.80            180.00              93.60             73.40            630.80
                                           (68.90)           (44.60)            (31.50)           (0.00)           (145.00)
   Notes: Figures in brackets correspoond to the amounts financed by the Bank.
   1/ Includes only the estimates for the first phase of the project.

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                213.80            154.30              0.00             71.70            439.80
                                           (50.60)           (58.30)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (108.90)
   2. Goods                                 2.20              11.10              0.00             6.40             19.70
                                           (0.90)             (3.90)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.80)
   3. Services                              0.00              56.90              0.00             41.50            98.40
                                           (0.00)            (30.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (30.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             44.10             0.00             44.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               216.00            222.30             44.10            119.60            602.00
                                           (51.50)           (92.20)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (143.70)
   Figures in brackets correspond to the amounts financed by the Bank.
   1/ Includes only the estimates for the first phase of the project.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Vulnerability control       16.20        26.80        30.00       16.20         15.40     75.00       100.0     57.5    250.0
B. Primary                     39.40        65.00                    39.40        124.10                 100.0    190.9
sewerave/drainage
C. Primary water               12.40        20.50                    12.40         56.10                 100.0    273.7
distribution



                                                           - 25 -

D. Expansion secondary      27.00      44.60          27.00   73.00         100.0 163.7
networks
E. Rehabilitation            7.10      11.60           7.10   20.30         100.0 175.0
secondary networks
F. Insstitutional           19.90      32.90          19.90   11.60         100.0 35.3
strengthening
G. Technical assistance     18.70      30.90          18.70   54.60         100.0 176.7
H. Environmental             4.30      7.00            4.30   26.80         100.0 382.9
improvement
Total                       145.00    239.20  30.00   144.00  383.00  75.00  99.3 160.1 250.0

   Nota: Govt. means EAAB
             CoF. means Private Sector




                                               - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


             Santafe I Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project
                         Economic Internal Rate of Return
                            (Million Col $ at 1996 prices)



        Year   Investments   O and M     Increm. Cost        Increm. Net Benefit
                                                            Revenue
        1996     88,851       1,789          90,641       54,163      -36,478
        1997    114,097       40,953        155,050       43,569     -111,481
        1998    111,623       63,414        175,037       93,027      -82,010
        1999    132,914       72,971        205,885       118,660     -87,225
        2000    166,227      132,676        298,903       189,573    -109,330
        2001    188,276      118,565        306,841       253,339     -53,502
        2002    115,087      140,365        255,453       264,924      9,471
        2003    113,090      166,359        279,450       329,951     50,501
        2004                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2005                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2006                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2007                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2008                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2009                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2010                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2011                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2012                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2013                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2014                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2015                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2016                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2017                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2018                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2019                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2020                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2021                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2022                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2023                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2024                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
        2025                 202,854        202,854       302,869     100,015
                                    IERR: 12%




                                        - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/93                     4    TASK MANAGER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             ENGINEER
              09/93                     3    TASK MANAGER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             ENGINEER
              10/93                     3    ENGINEERS
              12/93                     7    TASK MANAGER;
                                             ENGINEER; FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/93                     4    TASK MANAGER;
                                             ECONOMIST; FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST; ENGINEER
              05/93                     4    TASK MANAGER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             ENGINEER
              01/94                     5    TASK MANAGER;
                                             ENGINEER; FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST
              04/94                     7    TASK MANAGER;
                                             ECONOMIST; ENGINEER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
              05/95                     7    TASK MANAGER;
                                             ENGINEER; ECONOMIST

 Supervision

              03/23/1996                2    ENGINEER (1);                    S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (RM) (1)
              11/27/1996                4    SR. ENGINEER (1); SR.            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANAL. (1); ENV.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (RM) (1)
              07/04/1997                4    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                             (1); SR. WATER ENGINEER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)
              02/24/1998                4    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              05/21/1999                3    TM INSTITUTIONAL (1);            S               S
                                             ENGINEERING (1);
                                             FINANCIAL (1)
              10/08/1999                3    TTL, ENGINEER (1);               S               S



                                              - 28 -

                                           ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               05/24/2000              3   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                           ANALYST (1)
               04/17/2001              2   SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);             S    S
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
               10/27/2001              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               05/24/2002              1   FINANCIAL EXPERT (1)               S    S
               02/16/2003              2   TTL (1); FINANCIAL                 S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               02/16/2003              1   FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)           S    S
               10/22/2003              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           WATER MANAGEMENT (1)
                                                                              S

 ICR
                                                                              S
               01/19/2004             2     TM (1); HIDROLOGIST (1)           S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            33.2                         104.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                126.9                         374.8
  Supervision                          173.4                         639.2
  ICR                                   30.0                           20.0
  Total                                363.5                       1,138.8




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Bank's November 1993 CAS for Colombia (Included in the Staff Appraisal Report No.
     P-6070-CO).

2.   Project Completion Report for the Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Project
     (Loan 2512-CO), Report No. 13473.

3.   Colombia: Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure (REDI) ­ Balancing Social
     and Productive Needs for Infrastructure. The World Bank, Finance, Private Sector and
     Infrastructure Unit, Latin America and the Caribbean, September, 2004.

4.   Bogotá, D.C. Plan de Desarrollo Económico, Social y de Obras Públicas para Santa fe de
     Bogotá D.C. 1995 ­ 1998, Departamento Administrativo de Planeación Distrital.

5.   Bogotá, D.C. Plan de Desarrollo Económico, Social y de Obras Públicas 1998 - 2001,
     Acuerdo No. 06 de Junio de 1998.

6.   Bogotá, D.C. Plan de Desarrollo Económico, Social y de Obras Públicas 2001 - 2004,
     Decreto 440 de 2001.

7.   Garzón Luis, Alcalde Mayor de Bogotá 2004 2007. Por un Compromiso Social Contra la
     Pobreza en Bogotá, December 31, 2003.

8.   EAAB, Conservación Internacional, Banco Mundial. Los Humedales de Bogotá y la
     Sabana, Bogotá, Colombia, 2003.

9.   The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of
     US$100 Million to the Capital District of Bogota for the Bogota Urban Services Project.
     Report No. 24941-CO, February 14, 2003.




                                           - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                                 Comentarios del Prestatario
                                    Préstamos 3952 y 3953


  8.1 Comentarios en relación con los objetivos del proyecto

  El Programa Santa Fe I constituyó el Plan de Inversiones más ambicioso emprendido por la
  Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogotá - ESP. Fue un programa global, que tuvo
  como objetivos principales: fortalecer institucionalmente a la Empresa, disminuir la
  vulnerabilidad de los sistemas de abastecimiento de agua y alcantarillado de la ciudad y
  expandir los servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado, primordialmente a las clases urbanas
  menos favorecidas.

  El proyecto fue concebido para apoyar y consolidar la transición de la EAAB de una
  empresa de servicios públicos con capacidad técnica pero con deficiencia operativa, a una
  empresa de servicios públicos manejada comercialmente, sensible a las exigencias del
  mercado, y con una cultura corporativa basada en la responsabilidad profesional. El proyecto
  se desarrolló en el marco de la Ley de Servicios Públicos que permitió reforzar la eficacia
  operacional, proporcionó autonomía directiva y mayor responsabilidad gerencial, redujo la
  interferencia política y aumentó la responsabilidad pública de los servicios municipales.

  El proyecto también soportó a la EAAB en definir la estructura de largo-plazo de cambios
  institucionales y las estructuras de tarifas económicas que se necesitarían para financiar
  adecuadamente las nuevas e importantes inversiones para el suministro de agua,
  alcantarillados y sobre todo en el tratamiento de aguas residuales en el Distrito Capital y sus
  municipalidades circundantes durante los próximos 20-30 años, para cuando se espera que la
  población doble su tamaño actual que sobrepasa los 6.5 millones de habitantes.

  En adición a este importante objetivo institucional, el proyecto tuvo varios objetivos
  específicos que incluyeron, (a) Expandir la distribución de los servicios a las zonas marginales
  urbanas, en particular, enfocando los recursos a los grupos de personas de menores ingresos
  en el área metropolitana; (b) direccionando lo concerniente ambientalmente al altamente
  polucionado Rió Bogotá; (c) reduciendo la vulnerabilidad del sistema de suministro de agua
  para Bogotá; y, (d) apoyando una renovada y económica estructura tarifaría que le permita a
  la EAAB reflejar el costo pleno para proporcionar sus servicios.

  De acuerdo con los objetivos anteriores, el proyecto se centró específicamente en las
  siguientes acciones:

  ·    Perfeccionar los servicios de suministro de agua potable y alcantarillados pluviales y
       residuales en Bogotá, con énfasis especial, en zonas de servicio sub-normales habitadas
       por población de bajos ingresos, a través de la optimización de la operación del sistema



                                               - 33 -

     de acueducto existente y la expansión y rehabilitación de las redes de alcantarillado.

·    Mejorar la confiabilidad del sistema de suministro de agua reduciendo los riesgos de
     racionamiento.

·    Soportar a la EAAB reestructurando el programa de fortalecimiento institucional y
     financiero incrementando la eficiencia operacional para lograr y consolidar la viabilidad
     financiera.

·    Fortalecer el manejo de protección ambiental de los humedales y aumentar la sensibilidad
     de la EAAB en los aspectos ambientales.

·    Proveer los servicios de asistencia técnica y consultoría para soportar la implementación
     del proyecto y preparar futuros programas de inversión.

·    Apoyar a la EAAB en llevar a cabo estudios coherentes para explorar alternativas
     institucionales promisorias para la compañía enfocadas a estrechar su autonomía y
     eficiencia.

Situación previa a la ejecución del proyecto

Generalidades

A comienzos de la década de los 70, la EAAB creció rápidamente y extendió el cubrimiento
de su servicio, desde un 60% de la población en 1970 (estimado), hasta más del 85% en
1993. Gracias, en parte, a la ejecución de los primeros cuatro proyectos financiados por el
Banco Mundial, así, la calidad del agua alcanzó los niveles internacionales y el alcantarillado
llegó a casi el 89% de la población. Sin embargo, durante el curso de la ejecución del
proyecto Bogotá IV, aumentó la interferencia política y, a pesar de las nuevas inversiones en
el sistema de acueducto y alcantarillado, las operaciones de la EAAB comenzaron a acusar
grandes deficiencias, se dispararon los niveles de personal contratado y se redujo el
mantenimiento, en la medida que los ingresos de operación no lograban mantenerse al ritmo
de los costos crecientes.

Desempeño Financiero

La situación financiera de la EAAB se deterioró constantemente durante el periodo
1988-1992, principalmente como resultado de sobrecostos en el programa de construcción,
que fueron financiados con deudas a corto plazo, el vencimiento de la deuda a largo plazo y
los elevados e incrementales costos laborales, que iban en aumento. Así, en 1990, el servicio
de la deuda era el doble de la registrada en 1989, y se duplicó una vez más en 1991. Hasta
1992 los costos laborales habían aumentado al 67% de los gastos operativos, cifra que era del
55% en 1959. Los ingresos netos siguieron cayendo durante este periodo y cada vez la
generación de efectivo era más insuficiente para cubrir el pesado programa de gastos de
capital de la EAAB, así como el incremento de sus obligaciones de servicio de la deuda.



                                            - 34 -

Durante varios años, bajo el proyecto Bogotá IV, el Banco señaló la urgencia de tomar
acciones correctivas y trató de garantizar el cumplimiento de las condiciones pactadas, con
respecto al desempeño financiero. En 1991, la EAAB dio inicio a un ejercicio de
reestructuración financiera, que hacía parte de un amplio Plan de Acción, Las tarifas de agua
se incrementaron en términos reales en 1991 y 1992 y la EAAB disminuyó sus costos de
personal y sus gastos de operación, además de obtener un crédito a largo plazo en términos
de concesión, para terminar el proyecto Bogotá IV. Sin embargo, estas medidas fueron
insuficientes para detener el deterioro de la situación financiera. El déficit interno se amplió
en 1992 y, hacia fines de 1992, la EAAB había acumulado deudas atrasadas, con los
proveedores y contratistas, que se estimaban en unos Col$22000 millones (cerca de US
$30 millones). También estaba incapacitada para costear su programa de construcciones y
experimentó dificultades para cumplir sus obligaciones de servicio de la deuda. Durante este
periodo, la EAAB operó con malos márgenes de liquidez, como lo evidencia la Relación
entre Activo Disponible y Pasivo Corriente mucho menor de 1.

Esta difícil situación financiera fue enfrentada por el Gobierno Nacional en 1993, cuando
decidió rescatar a la EAAB y refinanciar la casi totalidad del servicio de la deuda externa que
se vencía en la segunda mitad de 1993, así como en los años 1994 a 1997, como parte de un
acuerdo más amplio para reestructurar a la EAAB con el fin de que lograse mayor eficiencia y
responsabilidad, utilizando un Plan de Desempeño con obligatoriedad legal. En 1993, como
consecuencia de este acuerdo con el Gobierno Nacional, que cubrió efectivamente más del
25% del servicio total de la deuda para ese año, la EAAB pudo generar fondos internos
netos, después de servir una deuda equivalente a cerca del 73% de sus inversiones. A fines
del año 1994, la EAAB presentó un nivel sustancial de superávit de liquidez, disponible para
dar inicio a un plan significativo de inversiones. Otras elementos que contribuyeron a la
recuperación financiera de la EAAB durante 1994, fueron: el pago hecho a la EAAB por
parte de los Gobiernos Nacional y Distrital, de sus deudas por servicio de agua, y las
campañas para aumentar el nivel de dinero recaudado de los clientes y eliminar las conexiones
ilegales, todo lo cual hacía parte del Plan de Desempeño.

Cambios Institucionales

El Gobierno Nacional y el Alcalde de Bogotá también dieron pasos positivos para resolver la
crisis de la EAAB, en los aspectos estructural, institucional y financiero, que la llevó a su
crisis financiera de 1989-1992. En Julio 21 de 1993, el Gobierno expidió el Decreto-Ley 142,
que redefinió la organización y estatutos del Distrito Capital y sus empresas de servidos
públicos. Un punto destacado de este Decreto-Ley es que aumentó notoriamente la
responsabilidad del Alcalde Mayor y los Gerentes Generales de las empresas públicas. Esta
Ley de Servicios Públicos, fortaleció aún más la autonomía de la EAAB en estos aspectos
cruciales, y ordenó que se reorganizaran todas las empresas de servicios públicos como
empresas municipales, comerciales e industriales, transformándolas en compañías
accionarías, con ingreso significativo de capital privado. Como consecuencia, aunque el
Alcalde aprueba el presupuesto de la EAAB (a través del Consejo Social y Económico del
Distrito Capital-CONFIS), y nombra al Gerente General y los miembros de la junta, dicho



                                            - 35 -

Gerente General tiene ahora, por vez primera, la plena responsabilidad del manejo de la
empresa en conformidad con las políticas formuladas por su Junta Directiva, lo cual no
solamente representa los intereses del consejo municipal, como propietario, sino además los
del público en general.

La reestructuración institucional de la EAAB ayudó a restaurar la viabilidad básica de una
gran empresa pública de la Capital, fortaleciendo su capacidad para responder adecuadamente
a las necesidades no satisfechas de rehabilitación y modesta expansión de la red de
distribución de agua y alcantarillado, y también a las complejas demandas a mediano plazo
para el control y tratamiento de la contaminación. Adicionalmente, mejorando la eficiencia
especialmente por la reducción del agua no contabilizada y previendo y solucionando los
problemas de liquidez a largo plazo incrementando su capacidad institucional y financiera
para emprender las inversiones que son necesarias para la expansión de su capacidad a largo
plazo.

Sin embargo, la alta rotación de directivos fue un problema grave para la EAAB. La Ley de
Servicios Públicos no va a remediar esta situación hasta que las autoridades municipales no
reconstituyan las entidades públicas para convenirlas en compañías accionarias. El estudio
propuesto para las alternativas institucionales de la EAAB examinó los medios para
estabilizar a largo plazo la estructura institucional y la autoridad de la EAAB, para que le
permita cumplir con sus retos principales en el futuro; en especial, la necesidad de emprender
inversiones a gran escala, que llegarán hasta bien entrada la siguiente década, y obtener
capital a largo plazo. En la medida que se implanten las previsiones de la nueva Ley de
Servicios Públicos, las prácticas de trabajo de la EAAB en varias áreas operacionales y
estratégicas claves, tendrán que ser modificadas, sea por medio de la reorganización interna
o, más probablemente, a través de la separación de muchas de las funciones que ahora
desarrolla por si misma. Un comienzo hacía esta delegación y la introducción del sector
privado en las operaciones, se pretendió hacer con el proyecto Santa Fe I.

Situación posterior a la ejecución del proyecto.

Generalidades

El proyecto fue ejecutado a lo largo de un período de siete años, entre mediados de 1995 y
el 2002, incluyó ocho componentes básicos, donde todas las obras principales
correspondieron a la solución de mínimo costo. A continuación se da una descripción de los
componentes del proyecto y su ejecución.

Componente A: Control de Vulnerabilidad.


Estas obras son: a. Rehabilitación Planta Tibitoc, b. Rehabilitación Tubería de 2.0 m
Tibitoc-Casablanca, c. Construcción de dos líneas de distribución nuevas en la Calle 170 y d.
construcción de dos líneas de distribución nuevas en la Autopista Norte.

La rehabilitación del sistema Tibitoc se contrató a través de una concesión y en consecuencia,


                                              - 36 -

dejó de ser objeto de financiación por parte del BIRF. Teniendo en cuenta esta situación y el
desfase en la ejecución que se estaba presentando respecto a la programación original, se
decidió incorporar en la Fase 1 algunas obras que en el SAR aparecen como componentes de
la Fase 2. Para determinar cuales obras se pasarían de Fase 2 a Fase 1 se tuvo en cuenta en
primer lugar la urgencia de las mismas y en segundo lugar que el valor del Programa a precios
base se mantuviera (es decir, que la disminución de costos a financiar ocasionada por la
exclusión de las obras de Tibitoc se compensara con los costos de las obras traídas de la Fase
2 a la Fase 1). Las obras que debía realizar la concesión se encuentran terminadas y operando
en buena forma.

El Túnel Alterno de Usaquén y estación generadora de 12 MW. Se encuentra 100%
ejecutado. Conforma un sistema denominado "Sistema Wiesner Suba" y conjuntamente con
las "líneas de Red matriz de acueducto de diámetro 2,20 m y el Tanque de Suba con
capacidad de 90,000 m3 también desarrollados por el proyecto, minimizan los riesgos de
insuficiencia de suministro de agua para la ciudad, prácticamente por este sistema se puede
distribuir el 100% de la demanda actual. Se aprovecha la diferencia de altura entre la planta
Wiesner de suministro de agua potable con el Tanque de Santa Ana para generar hasta 12
MW. La energía producida se conecta al sistema de interconexión nacional y producirá
recursos adicionales para la EAAB. La implementación de estos trabajos y su funcionamiento
son satisfactorios.

Componente B: Redes troncales de drenaje Sanitario y Pluvial

Comprendió la ejecución de varios sistemas que aliviaron los vertimientos directos de aguas
residuales a las cuencas de los humedales: Torca, Guaymaral, Salitre, La Conejera, Jaboque y
Chucua La Vaca.

Se construyó "llave en mano" por sistema Pipe Jacking la primera etapa del interceptor río
Bogotá, 10 km de túnel en suelos blandos, primera obra de éste género construida en
Colombia, con resultados sorprendentes en mitigación ambiental y en rendimientos de avance.


Se construyó el box culvert y el canal revestido del Salitre de 4 km de longitud lo que
permitió hacer la recuperación ambiental del sector. Los compromisos fueron cumplidos en
su mayor parte.

Está pendiente la terminación del canal Cundinamarca tramo 6, por problemas en la
adquisición de unos predios y el Interceptor Cundinamarca sur tramo 1, por cambio en la
concepción de drenaje de la zona, esta modificación está relacionada directamente con el
futuro tratamiento de aguas residuales que se hará en la margen izquierda del río Tunjuelo y
verterá sus aguas al interceptor Fucha Tunjuelo y no a la estación elevadora de aguas
residuales del Tunjuelo como estaba contemplado inicialmente con el proyecto Santa Fe I. Se
espera terminar éstas actividades con algún retraso respecto a la fecha de cierre. Sus
resultados van mas allá de lo inicialmente concebido para la fase I del proyecto, se considera
altamente satisfactorio, se cumplieron los compromisos ambientales y sociales involucrando a



                                           - 37 -

las personas de los diferentes sectores a ser partícipes de los trabajos.

Para obras futuras en este campo se ha abierto un nuevo panorama, puesto que se pueden
emplear tecnologías de punta que permiten la construcción de estas redes por medio de
túneles en suelos blandos, disminuyendo el impacto ambiental y los costos derivados de
interrupciones de tráfico y posibles averías en las edificaciones y en las vías, producidas por
las excavaciones por métodos tradicionales, elaborados con zanjas abiertas desde superficie.
Se han diseñado proyectos que desde el punto de vista hidráulico disminuyen el diámetro de
los conductos al considerar que los aportes de las conexiones erradas y los caudales de
infiltración para alcantarillados de aguas residuales, pueden ser retenidos por embalses de
amortiguación.

Componente C: Red matriz de Acueducto

Sus obras se encuentran terminadas siendo las más representativas las líneas de Acueducto
Wiesner Suba, las líneas Nororientales, la línea Vitelma Jalisco, los Tanques Jalisco, Volador,
Quiba, los Alpes, Castillo y Tanque de Suba; todos ellos cuentan con los sistemas
electrónicos para hacer manejo y control no asistido, para que pueden ser operados
remotamente desde el centro de control del acueducto, se pueden también monitorear sus
diferentes variables. La EAAB está ejecutando un contrato para hacer el centro de control en
donde se pueda operar el sistema integralmente. Los resultados son altamente satisfactorios.

Componente D: Redes secundarias de aguas potables, residuales y pluviales

Se ha trabajado intensamente en ampliar la cobertura de estos servicios a los barrios más
pobres de la ciudad. Las metas para la Fase 1 del proyecto se han superado. En la actualidad
se presenta una cobertura de Alcantarillado de aguas residuales del 90.1%. Se debe seguir
trabajando para determinar las conexiones erradas en la medida que la independización de
alcantarillado incide en la calidad de agua que se vierte al Río Bogotá, altamente contaminado
aún por los vertimientos de aguas lluvias. Se ha pensado implementar unos vertederos de
excesos en las redes de aguas negras, combinando los dos sistemas para que cuando no haya
lluvias que superen la capacidad de los dos conductos se lleven estos residuos a las plantas de
tratamiento. La implementación de este componente se considera satisfactoria.

Componente E: Rehabilitación redes de acueducto y alcantarillado

Se rehabilitaron 607.6 Km de redes de acueducto y 24.5 Km de redes de alcantarillado. Las
metas para la Fase 1 del proyecto se han superado. En la actualidad se presenta una cobertura
del 100% de agua potable. La implementación de este componente se considera satisfactoria.

Componente F: Fortalecimiento Institucional

Se desarrollaron los estudios de catastro de medidores, sectorización, uso racional del agua,
entrenamientos para personal responsable de la gestión técnica, conjuntamente con los
estudios para reestructurar la empresa a una compañía enfocada comercialmente que



                                            - 38 -

permitiera la participación del sector privado; se dividió la ciudad para su operación
comercial en 5 sectores. Como parte de los esfuerzos de fortalecimiento institucional, la
EAAB decidió contratar, a operadores especializados mediante acuerdos de gestión. Estos
procesos fueron estructurados por consultarías especializadas en conjunción con miembros de
la Banca de Inversión.

Después de llevar a cabo el análisis y diagnóstico de la situación de la EAAB, las consultorías
concluyeron que el mejor esquema, desde el punto de vista financiero y de impacto, sería un
esquema de contratos integrales (comercial y operativos de redes secundarias de acueducto y
alcantarillado) para cada una de las cinco zonas - la Tabla 5 presenta las características de
cada zona. No obstante, debido a la rigidez de las condiciones laborales actuales, la Empresa
continuó manejando los sistemas de alcantarillado de todas las zonas. Se hicieron los
siguientes acuerdos: a) dos contratos exclusivamente comerciales y b) tres contratos
integrales (comercial y operación de redes secundarias de acueducto los cuales fueron
firmados con tres operadores especializados. El personal de operación y mantenimiento de
redes menores de acueducto fue trasladado al grupo de mantenimiento de alcantarillado y de
redes matrices de acueducto.

Los tres Gestores fueron seleccionados entre cinco que participaron en la licitación pública
abierta el 9 de Septiembre del 2002. Los Gestores contratados empezaron a trabajar el 2 de
Enero del 2003 y la responsabilidad por las cinco zonas fue distribuida de la siguiente manera:


·   zona 1 (la de mayor número de usuarios con gestión integral) al Consorcio Aguas Capital
    conformado por Técnica Hidráulica Sucursal Colombia, Ponce De León y Asociados S.A
    Información Y Tecnología S.A, Miguel E. Nulle, y Gas Kpital GR Ltda.

·   zonas 2 y 5 (la zona 2 con un componente de facturación importante y solo gestión
    comercial y la zona 5 con gestión integral) a la Unión Temporal Aguazul conformada por
    Acea SpA, Ingeniería E Hidrosistemas Grupo De Consultoría Ltda., Prestadora de
    Servicios de Acueducto, Alcantarillado y Aseo S.A. E.S.P. ­ PRESEA S.A. ESP,
    Estudios Técnicos S.A., Boada Sáenz & Cia. Ltda., y Gestaguas S.A.

·   zonas 3 y 4 (la zona 3 con un componente de facturación importante y solo gestión
    comercial y la zona 4 con gestión integral) a la Unión Temporal EPM Bogotá Aguas
    conformada por EPM ESP, Aguas del Oriente Antioqueño S.A. E.S.P, EPM Bogotá
    S.A., EMTELCO S.A., y Fondo de Empleados Empresas Publicas de Medellín.




                                            - 39 -

                                     Características de las Zonas Comerciales
                        Zona 1       Zona 2          Zona 3          Zona 4      Zona 5       Total
     Cuentas            326.086     261.762          241.449         238.694     225.187    1.310.396
     E. 1, 2 y 3        44,23%      60,06%           72,09%          93,79%      93,52%     69,44%
     E. 4, 5 y 6        47,34%      27,86%           11,07%          0,04%       0,56%      19,59%
     No residenciales   8,42%       12,08%           16,84%          6,17%       5,92%       9,86%
     Facturación        17.245       14.273          17.982           7.643       7.335      64.478
     (miles USD)
     Consumo (miles     10.250       9.230           10.233           7.703       6.870      44.286
     m3)
     Área (Ha)           8.857       7.432            7.569           7.531       5.091      36.479
     Red     sec  ac.    1.218       1.266            1.426           1.279       898         6.086
     (miles m)
     Red     sec alc.    1.580       1.445            1.497           1.164       827         6.513
     (miles m)
                                   Fuente: La EAAB y Menahem Libhaber




Componente G: Asistencia Técnica y Consultoría

Se contrataron los estudios para los diseños y las interventorías descritos en el SAR para la
ejecución de las obras. Se implementaron las prácticas de control y aseguramiento de la
calidad basados en las normas ISO 9000, se pusieron en práctica entre otras en la obra del
Interceptor Río Bogotá, en donde se disminuyeron los costos de las interventorías
tradicionales en magnitudes sustanciales. Los contratos se hicieron inicialmente siguiendo
los procedimientos y normas interpuestas por el Banco en los convenios hasta que se copó
la capacidad de este componente en cuanto a su cantidad descrita en las categorías, a partir
de ese momento se siguieron los procesos por contratación nacional, no elegibles para
solicitud de desembolsos pero si haciendo parte integral del Programa Santa Fe como
contrapartida.

Componente H: Componente Ambiental, Reasentamientos

Este fue uno de los componentes del programa que se desarrolló especialmente en donde se
ha ido mas allá del alcance original, la última misión del Banco que visitó la ciudad observó
que el proyecto Santafé I es un ejemplo donde se realizó una de las buenas prácticas para el
manejo de asuntos sociales y ambientales dentro de desarrollos de infraestructura. En
particular, el proyecto y la participación de otros programas de la EAAB han: (i) terminado
los diagnósticos de las 766 hectáreas de humedales dentro del perímetro de Bogotá y
mejorado 542 hectáreas, mediante la construcción de interceptores de aguas residuales en
las cuencas de los ríos o canales Salitre, Bogotá, Torca y Jaboque; (ii) construido 40 Km de
parques a lo largo de canales de drenaje; (iii) ha participado activamente en el desarrollo de
programas educacionales sobre la protección de humedales; e (iv) incorporado medidas de
protección ambiental durante la construcción de obras de infraestructura. Adicionalmente,
el proyecto es responsable por la creación de una Gerencia Ambiental que hoy en día
internaliza aspectos ambientales en todos los proyectos llevados a cabo por la EAAB. Esta
Gerencia Ambiental empezó como una unidad de bajo nivel dentro de la jerarquía de la
organización y hoy en día funciona a nivel directivo. La Gerencia está trabajando para
obtener la certificación ISO 14000. Por todo lo anterior, el proyecto se nominó para el



                                              - 40 -

"Green Award" interno del Banco Mundial y fue reconocida su ejecución.

Se llevaron a cabo estudios de caso sobre la rehabilitación de los humedales Juan Amarillo y
Córdoba por la Universidad de los Andes. El objetivo de estos estudios fue la valoración
económica de las mejoras ambientales desarrolladas mediante la estimación de la
disponibilidad a pagar de los habitantes dada su situación socioeconómica. En el caso del
Humedal Juan Amarillo, los beneficios brutos estimados fueron de cerca de CO$575
billones. Al asociar esta cifra con el costo total del proyecto que es de CO$207 billones, se
obtuvo que la relación beneficio/costo del proyecto fue de 1,79, lo cual indica la alta
rentabilidad social de la recuperación del Humedal Juan Amarillo. En el caso del Humedal
Córdoba, el valor presente neto de los beneficios económicos derivados del proyecto de
recuperación ascendió a la suma de CO$332 billones aproximadamente. Al comparar estos
beneficios con los costos totales de proyecto se obtiene un indicador beneficio ­ costo de
9,64, lo cual evidencia la generación de bienestar económico para la sociedad bogotana.
Otro estudio valoró el entorno del Humedal Córdoba antes de su regeneración y concluyó
que la proximidad colindante (menos de 250 m) al Humedal, en su estado actual, tiene un
efecto negativo sobre el valor de la vivienda. Esto indicaría que una política de recuperación
de zonas verdes, así como la continuación de los proyectos de cicloruta, trae consigo
importantes beneficios para la sociedad, ya que la mayor presencia de zonas verdes y
ciclorutas en áreas de recreación están asociadas a una mayor disponibilidad a pagar
marginal de los habitantes. Este proyecto específico ha tenido una fuerte oposición por
parte de algunos habitantes del sector que han interpuesto tutelas para frenar el normal
desarrollo de los trabajos aduciendo que el programa de recuperación del humedal atraerá
una recreación activa y problemas de seguridad al sector, escudándose en manejos
ambientales de la conservación de la flora y fauna. Las autoridades locales han hecho caso a
las reclamaciones y las obras del humedal Córdoba se encuentran paralizadas.

La misión del Banco Mundial de febrero de 2003 consignó recomendaciones especialmente
dirigidas a: (i) la sostenibilidad a largo plazo de las obras terminadas; (ii) la implementación
de planes de restauración a largo plazo mediante esquemas de concesión a empresas
privadas u ONGs; (iii) la maximización de los resultados obtenidos mediante la detección y
control de conexiones ilegales; y (iv) el monitoreo y difusión de los resultados obtenidos. En
particular, en lo que concierne a la sostenibilidad a largo plazo de las obras terminadas, la
misión recomendó que la EAAB continuar buscando otras fuentes de financiación para así
limitar la carga financiera impuesta a los consumidores, quienes se prevé pagarán por estos
costos de rehabilitación. El programa de inversiones en recuperación de humedales requiere
una inversión total de CO$633 billones de los cuales faltan CO$287 billones por ejecutar.
Igualmente, la misión resaltó la falta de un programa de monitoreo a largo plazo y
recomendó que la EAAB desarrollara este plan y continuará como ente responsable de los
humedales hasta tanto el DAMA tuviera la capacidad y los fondos necesarios para llevar a
cabo esta labor.

La implementación de este componente y los logros son considerados altamente
satisfactorios pues se ha dejado una semilla que muy seguramente seguirá proliferando.




                                             - 41 -

8.2 Comentarios en relación con el desempeño de la EAAB

Financieros

El programa siempre contó con los recursos necesarios para la ejecución de todas sus obras
y los pagos hechos a sus diferentes contratistas fueron siempre oportunos. La EAAB en los
3 últimos años ha obtenido en sus ejercicios utilidades que han permitido tener un flujo de
caja muy sano.

Los desembolsos solicitados al Banco no se realizaron conforme a lo proyectado debido a la
misma situación de liquidez que la EAAB maneja y más aún ha hecho prepagos de deuda.

Contratación

Se siguieron las normas de contratación exigidas por el Banco como también los requisitos
para solicitud de adiciones que requirieran de "no objeción".

Algunas normas del Banco dan la posibilidad de interpretación que permite a los contratistas
variar los precios unitarios. Las apelaciones a adjudicaciones fue un aspecto que retrasó la
ejecución de algunas obras. La adjudicación a las ofertas con el criterio de menor costo
evaluado, permite que contratistas con precios bajos entren a competir permitiendo que
manipulen las especificaciones tratando de variarlas para lograr precios unitarios nuevos que
balanceen la obra durante su ejecución. Es muy difícil rechazar estas ofertas por las mismas
condiciones de un mercado en crisis donde los contratistas aportan a sus proyectos sus
equipos sin considerar su costo. De allí surgen precios irrealmente bajos. La EAAB ha
cambiado las formas de adjudicación nacional y está trabajando con adjudicaciones por
"medias" de los valores de las ofertas.

Algunos procedimientos de contratación cuando tienen precalificación pueden demorarse
hasta 2 años, caso del túnel alterno de Usaquén.

Cuando se requiere de algún perito extranjero se hace muy compleja su contratación y los
procesos se demoran más que el mismo estudio.

No se han presentaron inconvenientes y reclamaciones que alteraran el normal
funcionamiento del programa. Existió una magnífica colaboración con el personal del área
de contratación.

Administración

El proyecto fue apoyado por el personal directivo de la EAAB aunque no compartió con los
asesores del Banco la totalidad de las sugerencias en cuanto a la participación del sector
privado.

Aun se continúa por medio de la Administración con decisiones que modifican la buena



                                          - 42 -

    marcha de los proyectos puesto que se retiran personas idóneas con conocimientos del
    programa y de sus obras sin ninguna razón, por consiguiente no se capitalizan las
    experiencias adquiridas a través del mismo. La unidad ejecutora se vio disminuida en la
    totalidad de sus integrantes y sus funciones se desplazaron a otras áreas.

    Técnicos

    La EAAB ha demostrado con la ejecución de grandes obras su conocimiento específico y
    su capacidad para diseñarlas y realizarlas lo que ha redundado en una alta credibilidad
    dentro del sector.

    En el área de la nueva Gerencia de Tecnología se determinan las Normalizaciones Técnicas
    requeridas para la ejecución y adquisiciones.

    Durante la mayor parte del período de ejecución del proyecto, la relación entre los
    funcionarios del Banco y de la EAAB fue la mejor. Las misiones del Banco se realizaron
    con la mayor diligencia y confianza.

7.3   Comentarios en relación con el desempeño del Banco

    En 1993 comenzaron los preparativos para dimensionar el proyecto de préstamo Santa Fe,
    en un momento en el cual la EAAB estaba en un estado financiero bastante deteriorado, el
    apoyo del Banco con la estructuración del SAR fue de gran ayuda para objetivamente atacar
    integralmente las dolencias económicas por las que se atravesaba, el resultado de estos
    trabajos se pueden palpar hoy en día con la situación financiera, que presenta gran
    estabilidad y con la culminación de un proyecto que permitió a la EAAB consolidarse aún
    mas. La participación del Banco, las relaciones entre el Banco y el Organismo Ejecutor, en
    esta fase del proyecto, fueron altamente satisfactorias. La partición del proyecto en dos
    fases dificultó la evaluación del mismo, en donde no existió una correlación alta entre el
    SAR y los contratos de acuerdos del préstamo.

    En los primeros años de ejecución del proyecto, las relaciones entre los funcionarios del
    Banco y del EAAB se consideran satisfactorias. En los años cercanos a la revisión de medio
    período las relaciones pueden calificarse como satisfactorias básicamente por los enfoques
    con respecto a la PSP de ambas partes. En el últimos años de ejecución las relaciones
    pueden considerarse un poco distantes en lo que se refiere a futuras políticas de la EAAB
    para el tratamiento de aguas residuales en donde se ha manifestado que por el momento no
    está interesada en el manejo de este tema con el Banco, sin embargo se estableció un
    diálogo fluido entre el Banco y la EAAB. La calificación es de altamente satisfactoria. No
    obstante las diferencias de criterio en este tema.


    8.4 Comentarios Generales.


    La participación de la EAAB y del Banco en la preparación del proyecto fue muy activa y



                                               - 43 -

estaban concientes de la necesidad de estudiar el sector del agua y reformarlo, para lo cual
se comprometieron con este propósito. Las personas que participaron en su ejecución
estaban enfocadas en la dirección correcta. El Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) ayudo a
desarrollar el proyecto en una forma ordenada y coherente y se constituyo en la "Carta de
Navegación" para realizar el programa Santa Fe I con éxito.


Los costos proyectados fueron bien estimados y los costos reales no sobrepasaron lo
esperado.


Para la EAAB el proyecto en general fue más que satisfactorio puesto que a pesar de no
recibir el correspondiente préstamo para realizar la Fase 2 del programa, desarrolló el 100%
de Fase 1 y un alto porcentaje de la Fase 2 para lograr el 84% del alcance del proyecto
conjunto. Con el préstamo de US$145 ejecutó un proyecto de US$602, representando el
préstamo solamente el 24% del valor total.




                                         - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Maps




                            - 45 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 26608

                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                           To Guachala                                                                    To Fomeque     Choachi
To Tunja                        GUATAVITA                                                                                                                                      Untreated Water                                                                                         COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                               from Chingaza                                                                            CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA

                Guatavita                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND
                Reservoir                                                Tominé   River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                                                                                                                               San Rafael                          Wiesner                                                                                GENERAL LAYOUT AND
                                                                                                                                                Reservoir                          Treatment Plant                                                    VULNERABILITY CONTROL COMPONENT WORKS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Usaquen Tunnel
To Tunja                                                                                     Tuesaca    River
                                                                                                                                                      New Back-up
                                                                                                                                                     Usaquen Tunnel                                                                San Diego                  Vitelma
                                                                                                                                                                Santa Ana Tank                                                   Treatment Plant           Treatment Plant
                                                                                                                                                      Usaquen Pumping Station                                                                                                                 Untreated   Water from Regadera Reservoir
                 Bogotá  River      TOCANCIPA                                                                                                                                                                    Parque Nacional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tank                                                                                                          To Girardot

                                                                                                                                                                                                        S A N T A F E                D E        B O G O T A

                                                                                                                                   Plant                                                              River

                          Tibito                                                                               fromTibito Treatment
                                                                                                                                        Main                                                   Salitre
                     Pumping and
                       Treatment                                                                TreatedWater
                                                                                                                  78"Tibito Transmission

                          Plant                                                                                                                                                                     78"   Tibito
                                                                                                                                                                    SUBA                                          Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Main

                                                          Bajo Teusaca    To La Caro                CHIA                                                                                                                                                                        Casablanca
                                                            Scheme                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tank


                                                                                                                                                Bogotá   River                                                 Airport
                               ZIPAQUIRA
                                                                                                                                  COTA                                                                                                                          BOSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOACHA
     80°         75°               70°             65°
                                                                          REHABILITATION EXISTING
     ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                WATER MAINS:                                                                                                                                 Bogotá
                                                                                                     54"O AND LARGER                                                                                                                                                                                     To Sibaté
                                                       10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Muna
                                                                                                     30"O TO 48"O                                                                                                                                     River
10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir
                                                                                                     24"O AND SMALLER
 PANAMA                               VENEZUELA

                                                                                                   TUNNELS
                 COLOMBIA
                                                        5°                                         STORAGE TANKS
               SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
5°                                                                                                 WATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                          To Fusagasuga
   PACIFIC
   OCEAN          Map Area                                                                         WATER INTAKES

                                                                                                   PUMPING STATIONS

                                                                                                   FLOOD PRONE AREA                                                 To Medellin
                                                        0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0   1     2     3   4  5 Kilometers                  denominations and any
0°                                        BRAZIL                                                   URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                   other information shown
       ECUADOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on this map do not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            imply, on the    part of
                                          National Capital                                         ROADS OUTSIDE BUILT-UP AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0      1         2    3        4        5 Miles      The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            any judgment on the legal
                  PERU                    International                                            RIVERS
                                          Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        status  of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            or any endorsement
                                                       5°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            boundaries.
5°   80°          75°              70°              65°                                                                                                                                                               To Facatativa                                       To San Antonio


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JANUARY 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 25737




                                                                                                                                                          NT.     127


                                                                                                              DELCEDRO  INT.                         HTIGIR          STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                           SE                                                              AVENUE
                                                                                                         RIGHT CEDRO  INT.                                   LL                               STREET
                                                                                                                                                               CA

                                                                                        INT.               CEDRO
                                                                                                               INT.                                                                        100
                                                                                 TORCA                     LEFT
                                                                           RIGHT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AL CANTUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMUNEROS
         NORTHERN    HIGHWAY                 GUAYMARAL                                                      LA URIBE INT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                         RIO NEGRO
                                      AVENUE                                                                                                                                             RIGHT INT.       RIO NEGRO
                                                               Torca                                                                                                                                        PUMPING                                                    AVE.                                                                                                                                YOMASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            STATION                       30  AVE.
                                                                                                  STREET
                                                                                                                   BRITALIA INT.                                                                                      SALITRE LEFT INT                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AD             LAS                                                           River                                                          INT.



                                                                                               170                                                                                                            SALITRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PUMPING                                                                                                                                                                                                River
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salitre     68                                                            AME                                               Fucha
                                                                             FIRST STRETCH                                                                                                                             AVENUE                              D OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EL                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .                     RICAS                                                                                                                  Tu njuelo

                                                                                          OFTHE                                                                                                         BOYACA                              INT.         HT INT          AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALBINA LEFT INT.
                                                                                               BOGO                                                              SalitreRE             INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                  LEFT
                                                                                                                                                                              LIT                                                                                    ENEZ                                INT.         INT.               ALBINA RIGHT INT.
                                                                                                        TA                                                                  SA                                    AVENUE                              RIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CA         CISC             JIM                     AVE.    COMUNEROS     COMUNEROS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIGHT         LEFT                               RIO SECO RIGHT INT.
                                                                      ARRAYANES                            RIVERINT.                                                               AVENUE                                                                                                      LOS           LOS                                      RIO SECO LEFT INT.
                                                                                                                                                                             SAN                                                             FRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SAN
                                                                                 INT.                                                                                              M ARCOS     CO    LLECTOR
                                                                                                                              TIBABUYES
                                                                                                                             EASTERN INT.      NEGRAS                              EASTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                   JABOQUE
                                                                                                                                               CANAL         MEDELLIN                 INT.                                                                                                                                                                                  LIM ASINT.
                                                                                                                      TIBABUYES           AGUAS                                                                                         FUCHA
                                                                                                                    WESTERN INT.                                                 Villa                                                  RIGHT                   KEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                Gladys                                                                              NEDY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALSACIA           INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INT.                                                                                        SO
                                                                                                                                                                                 WESTERN                                Fontibon Final                                                                                    RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                 JABOQUE                                           Outfall                                                                              TUNJUELO
                                                                                                                                                                                   INT.                                                                                                                                   BAJO                          UTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INT.                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST.   INT.                         INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38                        TINTALITO    Gran Britalia                                HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Class                                         AY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRITALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INT.
                                                                                                                          COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IIIINT.
                                                                                                        CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                                                                                             Saucedal II
   80°          75°             70°                     65°                                                                                                                                                                     Saucedal I                                                     CIN            TINTAL             Grancolombiano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Patio Bonnito II                                                                          ISABEL
   ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                      SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND                                                                                                                    Tintalito II                                                 DINAMAR       STA.   INT.  IV         IV  TUNJ
                                                                               SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                     Patio Bonnito I                                                       CA           TINTALINT.TINTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gibraltar                                                        INT                   RIGHT  INT. UELO

                                                          10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tintalito I                                                                                       BAJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BERNARDINO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.
10°                                                                             PROPOSED PRIMARY SEWERAGE NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                               INT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SAN        IN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LA SE A        .TNIO                                                                        MUNA
PANAMA                              VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RESERVOIR
                                                                                                                   EXISTING COLLECTORS
                COLOMBIA
                                                            5°                                                     PROPOSED SANTAFE I COLLECTORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wastewater
              SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
5°                                                                                                                 COLLECTORS BY PRIVATE DEVELOPERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Treatment
  PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Plant
  OCEAN         Project Area                                                                                       FUTURE COLLECTORS

                                                                                                                   EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS

                                                                                                                   PUMPING STATIONS TO BE EXTENDED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors,
                                                            0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     denominations and any
                                                                                                                   PROPOSED SANTA FE I PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            other information shown
0°                                          BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on this map do not
     ECUADOR                                                                                                       FUTURE PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         imply,  on the   part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The World Bank Group,
                                             National Capital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0       1      2     3
                                                                                                                   LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   any judgment on the legal

                 PERU                        International                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         status  of any territory,
                                             Boundaries                                                            RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS                             or any endorsement

                                                           5°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                   URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          boundaries.
5°  80°          75°             70°                     65°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 25738

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOS MOLINAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COLLECTOR

                                                                                                                         LANAC                                                                                                               CHICO ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                          BAL
                                                                                                                              ALEUZERRES                        NAL                                                                                                                         LA VIEJA
                                                                                                                                                    CRISTO    CA                                LANAC
                                                                                                                                                                       CEDRO                            SAJELLAC                                COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOS ROSALES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEL NORTE         LA PERSEVERANCIA
                                                                                                                                                 SAN                 EL     CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLLECTOR             COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LAS DELICIAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLLECTOR                            Arzobispo                       SAN FRANCISCO
                                                                                                                                                                       DEL NORTE                                                              RIONEGROCANAL                                                                             Reservoir                         COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CASTELLANA
                                                                                                  TORCA     CANAL                                                           CANAL                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                  LANAC       DATNO         CANAL                                                             DELICIAS                                                                              SAN AGUSTIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CANAL                                                                              COLLECTOR       SAN BLAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAS                                                                                                        CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO                                                        VIEJA                               RS         ARZOBISPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CANAL
                                      GUAYMARAL      CANAL                                                                                                         CORDOBA CANAL                                                                                                                              NAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LA    CANAL                         SEA  CA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cordoba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIO NUEVO
                                                                           L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          River
                                                                                                                                                                                           NIZA                              SALITRE                       CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CANAL
                                                                      SCANA                                                                                                               CANAL
                                                                                            L
                                                                                                                                                                                      CORDOBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tu nju elo
                                                                                                                                                                                       ABAJO                                                                                                                                                                 ANALC
                                                                ERCEDE                  CANA

                                                               M                      ES               LAN                                                                             CANAL                                                 BOYACA        CANAL                                                                                                  S

                                                            LAS                 ARAYAN               CA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ERO

                                                                                                   TA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SAN CARLOS
                                                                                                 CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMUN                        RIOS ECOCANAL


                                                                                                                                                                    Juan Amarillo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CANAL
                                                                                                                                            L                                  Lagoon
                                                                                                                                        CANA                                                                                                                                       ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     QUE                                                                                                                                                              SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FONTIBON                                                                                                   SAN     VICENTE I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CANAL                                                                                                      VICENTE II CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BO                                                                                                                                                      CANAL                Reservoir
                                                                                             BOGOTA                  CANEJERA                                                                                                    JA   CANAL                                                DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 1
                                                                                                          RIVER                                                                                                                                                   COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CRA         COFONTIBON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             94       LLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                              Jaboque                                                                                                             ALSACIAAL                                                                         Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                              Lagoon                                                                                                                CAN                                                                              No. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37             COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CRA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLL                         102                                                                                    Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fontibon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLLECTOR                                                                                                            No. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F                                                  Pumping              ERICAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AVE.                                                     Station           AM AL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COLLECTOR                                              Fontibon        LASCAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lagoon     AVE.          AL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DIAGONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38ST.CAN         AL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IICAN         38 AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A          CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TINTAL NADAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRACAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gibraltar
   80°         75°             70°              65°                                                                                           COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                      Pumping                                        III

   ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                                CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                                                                                                                                                                  Station                      CUN           TAL AL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ISABAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EL
                                                                                                          SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND                                                                                                                                                                                                        DINAM   TINCAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .

                                                    10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STACAN        TALIVL

10°                                                                                            SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCA CANA            TINCANA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L
PANAMA                             VENEZUELA                                                  PROPOSED STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                            Rio Bogota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Flood Control                                                                                                                                MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RESERVOIR
                                                     5°
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
5°PACIFIC                                                                                           EXISTING PUMPING STATION                                                                   LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS
  OCEAN        Project Area
                                                                                                    PROPOSED PUMPING STATION                                                                   EMBANKMENTS

                                                                                                    EXISTING CANALS                                                                            RIVERS

                                                     0°                                             EXISTING COLLECTORS                                                                        HYDRAULIC REHABILITATION OF THE BOGOTA RIVER                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                                       PROPOSED SANTAFE I COLLECTORS                                                              FLOOD CONTROL OF THE TUNJUELO RIVER                                                                                                                                                                                                                             other information shown
     ECUADOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on this map do not
                                                                                                    FUTURE COLLECTORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0      1       2     3     4   5
                                       National Capital                                                                                                                                        URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          imply,  on the   part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                    COLLECTORS BY PRIVATE DEVELOPERS
                PERU                   International                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           any judgment on the legal
                                       Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS                               status  of any territory,
                                                    5°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or acceptance of such
5°  80°         75°             70°              65°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 25739

                                                                            Extension of Northeast                                                                        From Weismer Plant
                                                                               Network and Tanks
                                                                           Total Volume 2.300 m3                                                                                                    Santa Ana Tank
                                                                                                                                                                   Vol.                             Vol. 30.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                                 500 m3                     Vol.         ø
                                                           Horizonte Tank                                                                      Vol.                                     1.500 m3           280"
                                                           Vol. 1.000 m3                                                                   1.000 m3                   20"
                                                                                                                            ø 16"                          ø  16"  ø
                                                                                                                                                                                  60"         ø                              Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ø                     Rosales  Tunnel
                                                           Codito Tank                                  ø                                                                        ø              42"
                                                                                                             24"                        ø 24"      ø 60"                                                   42"
                                                          Vol. 1.000 m3      ø 12"                                           ø24"                                                                                             ø                                               Silencio Tank
                                                                                  ø 16"                                                                                                                         ø              12"                                          Vol. 30.000 m3                                                                                                                                   Paso Tank
                                                                               ø                                                                                                          ø
                                                                                 60"                                                                                                                               42"                                                     ø 42"                                                                 Vitelma Plant and Tank
                                                                                                                  12"                                                       60"             60"                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vol. 2.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ø 12"                                    ø  24"                                        Vol. 36.000 m3             ø
                                                                                                         16"     ø   ø 12"                                                 ø                                             ø  36"        ø 12"    ø 12"                                                                                                                                12"
                                                                                                        ø                                                                                                                                                                                            ø
                                                                                                                                 60"                                                    ø 60"       ø                                                                       ø42"                         24"                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ø 36"                                                ø                                                         ø 36"                                                Dorado Tank
                                                                                ø 24"                                           ø                                                                    60"             ø 24"                                    ø 30"                               42"                        ø20                              ø                  ø36"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24"                                          Vol. 2.000 m3                From Regadera
                                                                                                                                                       ø                                                   ø 24"                      ø 24"                   ø                                                  ø12"ø 24"                 ø    42"
                                                                           ø     ø 78"                                                                  78"                                                                                                     48"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12"                                                                                                                                                                 ø 36"  Piedra Herrada Tank
                                                                            16"                16"                    24"                      12"                                                             ø                                                                 ø                                                             ø
                                                                                              ø                                                                                                                                                         ø                                                                                                                  ø
                                                                                                                     ø                        ø                                                                   36"                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vol. 10.000 m3       Future
                                                                                                                                                                               16"                                         30 Avenue   Line     ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Monteblanco Tank
                                                                                                                                                                         ø                                                                               36"                        30"                    ø16"ø                                  24"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ø                      ø               20"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24"                 La Fiscala Tank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36"                                                      Vol. 5.000 m3                             Buena Vista
                                                                                  Boyaca                                                ø 16"                                                                                                                                                                    30"                                                              Vol. 5.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                                         Suba Tank                                ø                                                                                                                                    Vitelma                                                                                       Plant
                                                                                                       Ave nu e             Line                                                                                    42"                                                                                                                                                                                                     ø 2 0"
                                                                                                                                            Suba M.     ø    78"               Vol.          Salitre                              ø                      42"                 ø                            ø16"                                                  Ja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36"           ø16"                                                                                                                             Uval Tank
                                                                           Suba M. Norte Tank                                               Sur Tank                    90.000 m3                                                  42"                 ø                    ø             ø16"                                                   ø                                                                           Vol. 3.000 m3        Laguna
                                                                               Vol. 6.000 m3                                            ø   Vol. 2.000 m3                                                                                 42" ø          ø 42"                 48"                                                                30"          ø  lisco
                                                                                                                                         24"                                                         ø 16"                               ø      42"        ø                                  ø   36"                                                    ø 24"   24"                                              River                            Plant
                                                                          Suba Alto Tank                                                                                                                      ø 24"                                                                                                                                                    Line
                                                                                                                                                        ø 12"              ø    24"        ø  78"                                                             42"      ø   30"                                        ø     24"                                                  øMonteblanco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24"           Line   Tunjuelo                Mochuelo Tank
                                                                          Vol. 2.000 m3      "42              ø                                                                                                                                                                                          ø                              ø
                                                                                                               12"                                                                                                                                                                    ø                     36"                            12"                                                                                   Vol. 1.000 m3
                                                                                                ø                                                                                                                                                                                       48"                      ø 30"                                                                                               Juana Tank
                                                                                                  eniL    C.  Cali        Ave.           Line                       Line                       ø16"                             16"                                                                                                                                        Vitelma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ø           ø 42"                                                                                                  ø  ø   30"                                                       Vol. 3.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                            ø 60"                  ø24"ø
                                                                                                                                                                      ø                 12"
                                                                                                                                                                        12"                                                                                                                       ø                    24"                         16"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ø                                              ø
                                                                                                            ø
                                                                                                            Tibabuyes        Ave.         Line                                                                                                               ø 16"ø16"                             12"                                                                 24"
                                                                                                   Ave.       24"                                              Ave.ø 48"                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vol. 4.000 m3
                                                                                            ose ø                                                                                                                                                                                                       ø
                                                                                                          16"            16"        "61                                                   ø                          24"               ø                                                       ø                                                        24"
                                                                                                                     ø                 ø   ø 16"                                                                                         78"                                                      16"    42"                                         ø                                                   El Rincon Tank
                                                                                                                                                         risca 24"                           12"        ø          ø                                                                                                    ø 16"                                              ø            ø
                                                                                         S.J ø 12"                                          Line             ø                                             12"                                                                                                                                                               24"          24"            Vol. 3.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Vol.
                                                                       BOGOTA                          Cundinamarca                    Ave           Mo                                                                                                                                                          ø 24"
                                                                                                                                                                   ø24"                                           ø                                      ø                                                                                                       Vol. 4.000 m3                             El Cielo Tank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48"                                     78"                        ø 78"                                                                                                 4.000 m3
                                                                                 RIVER                                                              ø
                                                                                                                                                      16"                                 Ave.Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                24"
                                                                                                                                                                                              ø                ø                    ø 16"                              ø     ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12"                                                                          ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16"   24"     ø                                 "61                                                                               Vol. 2.000 m3


                                                                                                                                                                                        63                              ø 42"                       ø24"                                                                   ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24"    24"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Quiba Tank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ø                      ø                                                                                                           Vol. 1.000 m3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12"                     12"                                                    ø       42"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Villavice48"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ncio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ø     78"     Casablanca Tank          Jalisco, Castillo and Volador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ø12"                                ø                      ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ø       16"        Agobe                            ø      So                 Vol. 140.000 m3                Tanks Extension
                                                                                       COLOMBIA                                                                                                                         ø   16"                             48"              12"                          ø                     24"     uth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12"                                           rto Mej
                                                                         CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ø 30"                                                                                                ia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ø  16"      48"                                              High way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Line
   80°         75°             70°              65°               SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND                                                                                                                                                                                          ø                           Ave.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ø 16"                                                         Los              Line
   ATLANTIC OCEAN                                           SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                                        PROPOSED PRIMARY WATER                                                                                                                                                                                    Tintal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ø      A
                                                    10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16" ve.
10°                                                                      DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                  South                        eniLseleruaL

PANAMA                             VENEZUELA
                                                                                         EXISTING NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                            Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                  PROPOSED SANTAFE I NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RESERVOIR
                                                     5°
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                                                           FUTURE WORKS
5°PACIFIC                                                                                WORKS BY PRIVATE DEVELOPERS
  OCEAN        Project Area
                                                                                         PROPOSED PUMPING STATIONS

                                                                                         EXISTING WATER TANKS

                                                     0°                                  PROPOSED WATER TANKS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                            FUTURE WATER TANKS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            other information shown
    ECUADOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on this map do not
                                                                                         LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0        1      2       3       4       5                         imply, on the    part of
                                       National Capital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       any judgment on the legal
                PERU                   International                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                                       Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      status  of any territory,

                                                    5°                                   URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       or acceptance of such

5° 80°          75°             70°              65°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 25740




                                                                                                                        127
                                                                                 170
                                                                                                                           STREET                                   7 AVENUE
                                                                                    STREET
                                                                                                                                                   STREET

                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                             NORTHERN   HIGHWAY




                                                                                                                                                                       30 STREET              E
                                                                                                                                                                                         AVENU
                                                                                                                                                                 68
                                                                                                                                                                   AVENUE              DO                                               River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tu njuelo


                                                           AVENUE
                                                 GUAYMARAL                                                              Salitre                           BOYACA                 ELDORA

                                                                                                                                                                AVENUE

                                                                                                                                         AVENUE



                                                                                                                                 MEDELLIN




   80°         75°             70°              65°

   ATLANTIC OCEAN
                                                                                                   COLOMBIA
                                                          10°                             CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
10°
                                                                               SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND
PANAMA                             VENEZUELA
                                                                           SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RESERVOIR
                                                           5°
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                                       PROPOSED SECONDARY WATER AND SEWERAGE NETWORKS
5°PACIFIC
  OCEAN        Project Area



                                                                                                  PROPOSED SECONDARY WATER AND SEWERAGE NETWORKS
                                                           0°                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                  LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                          denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                    other information shown
     ECUADOR                                                                                      RIVERS                                                                                                                                         on this map do not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 imply,  on the   part of
                                       National Capital                                           URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                           0   1   2      3     4   5                    The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 any judgment on the legal
                PERU                   International                                                                                                                                                                                             status  of any territory,
                                       Boundaries                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS                            or any endorsement
                                                          5°                                                                                                                                                                                     or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
5°  80°         75°             70°              65°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 25741




                                                                                        170                         127

                                                                                           STREET                      STREET                                   7 AVENUE

                                                                                                           1                                   STREET
                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                            100         NORTHERN HIGHWAY
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                             8                     10


                                                                                                                             5                             6                               E
                                                                                                                                                                          30STREET
                                                                                                                                                                  7                 AVENU     9

                                                                                                                                                             68                                                                                      River
                                                                                                                                                               AVENUE             DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11                         Tu njuelo


                                                           AVENUE
                                                 GUAYMARAL                                                          Salitre                           BOYACA                ELDORA         AVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                          Z              12

                                                                                                            3                                               AVENUE                  JIMENE

                                                                                                                                     AVENUE



                                                                                                                             MEDELLIN




                                                                                                  COLOMBIA

   80°         75°             70°              65°                             CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA

   ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                        SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                      SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                          10°
10°                                                                  PROPOSED SEWERAGE REHABILITATION WORKS

PANAMA                             VENEZUELA
                                                                             SECTOR NAME:

                                                                          1  CEDRITOS                             ERRATIC CONNECTION                                                                                                                   MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RESERVOIR
                                                           5°             2  LA URIBE INTERCEPTOR                 HYDRAULIC CAPACITY REHABILITATION
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
5°                                                                        3  SUBA
  PACIFIC                                                                                                         STRUCTURAL DEFICIENCIES REPAIRS
                                                                          4  LA CAROLINA AND CANAL CALLEJAS
  OCEAN        Project Area                                                                                       LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS
                                                                          5  CORDOBA RESERVOIR

                                                                          6  SALITRE ALLEVIATION COLLECTORS       RIVERS

                                                                                                                  URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE
                                                           0°             7  WEST SALITRE CANAL                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors,
                                                                          8  SEARS COLLECTORS                                                                                                                                                                 denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                 other information shown
     ECUADOR                                                              9  22 STREET COLLECTORS                                                                                                                                                             on this map do not

                                       National Capital                   10 CITY CENTER NETWORKS                                                                                                              0   1   2      3     4   5                     imply,  on the   part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              any judgment on the legal
                PERU                   International                      11 CHIGUAZA CREEK
                                       Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS                             status  of any territory,
                                                                          12 ALBINA CANAL
                                                          5°                                                                                                                                                                                                  or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              or acceptance of such

5°  80°         75°             70°              65°                                                                                                                                                                                                          boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 25742




                                                                     170
                                                                                                                                                   7 AVENUE
                                                                        STREET
                                                                                                                                  STREET
                                                                                                       127
                                                                                                                               100
                                                                                 NORTHERNHIGHWAY
                                                                                                          STREET



                                                                                                                                                          30STREET
                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                        AVENU

                                                                                                                                                   68                 DO                                   River                                          River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tu njuelo


                                                           AVENUE
                                                 GUAYMARAL                                             Salitre                           BOYACA      AVENUE     ELDORA
                                                                                                                                                                                       LAS            Fucha
                                                                                                                                               AVENUE                           AVENUE    AMERICAS


                                                                                                                        AVENUE



                                                                                                                MEDELLIN




   80°         75°             70°              65°

   ATLANTIC OCEAN
                                                                                                       COLOMBIA
                                                          10°                               CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA
10°

PANAMA                             VENEZUELA                                           SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                                  SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                           MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RESERVOIR
                                                           5°
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                                                PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION WORKS
5°PACIFIC
  OCEAN        Project Area
                                                                                                 RENOVATION OF DAMAGED NETWORKS

                                                                                                 RENOVATION OF NETWORKS DUE TO

                                                           0°                                    POPULATION DENSITY INCREASE                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                                    RENOVATION OF OLD NETWORKS                                                                                                                                        other information shown
     ECUADOR                                                                                     LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                             on this map do not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   imply,  on the   part of
                                       National Capital
                                                                                                 RIVERS                                                                                                             0   1   2      3     4   5                     The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   any judgment on the legal
                PERU                   International
                                       Boundaries                                                URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                            status  of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS
                                                          5°                                                                                                                                                                                                       or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or acceptance of such

5°  80°         75°             70°              65°                                                                                                                                                                                                               boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEPTEMBER 1995

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 25743




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.56%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23.76%
                                                                                                                 18.12%

                                                                                    1.64%       1
                                                                                                                                                    2.26%         2
                                                                                                                                                                        4.30%                            3.99%      17       29.14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29.73%
                                                                                                                                                          0.66%                      0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.21%                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00%
                                                                                                                                                           12                                                   14                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.55%           37.90%                     29.11%

                                                                                                                                                              10.86%                   13                          16.44%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.19%
                                                                                                             16.58%                                                                                                                 0.32%

                                                                                                                                                                                      1.86%                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.46%
                                                                              2.67%                                    Salitre                                                                                                                  24.90%

                                                                                                                                                0.59%
                                                                                              11                                                                                                             16                         18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.25%

                                                                                                                                            17.68%                                                                     8.28%
                                                                                                                                   10                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                            0.00%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19.22%
                                                                                                                                                                       17.72%
                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%



                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                                       9.50%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.21%                                          47.58%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.28%

   80°         75°             70°              65°                                              COLOMBIA

   ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                    CITY OF SANTAFE DE BOGOTA

                                                                            SANTAFE I WATER SUPPLY AND                                                                                                                              23.14%
                                                    10°
10°                                                                     SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
PANAMA                             VENEZUELA                        POVERTY INDICATORS IN THE AREA OF PROPOSED
                                                              SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE NETWORKS                                                                                                                                                                       MUNA
               COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RESERVOIR
                                                     5°
             SANTAFE DE BOGOTA                             SECTORS:
5°PACIFIC                                                  1 USAQUEN´      11 SUBA                       0.46%
  OCEAN        Project Area                                                                                          INADEQUATE SERVICES * (PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION)
                                                           2 CHAPINERO     12 BARRIOS UNIDOS            16.58%
                                                           3 SANTA FE                                                POOR PERSONS* (PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION)
                                                                           13 TEUSAQUILLO
                                                           4 SAN CRISTOBAL 14 LOS MARTIRES
                                                                                   ´                                 PROPOSED AREAS OF SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE NETWORKS
                                                     0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors,
                                                           5 USME          15 ANTONIO NARINO                         LAGOONS OR RESERVOIRS                                                                                                                                              denominations and any
0°                                     BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           other information shown
    ECUADOR                                                6 TUNJUELITO    16 PUENTE ARANDA                          RIVERS                                                                                                                0   1    2     3      4    5                 on this map do not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        imply, on the    part of
                                       National Capital    7 BOSA          17 LA CANDELARIA                          URBAN DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                                                                                                                             The World Bank Group,

                PERU                   International       8 KENNEDY       18 RAFAEL URIBE URIBE                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS                           any judgment on the legal
                                       Boundaries          9 FONTIBON
                                                                    ´      19 CIUDAD BOLIVAR
                                                                                         ´                                                                                                                                                                                              status  of any territory,
                                                    5°                                                  *Definitions based on the Unsatisfied Basic Nees (UBN) methodology of the Colombian Government.                                                                                 or any endorsement
                                                           10 ENGATIVA                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or acceptance of such
5° 80°          75°             70°              65°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEPTEMBER 1995

