Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3953-CO (Fixed Rate)
Sponsor Agreement
(Santa Fe I Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DISTRITO CAPITAL
Dated December 20, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3953-CO
SPONSOR AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DISTRITO CAPITAL (the District).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Empresa de Acueducto 
y Alcantarillado de Bogota (the Borrower), an enterprise rendering its services as a 
public utility and operating mostly in the jurisdiction of the District (a political 
subdivision of the Republic of Colombia), and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount equal to eighty seven million dollars 
($87,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the District agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the District, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Sponsor Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  The District declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the carrying out of the Project, including the funds to be 
transferred to the Borrower under the Transfer Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and in respect of 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part H.3 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, if the District executes 
any activity under such Part of the Project on behalf of the Borrower, the references 
to the Borrower in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement shall be deemed references to the 
District, unless the context otherwise requires.
Section 2.03. (a) The District shall, through DAMA and as warranted, take all 
action as shall be necessary or convenient on its part to coordinate with the Borrower 
the carrying out of
Part H.3 of the Project and to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations 
under Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part H.3 of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the District shall take all such action on its part as shall be required 
to enable the
Borrower to comply with its obligations under paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the 
Loan Agreement and to meet the disbursement conditions stipulated under paragraph 2 
(b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The District shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
The District shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of
Loan or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
including the action plan set forth in the attachment to the letter referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, or the meeting of the Targets or the 
performance by the District of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the District
Section 3.01. The District shall take all action, including the granting of all 
necessary authorizations, licenses, permits and all other approvals required under the 
Decreto Ley or under Law 142, if any, to enable the Borrower to fulfill all its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement,
particularly under Sections 3.01, 3.07, 3.08, 5.02 and 5.03 thereof, and to meet the 
Targets.
Section 3.02. The District shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the District 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the District thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the District:
Alcaldia Mayor de
Santa Fe de Bogota
Carrera 8 No. 10-65
Despacho Senor Alcalde
Bogota
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the District 
may be taken or executed by the District's Secretary of Finance or such other person 
or persons as such Secretary shall designate in writing, and the District shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
DISTRITO CAPITAL
By /s/ Alejandro Deeb Paez
Authorized Representative
