Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
3953-CO (Fixed Rate)
 
Loan Agreement
(Santa Fe I Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
-
E.S.P.
Dated December
20, 1995
 
LOAN NUMBER
3953-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December
20,
1995
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA - 
E.S.P. (the Borrower).
 
WHEREAS
(A) Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor), Distrito Capital (the 
District), a political subdivision of the Guarantor, and the Borrower, a public
utility company operating
as an industrial and commercial enterprise of the District, having been satisfied as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by means of the Sponsor Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and the District
(the Sponsor Agreement) the District, in whose jurisdiction the 
Borrower renders most of its services as a public utility company, has agreed to
provide certain assurances to the Bank in connection with the Borrower's obligations
under this Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(D)
by another agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Page  2
Borrower
(
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement
)
the Bank has agreed to
provide a loan in an amount equal to $58,000,000 (fifty eight million dollars) (the 
Floating Rate Single Currency Loan) to assist in the financing of the Project 
described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement;
(E)
by another agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank
(the Floating Rate Single Currency Guarantee Agreement) the Guarantor has agreed 
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Floating Rate Single
Currency Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Floating
Rate Single Currency Guarantee Agreement; and
(F)
by means of another agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
the District
(the Floating Rate Single Currency Sponsor Agreement) the District has 
agreed to provide certain assurances to the Bank in connection with the Borrower's
obligations under the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement.
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, in the aforesaid Guarantee and Sponsor Agreements, and in the Floating Rate
Single Currency Loan, Guarantee and Sponsor Agreements;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
 
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
 
(a)
"DAMA" 
means Departamento Administrativo del Medio Ambiente
(Administrative Department of the Environment), an administrative subdivision of the 
District;
(b)
"Decreto-Ley" 
means the Estatuto Organico
(Organizational Statute) of the 
District, as sanctioned by the Guarantor's Decree-Law 1421 of July 21, 1993 enacted by 
the Guarantor's Executive Branch pursuant to the provisions of Article
41
of the
Guarantor's Constitution;
(c)
"District" 
means Distrito Capital
(Capital District), the district 
established on the basis of the former Municipality of Santa Fe de Bogota, the
Guarantor's capital, by virtue of the corresponding provisions of the Special Regime
stipulated in Chapter
4
of Title XI of the Guarantor's Constitution and of the Decreto
-
Ley;
(d)
"Estatutos" 
means the Borrower's By
-laws adopted by the Borrower's Board 
of Directors under Resolution No. 011 of 1994 (September 16, 1994), as approved by 
Decree No.
569
of September
19, 1994 of the District's Mayor (Alcalde Mayor);
 
(e)
"First Annual Subprogram" 
means the initial annual subprogram to be
carried out under Part H.3 of the Project as furnished to the Bank by the Borrower 
through its letter
4000-95-195 dated May 26, 1995 and the attachments thereto 
describing such subprogram;
(f)
"First Loan Agreement" 
means the loan agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan No. 536-CO (Bogota Water Supply Project), of June 3, 1968;
 
(g)
"Fourth Loan Agreement" 
means the loan agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan No. 2512-CO (Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Project), of 
April
3,
1985;
Page  3
(h)
"Law 142" 
means the Guarantor's Law No
.
142
of July
11,
1994
(Ley de
Servicios Publicos Domiciliarios); 
 
(i)
"Sponsor Agreement" 
means the agreement between the Bank and the
District, of even date herewith and signed in connection with this Loan Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Sponsor Agreement;
(j)
"Second Loan Agreement" 
means the loan agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan
741-CO (Second Bogota Water Supply Project), of May 28, 1971;
 
(k)
"Special Account" 
means the account referred to in Section
2.02
(b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Subsequent  Pluri-annual Subprogram" 
means the pluri
-annual subprogram 
to be executed under Part H.3 of the Project as approved by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of
Section
3.04 (b) (ii) of this Loan Agreement;
 
(
m
)
"Table" 
means the table set forth in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this
Loan Agreement;
(n)
"Target" 
means each of the targets set forth in tables
2
and
3
of the
action plan attached to the letter referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Loan 
Agreement;
(o)
"Third Loan Agreement" 
means the loan agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower for Loan
1697-CO (Third Bogota Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Project) 
of November
30,
1979;
 
(p)
"Total Quality Management Program" 
means the program of management
awareness, personnel training and management development that the Borrower is pursuing
as a means of
enhancing organizational effectiveness and efficiency and improving management
communications throughout the Borrower's organization;
(q)
"Transfer Agreement" 
means the agreement entered into between the
District and the Borrower on September
15,
1994
with respect to the transfer from the
former to the latter, for purposes of the Project, of an amount equivalent to not less
than $117,000,000;
 
(r)
"UFW" 
means any quantity of water supplied by the Borrower which because
of leaks, clandestine connections or otherwise, remains unbilled, and thus unaccounted
for; and
(s)
"UFW Index" 
means the index obtained when the difference between
quantities of water supplied and water billed, both by the Borrower, is divided by the
quantity of water supplied, and the quotient is multiplied by
100.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty
seven million dollars
($87,000,000).
 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for expenditures
made
(or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and not financed out of the proceeds of the
Floating Rate Single Currency Loan.
 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  4
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section
2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal  amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November
15
in each year.
 
Section
2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, engineering, public utility and environmental practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project: (i) in accordance with the action plan; and 
(ii) 
meeting the Targets, both as set forth in the attachment to the supplemental
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith, except for changes thereto
which, in the opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, shall not adversely affect the
objectives of the Project.
 
Section
3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08
of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this
purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to ensure the future
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
 
Section
3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all action as shall be necessary or 
convenient on its part in order to coordinate with the District, through DAMA, as
warranted, the carrying out of Part H.3 of the Project including but not limited to 
the aspects related to the obligations of the
Borrower under Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Part H.3 of the Project.
 
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower in consultation with DAMA, shall: (i) begin not later than 
February
15, 1996
the study to be executed under Part H.3 (b) of the Project, complete said study not 
later than August
31, 1996, and, on the basis of the findings and recommendations of 
such study, and upon termination thereof, prepare and submit to the Bank for approval,
the pluri-annual subprogram proposed for purposes of Part H.3 (c) of the Project; and 
(ii) (A) take into account all Bank's comments, if any, to such subprogram and, upon 
Bank's approval, execute the Subsequent Pluri-annual Subprogram for purposes of Part 
H.3 (c) of the Project; and (B) not change the First Annual Subprogram or the 
Subsequent Pluri-annual Subprogram except for changes thereto, which in the opinion of 
the Borrower and the Bank shall not adversely affect the Subprogram in question.
 
Section
3.05. (a) In respect of each of the works referred to in Part H.2 of the 
Project and without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the following
paragraphs of this Section, the Borrower shall not invite bids for the works in
question, unless each of the persons to be relocated pursuant to the resettlement
subprograms under such Part of the Project shall have been provided, by means of the
specific actions formulated under the corresponding subprograms, with a
new home or adequate compensation or both, as such person may be entitled to under
such plan, and evidence thereof shall have been furnished to the Bank in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
and
(c)
of this Section, and in respect of works under Parts A through E of the
Project and the mitigating measures under Part H.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
not invite bids for the works or measures in question, unless the detailed engineering
under Part G.1
for the Project in respect
of such works or measures shall have been completed and evidence thereof shall have
been furnished to the Bank, both in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the preceding 
paragraphs of this Section or Section
9.09
of the General Conditions, and in respect
of: (i) works for Part B.1 of the Project or, (ii) works for the construction of:  (A) 
each sewerage interceptor, trunk sewer and storm water drainage system under Part B.2 
of the Project or
(B) each of the pumping stations under Part B.3 of the Project or 
(C) each reservoir or each of the storage tanks under Part C.2 of the Project or (D) 
each pumping station under Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall not invite bids 
for the works in question, unless all the corresponding land and rights in respect of
land required for the carrying out of the such works shall have been acquired.
 
Section
3.06. The Borrower shall establish, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, the committee referred to in Part F.6 of the Project on or before January
31, 1996, or by such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
 
Section
3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, by a date not later than 90 days after the 
submission to the Borrower and the Bank, by the respective consultants, of the study
to be carried out under Part G. 2 (a) (i) of the Project or by such later date as may 
be agreed with the Bank, prepare terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the
carrying out of Part G. 2 (a) (ii) of the Project.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, upon completion of Part G. 2 (a) (ii) of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank a time-table for the carrying out of the plan developed under such 
Part of the Project, afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on
such plan and time-table, and carry out all action under said plan in accordance with 
the said time table, except for changes thereto which, in the opinion of the Borrower
and the Bank, shall not adversely affect the objectives of the plan.
 
Section
3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) by a date not later than thirty days after 
submission to the Borrower and the Bank, by the respective consultants, of their work
under Part G.2
(b) of the Project, prepare and submit to the Bank the alternatives and 
respective plans to be developed under said Part of the Project;
(b) by a date not 
later than ninety days after such submission, shall review with the Bank each of the
plans in question and  its implications in connection with the Borrower's obligations
under this Agreement; and
(iii) thereafter, carry out such actions with respect to 
participation of the private sector in Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project as shall be 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, except for changes thereto which, in
Page  6
the opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, shall not adversely affect the objectives of
the plan in question.
 
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section
4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
 
Section
4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and environmental practices.
 
Section
4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
 
Section
4.04. The Borrower shall maintain the Committee established for purposes 
of Part F.6 of the Project and the group under the lead of the UFW coordinator, 
position established by Resolution No. 1629 of October 13, 1993 of the Borrower's 
General Manager for purposes of the reduction of UFW, and provide them at all times
with such funds, facilities, services and other resources as shall be appropriate or
necessary to enable said committee and unit to discharge their
respective functions.
 
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section
5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including separate accounts to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year, audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied
(including, in the 
case of such fund, 
annual actuarial evaluations thereof), by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six
months after the end of each of the Borrower fiscal
years
1995, 1996, and 
1997, and not later than four months 
after the end of each of the Borrower
fiscal years thereafter: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as so 
audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account under Categories
(1)
through
(4)
of the Table were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, 
records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was
made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit
referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during fiscal
year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related
withdrawals.
 
Section
5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain, for each of its fiscal year after its fiscal year ending on December
31, 
1994, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 
45% for each of the years 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999, and 40% for each year 
thereafter.
 
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion. 
 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph
(a)
for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures
(including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to 
meet such requirements
.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" 
means all expenses related to
operations
(other than merely accounting expenses shown in the
Borrower's financial
statements as adjustments due to
inflation and likewise), excluding interest 
and other charges on debt, 
and including administration, adequate maintenance,
taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, payments to the Borrower's existing
pensioners, payments made under the Borrower's medical plan, and payments in
respect of: (A) the Borrower's share of its employees' 
contributions into the
corresponding public or private, as
applicable, social security and medical
plans; and
(B) transfers 
by the Borrower to the administrator of the
corresponding
pension fund of actuarial liabilities
(including accrued
interest charges), related to the respective Borrower's employees retiring 
after December
31, 1995.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" 
means revenues from all
sources related to
operations
(other than merely accounting revenues
shown in the Borrower's
financial statements as adjustments due
to inflation and likewise) and the 
term "adequate 
maintenance
"
means expenses directly related to maintenance
which shall not be lower than the following percentages of direct operating
revenues
(as denominated in the Borrower's financial statements) for the 
fiscal year in question: 2%, 2%, 3%, 4% and 5% for each of the Borrower's 
fiscal years
1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, 
and
6%
for each
fiscal year thereafter.
 
Section
5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than
1.00 for 
each of fiscal years
1996
and
1997, and 1.10 thereafter.
 
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
Page  8
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set-forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph
(a)
for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures
(including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure of levels of its rates) in order to 
meet such requirements
.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" 
means cash, all assets which could in
the ordinary
course of business be converted into cash within three
months
(excluding from 
such assets at least 70% of the aggregate 
value of accounts receivable), all 
marketable securities and prepaid
expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next
fiscal year.
 
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" 
means all liabilities which will
become due and
payable or could under circumstances then existing be
called for payment
within twelve months, including accounts
payable, customer advances, debt
service requirements, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
 
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" 
means the aggregate amount of
repayments
(including sinking fund payments if any) of, and interest 
and other charges
on, debt.
 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
 
Section
5.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the financial 
covenants set forth in Sections
5.02 and 5.03 of this Agreement supersede any of the 
financial covenants on the matters referred to in Sections
5.03, 5.04 and 5.05 
contained in the First Loan Agreement, Second Loan Agreement, Third Loan Agreement and
Fourth Loan Agreement.
To that effect, if any of the covenants in said Agreements may
be inconsistent with the terms of the above-referenced Sections of this Agreement, the 
former covenants shall be deemed amended and substituted by such Sections.
 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section
6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
 
(a)
The Estatutos or the Decreto-Ley or Law 142 or the Transfer Agreement, or 
any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated repealed  or
waived so as to
affect materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank: (i) the operations or 
financial position of the Borrower;
(ii)
the ability of the District to perform any of
its obligations under
the Sponsor Agreement; or
(iii) the carrying out of the Project;
 
(b)
The District shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Sponsor Agreement;
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the District will be able to perform its obligations under the Sponsor Agreement.
Page  9
Section
6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank and the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
 
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section
7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
 
(a)
the execution and delivery of the Sponsor Agreement on behalf of the 
District have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Floating Rate Single 
Currency Loan Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Loan
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
 
Section
7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Sponsor Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the District, and is legally binding upon the District
in accordance with its terms.
 
Section
7.03. The date March 20, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
 
Section
8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
 
For the Borrower:
Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado
Calle
22
C, No. 40-90
Santa Fe de Bogota
Page  10
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Cables Acueducto
43411
Bogota
Colombia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
BOGOTA
-
E.S.P.
 
By
/s/ Alejandro Deeb Paez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                          Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for
26,800,000          40%
Parts A.1, A.2, B.2 (a)
B.3(a), B.4(a), B.5,
C.1 (a), C.2(a), C.3(a)
D.1(a), D.2(a), D.3(a),
D.4(a), E.1(a), E.2(a),
F.1, F.2, F.4, H.1 and
H.3 of the Project
 
(2) Goods for Parts A.1, A.2,
31,700,000           40%
B.2(a), B.3(a), B.4(a), B.5,
C.1(a), C.2(a), C.3(a),D.1(a),
D.2(a),D.3(a), D.4(a), E.1(a)
E.2(a), F.1, F.2, F.4
H.1 and H.3 of the Project
 
(3) Consulting services
13,000,000            52%
for Parts F.2, H.1, H.3
and G of the Project
other than Parts
G.1(a)(ii), G.1(b)(ii),
Page  11
Part G.2(j) and G.2(k) of
the Project
(4) Training under Part F.3 of
500,000            52%
the Project
(5) Unallocated
15,000,000
 
TOTAL
87,000,000
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for
: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $8,700,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after November
1,
1994; and (b) expenditures under Part H.3 of 
the Project: (i) unless the Bank shall have received evidence  satisfactory to the 
Bank that expenditures in question are included in the First Annual Subprogram or in
the Subsequent Pluri-annual Subprogram, as the case may be, and that the District 
shall have taken or shall have committed to take, as the case may be, such action on
its part as shall be required, if any, for the Borrower to incur in said expenditures
or to achieve the results aimed at by the Borrower when incurring in said
expenditures, or both; and
(ii) that, as part of such evidence, the District or the 
Borrower, or both, shall have made a representation to the Bank to  the effect that
the action in question has been taken or committed to be taken by the District, or to
the effect that no such action by the District is required.
 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent and $4,000,000 equivalent, respectively, and under 
contracts other than the first two
contracts to be awarded under Part C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (or a larger 
number if the proviso to Part D.2 of such Schedule 4 becomes applicable); and (ii) 
consulting firms' services and individual consultants' services under contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively, 
except in the cases provided for in Part B of Section II of Schedule
4
to this
Agreement where prior reviews required; all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
 
4.
Each application submitted by the Borrower for withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall be deemed submitted under a representation that the expenditures to be financed
with Loan proceeds withdrawn under such application have not been, or are not in the
process of being, financed with the proceeds of the Floating Rate Single Currency
Loan, provided, however, that the Borrower shall be able to request expressly that one
or more given expenditures be financed partially under the Loan and partially under
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan.
 
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are
(i)
supporting and consolidating the
transition of the Borrower from a public service agency to a commercially-run public 
utility company;
(ii) supporting a revamped economic and tariff framework; (iii) 
expanding water distribution and sewerage services to the urban poor;
(iv) addressing 
major environmental concerns of the heavily polluted Bogota River; and
(v) reduce the 
vulnerability of the Bogota water supply and sewerage systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
 
Part A:
Vulnerability Control
 
1.
Rehabilitation of a section of about 31 kilometers (Km), between a point about 4 
Km away from the Tibito water treatment plant
(the Plant) and Street No. 80, of the 2 
meters diameter Tibito
-Casablanca pipeline that is one of the two pipelines which 
Page  12
convey treated water from the Plant to Santa Fe de Bogota
(
Bogota
).
2.
Rehabilitation of the Plant, which presently treats, on a continuous basis, a 
flow of only
3.5
cubic meters
(
m
3) per second (
m
3/s), so as to restore the Plant 
capacity to treat the nominal flow of
11
m
3/s.
 
3.
Construction of the alternate Usaquen tunnel of about 2.7 Km length and 3.5 
m
diameter, which will serve as a backup system to convey the treated water of the
Wiesner water treatment
plant to the Santa Ana Reservoir in Bogota, in case of failure of the main Usaquen
tunnel.
 
Part B:
Primary Sanitary and Storm Drainage Sewerage and Pollution Control
 
1.
Construction of the first stage of the Bogota River Interceptor, the 
Torca-Salitre stretch of about 12.5 Km length, constructed of pipes with diameters 
varying between
1.8
m and
2.15
m, a stretch of box culvert with a cross section of
about
2.5
m x
3
m and a section of a tunnel of about
375
m length with a
3
m diameter
.
2.
(a)
Construction of about 35 Km of sewage interceptors, trunk sewers and 
storm water drainage systems, constructed of pipes with diameters varying between
0.3 
m and
2
m and of box culverts with cross sections varying between
1.8 
m x
2.6 
m and
1.8 
m x
4
m, as well as about
17
Km of drainage canals, all in the Salitre, Jaboque,
Tintal and Tunjuelo drainage basins, provided, however, that only an initial part of
the aforesaid works will be included in this Part B
2.(a) of the Project in respect of 
the Tintal basin.
 
(b)
Construction of about 27 Km of sewage interceptors, trunk sewers and 
storm water drainage systems, constructed of pipes and box culverts as described in
Part B
2. (a) above, as
well as about
12
Km of drainage canals, all in the Torca, Fucha and Tintal drainage
basins, provided, however, that only the remainder of the aforesaid works for the
Tintal drainage basin not carried out under Part B
2.(a)
of the Project will be
included in this Part B
2. (b) of the Project.
 
3.
(a)
Construction of 2 
main sewage pumping stations
(Gibraltar and Salitre) 
and expansion of
2
smaller sewage pumping stations
(Villa Gladis and Fontibon) in the 
Tintal and Salitre drainage basins.
 
(b)
Construction of 1 
main sewage pumping station
(Torca) in the Torca 
drainage basin.
4.
Construction of: (a) one storm water peak attenuation lagoon (Canal Tintal of 
about
3
million m
3); and (b) another such lagoon (Fontibon of about 0.73 
million m
3).
 
5.
Rehabilitation of dikes on the left bank of the Bogota River, in front of Bogota 
at Fontibon and Tintal, with a total length of about
11
Km, and average height of
about
1
m
.
Part C:
Primary Water Distribution System
 
1.
Installation of: (a) about 54 Km of primary distribution mains (of diameters 
varying between
300
millimeters
(
mm
)
and
1,500
mm; and
(b) about 56 additional Km of 
same type of mains.
 
2.
(a)
Construction of four storage tanks in Jalisco, Volador, Casillo and 
Quiba, in the southwestern sector of Bogota and with a combined capacity of about
10,800 
m
3.
(b)
Construction of three storage and compensation reservoirs: Suba (about 
90,000 
m
3), Suba Medio Sur (about 2,000 
m
3) and Suba Medio Norte (about 2,000 
m
3), as 
well as rehabilitation and increasing the volume of six storage tanks in the
northeastern sector of Bogota
(in Santana Nuevo, Panuelito, Bosque Medina, Bosque de
Pinos, Saratama and Santa Cecilia Cerro Norte) with a combined capacity of about 3,400 
m
3.
 
3.
(a)
Construction of two pumping stations in the southeastern and southwestern 
Page  13
sectors of Bogota
(
Volador and Monteblanco Uval
).
(b)
Expansion of three pumping stations (Bombeos Nororientales) in the 
northwestern sector of Bogota.
 
Part D:
Secondary Water, Sewerage and Drainage Networks and Service Connections 
for
Low-Income neighborhoods
 
1.
Construction of: (a) about 125 Km of secondary and minor water distribution 
mains, of diameters between
75
mm and
300
mm; and
(b) about 225 additional Km of mains 
of the same type.
 
2.
Construction of: (a) about 265 Km of secondary sewage collectors, of diameters 
between
200
mm and
400
mm; and
(b) about 270 additional Km of collectors of the same 
type.
 
3.
Construction of: (a) about 225 Km of storm water drains, of diameters between 
250
mm and
1,500 
mm; and
(b) about 545 additional Km of same type of drains.
 
4.
Installation of: (a) about 70,000 water service connections and of about 100,000 
sewerage service connections; and
(b) about 10,000 additional water service 
connections and of about
100,000 additional sewerage service connections.
 
Part E:
Rehabilitation Works
1.
Sewerage System: Replacement or repair, as warranted, of: (a) about 19 Km of 
sewage collectors; and
(b) about 28 additional Km of sewage collectors; and, including 
in both
(a) and (b) above, the respective construction of alleviation sewers, 
structural rehabilitation of canals, interceptors, flow equalization reservoirs and
other sewer appurtenances, as well as identification and repair of erroneous
connections between sewage and storm water collectors.
 
2.
Water Supply System: Replacement and rehabilitation of: (a) about 150 Km of 
older water distribution pipes, of diameters between
75
mm and
150
mm; and
(b) about 
150
additional Km of
pipes of the same type.
 
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Implementation of the UFW reduction program including: (a) reduction of 
technical losses in bulk and domestic meters;
(b) legalization or disconnection of 
illicit connections;
(c) reduction of physical losses through leak detection and 
repair and through rehabilitation and replacement of old pipes;
(d) implementation of 
a program for dividing the water network into sectors;
(e) evaluation and verification 
of  consumption of large consumers;
(f)
purchase and installation of bulk meters in
apartment buildings;
(g) purchase and installation of about 780,000 domestic meters in 
low-income neighborhoods.
 
2.
Development and execution of a water conservation program aimed at formulating 
guidelines for water demand management, as follows: (a) execution of pilot projects 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, with a demonstration purpose
designed to generate the necessary experience and training required in order to
realize the water-saving potential of the activities and measures included in the said 
pilot projects, such activities to include analysis of water
consumption in the industries and measures geared to increase efficiency in the use of
water by industries and households;
(b)
assessment of the findings and recommendations
resulting from the execution of the pilot projects and determination, by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower, of future testing and research activities required,
if any, and measures for demand reduction, if warranted;
(c) carrying out, if so 
determined, of said future activities under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
formulation and publication of the aforementioned
guidelines.
 
3.
Development and implementation of a training program aimed at improving the 
performance level of the Borrower's employees, as well as implementation of the Total
Quality Management
Program.
Page  14
4.
Acquisition and utilization of laboratory equipment for water quality control, 
hydrological and flow measurement instruments and radio communication equipment.
 
5.
Formulation of a strategy for development of management information systems and 
redesign of the financial information system,
(both on the basis of the findings and
recommendations resulting for the carrying out of Part G. 2 (c) of the Project), and 
to the extent the strategy formulated is
satisfactory to the Bank, acquisition and utilization, in a fashion consistent with
the strategy formulated, of computer hardware and software systems for data
processing.
 
6.
Establishment of a committee pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement, and providing it with the required capacity to deal with all aspects
related to environmental aspects of the Borrower's operation and to perform
environmental analyses, including two permanent full time members
(one environmental
engineer and one environmental consultant) and as many temporary experts as required 
from time to time.
 
Part G:
Technical Assistance and Consulting and Advisory Services 
 
1.
(a)
Completion of detailed engineering, including preparation of final 
designs and bidding documents for: (i) 
mitigating measures under Part H
.1 of the 
Project and civil works included in the following Parts of the Project: A.1, A.2, 
B.2(a), B.3(a), B.4(a), B.5, C.1(a), C.2(a), C.3(a), D.1(a), D.2(a), D.3(a), D.4(a), 
E.1(a), and E.2(a); and (ii) for civil works included in the following Parts of the 
Project:
A.3, B.1, B.2(b), B.3(b), B.4.b), C.1(b), C.2(b), C.3(b), D.1(b), D.2(b), 
D.3(b), D.4(b), E.1(b) and E.2(b).
 
(b)
Supervision of all works referred to: (i) in Part G.1.(a) (i) of the 
Project
(including mitigating measures under Part H.1 of the Project); and (ii) in 
Part G.1.(a) (ii) of the
Project.
2.
Execution of studies on the following matters:
 
(a)
(i) analysis of alternatives available to the Borrower for its 
institutional restructuring aimed at ensuring managerial autonomy and accountability,
reducing political interference and enhancing operational efficiency in delivery of
services, including possible adjustment of its corporate structure and/or changes in 
the Borrower's ownership so as to allow: (A) greater participation of the private 
sector in the Borrower's management and operation and in the Borrower's provision of
water and sewerage services; and
(B)
addressing the requirements for large investments
in development of new water supply sources for Bogota and in providing wastewater
treatment, both within a broader urban development strategy; and
(ii) development of a 
plan of action based on the findings and recommendations of
(i) above;
 
(b)
development of a plan for: (i) alternatives for viable participation of 
the private sector in the rehabilitation of the Plant and the alternative Usaquen
Tunnel
(Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project), including preparation of bidding documents, 
draft contracts and other instruments
required to achieve such participation; and
(ii)
development of the Borrower's
capacity to regulate and monitor said participation, if and when it materializes;
(c)
development of: (i) a management information system with emphasis on the 
financial, commercial and operational areas;
(ii) a commercial plan aimed at 
safeguarding cash flow and improving service; and
(iii)
a strategic planning capacity
and an adequate strategic program; all by utilizing the advisory services of a high
performing foreign water utility under a twinning contract satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
analysis of rate structures and levels related to cost of performing 
services and, on the basis of findings and recommendations of the analysis,
development of a new tariff structure;
(e)
development of adequate schemes for community participation in water and 
sanitation investments in a cost effective form;
Page  15
(f)
development of a geographical information system;
 
(g)
updating of the existing master plan for development of the primary water 
distribution network;
(h)
preparation of a water resources master plan aimed at defining a program 
for development of the water supply sources and production capacity required to
satisfy the demand in the short and long terms, and design of the first stage works;
(i)
preparation of designs for rehabilitation works of the existing sewerage 
system other than works to be carried out under the Project;
(j)
preparation of the sewerage master plan for the sanitary sewerage system 
in the Borrower's jurisdiction;
(k)
preparation of complementary engineering, environmental, institutional 
and cost recovery analysis of the project for hydraulic rehabilitation of the Bogota
River and its tributaries within the District limits aimed at improving flood
protection in the Bogota area;
(l)
design of flood control management systems in the Tunjuelo basin; and
 
(
m
)
such other matters as agreed from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and the Borrower.
 
Part H:
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
 
1.
Implementation of the mitigating measures aimed at minimizing adverse 
environmental impact during the execution of the different works and other activities
related to the carrying out of Parts A through E above, all as recommended in the
final report GC-500-43-039 titled "Environmental Impact Study of Works for Santa Fe 
1", issued by the Borrower on January 1994, which includes a Plan de Reasentamiento 
(Resettlement Plan) that was revised and furnished to the Bank on January 1995.
 
2.
Implementation of a program of specific actions for the resettlement (as per the 
aforesaid Resettlement Plan) of 311 persons, each to be displaced as a result of the 
carrying out of the Project and to be provided with a new home or an adequate
compensation, or both, consisting of
3
subprograms, as follows: (a) in respect of the 
construction of a drainage canal in Salitre drainage basin under Part B.2.(a) of the 
Project,
7
persons living
(as shown in the Resettlement Plan)
in the intersection of
canal
(channel)
Salitre and Carrera
91;
(b) in respect of the construction of a 
storage tank in Jalisco under Part C.2.(a) of the Project, 184 persons living (as 
shown in the Resettlement Plan) in Jalisco; and (c) in respect of the construction of 
a storage tank in Volador under Part C.2.(a) of the Project, 120 persons living (as 
shown in the Resettlement Plan) in Volador.
 
3.
Execution of a program of activities aimed at wetland protection in the Bogota 
area, divided in one initial annual subprogram and a subsequent pluri-annual 
subprogram, as follows: (a) execution of the First Annual Subprogram; (b) execution of 
a study which will enable the Borrower, in consultation with DAMA, to elaborate on and
redefine DAMA's priorities on wetland protection, and to complete the design of the
activities to be carried out under the Subsequent Pluriannual Subprogram; and
(c) 
execution of the Subsequent Pluriannual Subprogram.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31,
2002.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
 
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings.
 
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" 
means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
Page  16
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" 
means the initial period from and including the date of
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
 
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" 
means any date specified in Section
2.06
of this
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" 
means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2
of this Part B.
 
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount  of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
 
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
 
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
 
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings.
 
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" 
means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-
month deposits in
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
(or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
 
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" 
means, for the Interest Period in which each
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn: 
 
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for
six-
month deposits, in respect of the
Bank's outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated by the
Bank to fund single currency loans or
portions thereof made by
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such
Interest
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
 
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" 
means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the
London interbank offered rate for six-
month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate
Page  17
Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
 
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" 
means, for each Disbursed Amount
:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus
(or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such
Disbursed Amount, below
(or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or
other reference rates, for
six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
outstanding
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency
loans
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed
Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest  rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determined that it is in
the interest of the borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this
Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon  not less than six
(6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis
.
The new basis shall become effective
on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to
the Loan.
C.
Repayment
 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May
15
and November
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth
(18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said
paragraph
1, be payable after May,
15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed
Amount.
 
SCHEDULE
4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under in 
accordance with the provisions Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable: 
Page  18
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
 
2.
The following provisions (except for (c) below) shall apply to goods and works 
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Part B.
 
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for works estimated to cost
$10,000,000
or more shall be prequalified in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
2.9
and
2.10
of the Guidelines.
 
(b)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods or works
(including contracts to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan) shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more each.
 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs
2.54
and
2.55
of the Guidelines and Appendix
2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods and works estimated to cost
$250,000
equivalent or less and
$4,000,000
equivalent or less, respectively, per contract and $90,000,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate
(including goods and works financed out of the proceeds of the Floating
Rate Single Currency Loan), in each case, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3
and
3.4
of the Guidelines, as
supplemented by the provisions of Part E of this Schedule
4. 
 
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost
$50,000
equivalent or less per contract, and
$15,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate
(including goods and works financed out of the
proceeds of the
Floating Rate Single Currency Loan), may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures, as determined by the Bank in
consultation with the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
 
3.
Bidding Documents
 
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the preceding
paragraphs of this Part C, and in respect of the civil works and purchase of goods to
be carried out under the Project, both under contracts to be awarded under paragraph
1
of this Part C, the Borrower shall not invite bids for any such contract unless: (a) 
the Borrower and the Bank have agreed on the appropriate set of standard bidding
documents for inviting bids for goods or civil works, as the case may be;
(b) the 
Borrower has adopted the set of documents corresponding to the invitation in question
and has given notice to the Bank of the Borrower's commitment to use of such set with
minimum changes, acceptable to the Bank, as necessary to address specific issues
related to one or more specific bidding invitations; and
(c) any such changes shall be 
introduced only through bid or
contract data sheets, or through special conditions of contract, and not by
introducing changes in the standard wording of the standard bidding documents adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph
(b)
above.
Part D:
Review by Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  19
1
.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract awarded under Part B of this Schedule, and the two
first contracts awarded under Part C.1 of this Schedule in each year (irrespective of 
their estimated
cost), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply provided, however, that the Bank shall have the right to request prior
review with respect to more than the two said contracts if, in respect of any of such
two contracts, the Bank shall have found anything objectionable about the award
procedure applied.
 
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
 
Part E:
Procurement Provisions Concerning National Competitive Bidding
 
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated  equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is
awarded the corresponding contract.
 
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents.
Bid opening shall
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final  date and time of the period
for bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
 
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be
applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bidder, shall be precisely
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, 
the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or
amounts as quoted in corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
 
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written
authorization.
Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
A.
Consultants' services shall be provided under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  20
with  the provisions of the
"
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
 
B.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank;
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
 
SCHEDULE
5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" 
means Categories
(1) through (4) set forth 
in the Table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" 
means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
(other than Part H.3 
thereof)
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" 
means an amount equal to
$6,000,000
to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph
3
(a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$30,000,000.
 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph
4
of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
Page  21
of which replenishment is
requested
.
On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section
5.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.02
of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project other than Part H.3 thereof, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such  notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
Page  22
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
