CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1437 IND
Project Agreement
(Third BAPINDO Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Dated June 6, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (hereinafter called BAPINDO), a State
Development Bank established and operating under the laws of
Republic of Indonesia.
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BAPINDO agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BAPINDO, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
BAPINDO on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BAPINDO shall carry out the Project described
in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the BAPINDO Act and Policy Statement.
Section 2.02. BAPINDO shall cause the proceeds of the Loan to
be applied exclusively to expenditures on Investment Projects in
respect of which amounts have been withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, the
Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, BAPINDO shall submit Investment
Projects to tho Bank for approval or "or authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval BAPINDO shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan


﻿-4-
Agreement, (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan
or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan or of repayment by BAPINDO of the amount of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be used for the investment, and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by BAPINDO for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by
the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more


﻿- 5 -
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(e) BAPINDO shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by BAPINDO
in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(f) Except as the Bank and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be submitted to
the Bank on or before September 30, 1979.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BAPINDO
shall not make any sub-loan in an amount exceeding the equivalent
of $3,000,000 or in an amount which would exceed such limit when
added to the amount of all other sub-loans made for the same
Investment Project out of the proceeds of the Loan, Credit 310 IND
or of Loan 1054 IND.
Section 2.05. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BAPINDO shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. (a) BAPINDO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BAPINDO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by BAPINDO of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Man.2gement and Operations of BAPINDO
Section 3.01. (a) BAPINDO undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree% any sub-loan or investment will be made
on terms whereby BAPINDO shall obtain, by written contract with
the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and BAPINDO,
including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right
of BAPINDO to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due riligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require thnt (1) the goods and. services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the


﻿- 8 -
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Bank or BAPINDO shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.
(b) BAPINDO shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of, the Borrower, the Bank and BAPINDO, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.02. BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Project, the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and
investments.
Section 3.03. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put
at the disposal of BAPINDO by the Borrower or its agencies or
others for relending, investment or management. BAPINDO shall
promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.04. If BAPINDO establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, BAPINDO shall cause such subsidiary to observe and
perform the obligations of BAPINDO hereunder to the extent to
which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto,
as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank and BAPINDO shall otherwise
agree, BAPINDO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.06. BAPINDO shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Bank.
Section 3.07. BAPINDO shall take all steps necessary to
implement Part B of the Program of Action dated April 26, 1977
agreed upon among the Borrower, BAPINDO and the Bank.
Section 3.08. In order co improve the position of BAPINDO's
arrears and to control its rising administrative costs, BAPINDO
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a comprehensive plan
acceptable to the Bank, and shall promptly take all steps
necessary to implement such plan.
Section 3.09. In order to strengthen its operations and
research activities, BAPINDO shall (except as the Bank may
otherwise agree) employ three experts, one each in development
banking, economic research and market analysis, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BAPINDO shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of BAPINDO.
Section 4.02. BAPINDO shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BAP'NDO and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.04. BAPINDO shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BAPINDO which,
in the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect BAPINDO's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and BAPINDO, BAPINDO shall not incur or permit any
subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times
the consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its
subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by BAPINDO or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement; and (ii) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) on deposits as
and when they are received.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rupiah debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exzhange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) "consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of BAPINDO and subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by BAPINDO to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to BAPINDO or to any other subsidiary.
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of BAPINDO and of all its
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of BAPINDO in any subsidiary or of any
subsidiary in BAPINDO or any other subsidiary.


﻿- 14 -
Section 4.06. BAPINDO shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against isk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including Rupiah) used in its operations.
Section 4.07. The Bank and BAPINDO shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO and its subsidiaries, and BAPINDO
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO and subsidiaries.
Section 4.08. BAPINDO shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BAPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Bank shall promptly notify BAPINDO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BAPINDO:
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
P.O. Box 140
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
BAPINDO                        BPINKB
Jakarta                        0144214


﻿- 17 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BAPINDO may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing.
Section 6.03. BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BAPINDO, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BAPINDO pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused .his
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative


