CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1437 IND
Loan Agreement
(Third BAPINDO Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BAPINDO" means Bank Pembangunan Indonesia;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and BAPINDO, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BAPINDO
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a
sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BAPINDO proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be ca- .ied out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(h) "Rupiah" and "Rp." mean the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(j) "BAPINDO Act" means the Undang-Undang No. 21 PRP of
1960, as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 PRP of 1962 and Presidential
Decree No. 2 of 1966 and as further amended from time to time;


﻿-4-
(k) "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and
investment policy adopted by the Board of Managing Diretors, and
approved by the Supervisory Board of BAPINDO on May 19, 1972, as
amended to the date of this Agreeement;
(1) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BAPINDO or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BAPINDO or by BAPINDO and one or more of its
subsidiaries;
(m) "Credit 310 IND" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project) dated June 7, 1972, between
the Borrower and the Association;
(n) "Loan 1054 IND" means the Loan Agreement (Development
Finance Company Project) dated November 20, 1974, between the
Borrower and the Bank; and
(o) "PUPN" means Panitya Urusan Piutang Negara, a Committee
established by Law No. 49 of the year 1960 of the Borrower for the
purpose of enforcing remedies in respect of accounts receivable on
behalf of the Borrower and agencies of the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan igreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. BAPINDO is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General, Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree and
subject as set forth hereinafter and in Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement, BAPINDO shall, acting as representative of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, be entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account in respect c the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for, (i) the Investment
Project in respect of which withdrawal is requested, (A) 100% of
foreign currency expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) for goods procured, or services supplied from,
outside the territories of the Borrower, (B) the equivalent of
sixty per cent (60%) of such amounts as shall have been expended
for machinery and equipment (other than vehicles) procured in the
territories of the Borrower, which percentage represents the


﻿-6-
estimated foreign exchange component of such machinery and
equipment and (C) the equivalent of forty per cent (4(.X) of such
amounts as shall have been expended for vehicles procured in the
territories of the Borrower and civil works, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign exchange component of such
vehicles and works; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of an Investment Project unless the sub-loan or
investment for such Investment Project shall have been approved by
the Bank, or the sub-loan for such Investment Project shall be a
free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account; and (ii) the employment of
experts referred to in Section 3.09 of the Project Agreement, 100%
of expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
provided, however, that withdrawals for such expenditures shall
not exceed the equivalent of $240,000.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $1,000,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or Credit
310 IND or Loan 1054 IND for such Investment Project or (ii)
$10,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-
loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
(c) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and BAPINDO shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of
expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an
investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the
date of this Agreement or, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan,
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (c) of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BAPINDO of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty hundredths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-8-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amorLization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be
amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:
(i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and The schedules
of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments referred to in
Section 2.03 (d) of the Project Agreement, which have been
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under
Section 2.03 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account any
cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and
any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on
June 15 and December 15 in each year. Such amendments of said
Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on
prepayments and redemption, if necessary.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
BAPINDO in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by BAPlNDO, the Borrower shall


﻿-9-
promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next
following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or investment or
part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case
of an investment, pro rata, to the maturity or maturities of
the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such
investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BAPINDO
in financing such productive facilities and resources in the
territories of the Borrower as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of (i) specific development projects through loans to and
investments in enterprises in the territories of the Borrower, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of BAPINDO; and (ii)
utilization of services of experts by BAPINDO.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to BAPINDO under a subsidiary loan agreeement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause BAPINDO to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services,
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BAPINDO to
perform such obligations, and shall not take, or permit any of its
political subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities
or any agency or instrumentality of any political subdivision to
take any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 4.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for


﻿- 12 -
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created t..n assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any


﻿- 13 -
such subdivision, !.ncluding gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to (i) relieve BAPINDO of all financial
liability pertaining to such projects as are financed by BAPINDO
at the Borrower's behest, (ii) enable all state enterprises to
make payments of principal and interest in respect of such arrears
on borrowings from BAPINDO as are overdue in excess of three
months, as at the date of this Agreement, and (iii) compensate
BAPINDO not later than March 31, 1978, or such other date as the
Bank may agree, for its losses in respect of financing of loans
for raw cotton.
Section 4.04. For the purpose of accelerating remedial
measures available to BAPINDO in respect of its delinqient
accounts, the Borrower shall (i) cause to be undertaken a review
of the collection procedures of said accounts through PUPN, (ii)
furnish to the Bank the findings of said review for the Bank's
comments, (iii) in order to achieve the aforesaid objective,
implement by December 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank may
agree, the recommendations based on findings of said review, and


﻿-14 -
(iv) without limitation to the foregoing provisions of this
Section, issue a ministerial decree to enable PUPN to proceed
promptly with the enforcement of deliquent accounts reported by
BAPINDO to PUPN without waiting for the expiry of the final
maturity date of the loan under which a default has occurred.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of
the President and the Managing Directors of BAPINDO are at all
times filled by qualified and experienced persons and that, before
any appointment is made to any such position, the Bank is informed
of the name, qualifications and experience of the person being
considered for such appointment and is given a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of
such person.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAPINDO
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance
with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity
as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or any
security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) the BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the Bank,
to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project
or the operations or financial condition of BAPINDO or the
efficiency of BAPINDO's management or personnel;
(c) BAPINDO shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
BAPINDO or by others whereby any of the property of BAPINDO shall
or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BAPINDO or for the suspension of all or part of BAPINDO's
operations;


﻿- 16 -
(e) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BAPINDO under the Project Agreement;
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BAPINDO, if such creation, acquisi-
tion or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
BAPINDO's business or BAPINDO's financial situation or the effi-
ciency of BAPINDO's management and personnel or the carrying out
of the Project;
(g) a default shall have occurred under Credit 310 IND or
under Loan 1054 IND other thav in respect of the payment of the
principal or any other payment required thereunder; and
(h) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BAPINDO will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (e) or paragraph (f)
of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and
(g) of Section 5.01 shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional condition, to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and BAPINDO, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) the Borrower has made arrangements, including a partial
payment of Rp. 3.0 billion to BAPINDO in respect of raw cotton
losses, referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower has, pursuant to the provisions of Section
4.04 of this Agreement, furnished to the Bank the review of PUPN's
collection procedures, and has issued the ministerial decree
referred therein; and
(e) the Bank has received the plan to be prepared by BAPINDO
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.08 of the Project
Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAPINDO and
is legally binding upon BAPINDO in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and BAPINDO, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and BAPINDO in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 6, 1977 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-19 -
,TICLE VII
!iscellaneous
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                          DEPKEU JKT 44319
Jakarta                         DITJMON JKT 46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunta duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Is/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1980                                 200,000
June 15, 1981                                     400,000
December 15, 1981                                 800,000
June 15, 1982                                   1,100,000
December 15, 1982                               1,300,000
June 15, 1983                                   1,600,000
December 15, 1983                               2,100,000
June 15, 1984                                   2,100,000
December 15, 1984                               2,100,000
June 15, 1985                                   2,100,000
December 15, 1985                               2,100,000
June 15, 1986                                   2,000,000
December 15, 1986                               2,000,000
June 15, 1987                                   2,000,000
December 15, 1987                               2,000,000
June 15, 1988                                   1,700,000
December 15, 1988                               1,700,000
June 15, 1989                                   1,500,000
December 15, 1989                               1,500,000
June 15, 1990                                   1 300,000
December 15, 1990                               1,300,000
June 15, 1991                                   1,100,000
December 15, 1991                               1,000,000
June 15, 1992                                     900,000
December 15, 1992                                 900,000
June 15, 1993                                     800,000
December 15, 1993                                 800,000
June 15, 1994                                     700,000
December 15, 1994                                 700,000
June 15, 1995                                     200,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                             6.40%
More than fourteen years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             7.30%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                             8.20%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (f) of Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the


﻿24~ -
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


