Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3180-1-MAG
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending 
Project Agreement
(Third Social Fund Project)
Cyclone Rehabilitation Activities
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated July 21, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3180-1-MAG
(Amendment) 
AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2000 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT 
(FID).
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement of even 
date herewith between Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, 
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty four million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Amending Agreement, but only on condition that FID agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS FID, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Amending Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Amending Project Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. The following amendments shall be made in Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement: 
(A)
Part C of Section I is amended to read as follows:
“Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than US$120,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent for goods may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Office supplies and furniture estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $25,300,000 
required for Sub-projects may be procured as specified in paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines in accordance with provisions of the Procedures Manuals of FID 
acceptable to the Association, and as may be amended from time to time with the 
prior approval of the Association: (1) the procedures manual dated May 19, 2000 
(Projets Communautaires) for the community sub-projects implemented by the 
communities themselves; (2) the procedures manual dated November 1, 1999 
(Infrastructures de Base) for the community sub-projects implemented by the FID 
under delegated contract management;  and (3) the procedures manual dated 
December 1996 (Appui au Secteur Privé) for the training of FIDs partners.”
(B)
Paragraph 2, Part D in Section I shall be amended to read as 
follows:
“2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply."
(C)
A new paragraph 4 to read as follows is added in Part C of Section 
II:
“4.
Consultants for Sub-projects
Consultants for Sub-projects contracted by communities not exceeding 
$10,000 per contract, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000, may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.19 of the Guidelines 
and in accordance with modalities and procedures which are detailed in the 
Procedures Manuals of FID acceptable to the Association, and as may be amended 
from time to time with the prior approval of the Association: (i) the procedures 
manual dated May 19, 2000 (Projets Communautaires) for the community 
sub-projects implemented by the communities themselves; (ii) the procedures 
manual dated November 1, 1999 (Infrastructures de Base) for the community 
sub-projects implemented by the FID under delegated contract management; and 
(iii) the procedures manual dated December 1996 (Appui au Secteur Privé) for the 
training of FIDs partners.” 
Section 1. 02. This Amending Project Agreement shall come into force and 
effect on the date upon which the Amending Agreement shall become effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
Page  3
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo-Razafy
Authorized Representative
