Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3180 MAG
Project Agreement
(Third Social Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated April 6, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3180 MAG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT (FID).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that FID agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
(B) 
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and FID, the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to FID on the terms and conditions set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS FID, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FID declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and FID shall otherwise agree, FID shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  FID shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04.  FID shall duly perform all its obligations under the Convention 
and the Procedures' Manual. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, FID shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Convention or the Procedures' Manual, 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.  (a) FID shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and the Procedures' Manual, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
FID shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FID of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and the Procedures' Manual.
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, FID shall 
participate fully in the reviews referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to the Borrower and 
the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail 
as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and 
status of the Project; and (b) following each such review, act promptly and diligently 
in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of FID
Section 3.01.  (a) FID shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
(b)
FID shall ensure that the position of Director General as well as the six 
Page  3
positions of Regional Directors, shall be kept filled at all times by persons, whose 
qualifications and experience shall have been communicated to the Association and 
found to be acceptable. 
Section 3.02.  FID shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. FID shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) FID shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
FID shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including those for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
have its administrative, technical and managerial performance for 
each fiscal 
year audited by said auditors, having regard to the 
provisions of its statutes 
and by-laws, and of this Agreement, the 
Convention and the Procedures' Manual;  
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
FID thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or 
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify FID of this event.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  4
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For FID:
Fonds d'Intervention pour le Développement
B.P. 8231
Lot: II J 164
Ambodivoanjo
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FID, or by FID 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or such other person or persons as 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall designate in writing, and FID shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A, (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
2.
In paragraph 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank  member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $30,000 but less than $100,000 equivalent 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount no to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Office supplies and furniture estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement Small Works
Works (other than rural roads) for sub-projects estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or less per contract and works for rural road sub-projects estimated to 
cost $120,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
Page  6
$5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.
4.
Works estimated to cost $7,500 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $2,500,000 million equivalent in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump 
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract. 
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000 required for 
Sub-projects may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of 
the Guidelines and modalities and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
Page  7
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least Cost Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of least cost selection 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and technical audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
financial and technical audits and for each contract estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, and for all contracts 
for the employment of FID directors and heads of units, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
FID shall operate under the overall control of a Board of Directors consisting 
Page  8
of one representative of the Prime Minister's Office, who shall be the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors, three other representatives appointed by NGOs, the donor community 
and civic organizations, respectively, as well as two other representatives elected by 
members of FID.
2.
(a)
The Board of Directors shall appoint an Director General, who shall, 
subject to the overall control of the Board of Directors, be responsible for the 
day-to-day management of activities under the Project.
(b) 
Regional Directors shall be responsible for the promotion, appraisal and 
supervision of Sub-projects in their respective provinces. 
3.
(a) 
Applications for Grants to finance Sub-projects shall be prepared by 
potential beneficiaries, and submitted to the respective Regional Directors, who shall 
refer them to a Regional Advisory Committee, for its recommendations in accordance 
with the provisions of the Procedures’ Manual.
(b)
Subject to the recommendations of the Regional Advisory Committee, and to 
approval guidelines prescribed in the Procedures' Manual, applications for Grants 
shall be approved by the Board of Directors or, in appropriate cases, by the Director 
General or the Regional Directors, as the case may be.
