Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3180-1-MAG
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Social Fund Project)
Cyclone Rehabilitation Activities
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3180-1-MAG
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2000 between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Third Social Fund Project Credit 3180 MAG)) dated 
April 6, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing 
support during the execution of the Third Social Fund Project, as described in 
Recital of the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further 
additional assistance in the support of the Project by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,700,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
by deleting the "and” at the end of Subsection (a), substituting “; and” for “.” 
at the end of Subsection (b) and adding a new Subsection (c) as follows: 
“(c) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the 
Development Credit 
Agreement (Third Social Fund Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated April 6, 1999”.
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty four 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,400,000) (the 
Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,700,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,700,000) (the Additional Financing).”
Section 1.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: “; provided however that the 
commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Amending Agreement.”
Section 1.05.  Section 2.07 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement shall 
be amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.07. (a) For the purpose of: (A) the Initial Financing, 
subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2009, and ending December 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
December 15, 2018, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount; and  (B) the Additional Financing, the Borrower shall repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2010, and ending June 15, 
2040.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 
15, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.”
Section 1.06. Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby 
revised as indicated in the Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.07.  Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
amended to read as indicated in the Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until:
(a)
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished 
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
Page  3
governmental action; and
(b)
the Convention between the Borrower and FID has been amended in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 
2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, 
this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section.  If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo-Razafy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
ANNEX 1 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
   Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1.
Works and goods
   19,470,000
90%
Page  4
for Sub-projects
2.
Consultancy services 
      890,000
100% of 
foreign
and training under
expenditures 
and
Sub-projects 
90 of local
expenditures
3.
Technical assistance,
      530,000
100% of 
foreign
audits and training
expenditures 
and
90% of local
expenditures
4.
Equipment, 
      475,000
100% of 
foreign
vehicles, furniture 
expenditures and
and materials 
90% of local
expenditures
5.
Operating costs 
    1,725,000
90%
6.
Unallocated
    1,310,000 
TOTAL
   24,400,000
ANNEX 2 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to alleviate poverty and support 
community development through provision of financial resources to support 
Sub-projects of benefit to the communities.
The Project consists of the following activities, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
1.
Provision of financial resources to FID to finance Sub-projects as follows 
in all six of the provinces of the Borrower:
(a)
construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, including 
schools, health centers, water supply, small irrigation perimeters, rural roads, 
markets, small bridges, as well as activities relating to reforestation and 
protection of the environment; and
(b)
private sector support programs, including training programs for 
small enterprises and consulting firms, and development of grassroots community 
groups and decentralization collectivities, and local NGOs.
2.
Provision of financial resources for the rehabilitation or construction of 
demand driven community infrastructure sub-projects in the areas affected by 
cyclones in the year 2000, including technical advisory services and training to 
beneficiary associations, communes, service providers, NGOs, and local firms and 
companies.  
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
Page  5
