                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25649

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-31800 IDA-31801)

                                                  ON A

                              CREDIT AND A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.7 AND SDR 13.7
                         (US$15 MILLION AND $18 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                                 FOR A

                                   THIRD SOCIAL FUND PROJECT




                                           December 18, 2003




Human Development III
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                             Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
                               1,000 FMG = US$ 0.15
                                  US$ 1.00 = 6370 FMG

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD        Community Driven Development
CRESAN     Health Sector Improvement Project (Credit Santé)
CRESED     Education Sector Reinforcement Project (Credit Education)
EU         European Union
FID        Social Development Fund (Fonds d'intervention pour le développement)
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEC        Information, Education, Communication
IDA        International Development Agency
MIS        Management Information System
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
SECALINE   Community Nutrition Project

                            Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                          Country Director    Hafez Ghanem
                           Sector Manager     Laura Frigenti
                         Task Team Leader     Nadine Poupart

                                       MADAGASCAR
                                   THIRD SOCIAL FUND


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower's final Project Evaluation                                     25
Annex 9. Beneficiary Comments                                                    32

Project ID: P064305                                                  Project Name: SOCIAL FUND III
Team Leader: Nadine T. Poupart                                       TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOCIAL FUND III                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-31800; IDA-31801
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (24%); Water supply (20%); General education
                            sector (20%); General transportation sector (20%); Central
                            government administration (16%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social risk reduction (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S);
                            Small and medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/09/1998                                     Effective: 06/28/1999                09/08/1999
     Appraisal: 01/15/1998                                         MTR: 07/03/2000                  07/03/2000
      Approval: 03/23/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Madagascar/FID (Fonds d'Intervention pour le Développement/Social
                                           Development Fund)/FID
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader at ICR:             Nadine Poupart                                 Eileen Murray
ICR Primary Author:             Nadine T. Poupart; Frank-Borge
                                Wietske; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project was considered a "bridge" operation between the then-ongoing Second Social Fund (Cr.
2778-MAG, US$42.20 million ) and a larger project (Community Development Project, Cr. 3498 MAG,
US$110.0 million) which was negotiated two years after the approval of the Third Social Fund Credit. The
project was to be implemented over a three-year period. The development objectives and key performance
indicators were similar to those of the Second Social Fund.

The Third Social Fund had the following four objectives: (i) improved access of poor rural population to
social and economic infrastructure; (ii) on a pilot basis, empowerment of poor rural communities and/or
communes to identify, organize, manage funds and implement sub-projects responsive to community needs
in order to achieve decentralized social and economic development; (iii) employment creation; and (iv)
increased capacity of private sector, local small contractors and consultants, artisans, skilled labor, and
NGOs.

The objectives were clearly stated. They continued to be important to the needs of the Borrower given that
the majority of poor people in rural areas lacked proper access to social infrastructure. Poverty remained
severe with seven out of ten Malagasy being poor. Over 85 percent of the poor live in rural areas, where
poverty is also deeper. Over the past three decades, the country's real per capita income has fallen by
almost 50 percent. The country has also experienced declines in education, nutrition and life expectancy,
with social indicators at or below the unsatisfactory averages for sub-Saharan Africa.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Madagascar Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by
the Board on February 18, 1997. The main objectives of the CAS were poverty reduction through high
rates of broad-based economic growth, and human capital development (focused on primary education,
basic health care and rural infrastructure). To ensure that the poor would indeed be better off, the CAS
proposed activities that would improve rural transport, education and health, including nutrition and access
to clean water. A key focus of the CAS was also to foster empowerment of local communities to tackle
their development challenges. The project addressed most of those objectives. It was one of the main
instruments which was expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction in rural areas by
empowering beneficiaries to become key actors in the rural development process.

The objectives were realistic in scale and scope, because the project design took into account both the
absorptive capacity of the country and the executing capacity of the implementing agency. The project was
not very demanding for the Borrower since it was a continuation of two preceding social fund projects. In
addition, FID (Fonds d'intervention pour le développement), the autonomous implementing agency was
already in place and had attained a good level of executing capacity by the time this project became
effective. Further, FID could take advantage of its autonomy for: (i) undertaking independent recruitment
of personnel; (ii) enforcing certain minimum standards of implementation; (iii) adhering to its timetable;
and (iv) being flexible in procurement, without going through Central Procurement Board. The project
design was fairly straight forward, and the activities and their projected execution were clearly defined.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There was no change in the project's original objectives.

Madagascar was stricken by a series of cyclones that damaged basic infrastructure during January ­to
March 2000. More than one million inhabitants were affected, resulting in over 200 people dead and



                                                      - 2 -

almost 400,000 people in need of emergency aid assistance. Physical impacts included flood damage to
roads and irrigation systems, and extensive damage to buildings, including schools and health centers.
Many people were isolated due to road damage and flooding from heavy rains. In the social sectors, 1727
primary schools, 173 secondary schools, 82 primary health centers and 86 district health centers were
damaged or destroyed. Total public infrastructure and asset damages were estimated at US$61 million.

As part of the multi-pronged approach to assist Madagascar in its rehabilitation efforts, in July 2000, the
Board approved a Supplemental Credit of US$18 million, more than doubling the original credit amount
(US$15 million). The objective of the Supplemental Credit was to assist in the post-cyclone reconstruction
efforts, targeting communities in the areas stricken by the three cyclones. However, there was no change in
the project's original objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following three components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation/construction of Communal Infrastructure (Total estimated cost:
US$15.0 million) Communal infrastructure activities were designed to complement sectoral development
strategies. Sub-projects to be financed under this component were the rehabilitation and/or construction of
essential community services (primary schools, community water supply and health posts), and the
rehabilitation and/or construction of rural roads, bridges, markets, and small-scale irrigation systems.
Labor intensive works were to be preferred whenever proven as technically and economically efficient.

It was anticipated that the project would finance a total of 350 infrastructure sub-projects: 130 schools, 30
community water supply schemes, 40 health centers, 35 micro irrigated perimeters, 40 markets, 50 feeder
roads, and 25 bridges and other transport infrastructure sub-projects. Those figures were indicative only
given the demand-driven nature of the FID.

Component 2: Capacity building (Total estimated cost: US$0.5 million). The objective of this
component was to promote an increased participation of beneficiaries in the development of communal
infrastructure, and to ensure better quality and maintenance of this infrastructure. The capacity building
sub-projects also aimed to assist FID's partners (communes, rural communities, local associations, NGOs,
small contractors and consultants) to improve their effectiveness in identifying, preparing and implementing
sub-projects.

For local contractors and consultants, the training was both theoretical and practical, dealing with the use
of labor-intensive techniques, preparation of cost estimates, bidding, and management and supervision of
works. It also covered the management of the firms themselves. For rural communities, local associations
and communes, the training was to cover project preparation, evaluation, selection of consultants,
procurement, management of works and contract administration, simplified accounting, and the monitoring
of some basic implementation indicators.

The project was expected to finance about 30 capacity building sub-projects benefiting about 300 rural
communities and communes, 150 micro-enterprises, 75 consultants, 50 artisans and 20 NGOs.

Component 3: FID management and Operations (Total estimated cost: US$2.2 million). This
component included equipment purchases, operating costs, staff training, audits and studies.

The implementing agency, FID, had already proven capacity to achieve poverty alleviation and
development objectives under the Community Nutrition project ­ SECALINE (Credit 2474-MAG), and the



                                                      - 3 -

Second Social Fund (Credit 27780-MAG) Projects. In addition, FID had experience and capacity
necessary to develop community infrastructure, income-generating sub-projects and training sub-projects,
and had sufficient administrative and financial capacity for successful implementation.

The project design incorporated lessons learned from the FID (and on-going projects in Madagascar) such
as (i) a qualified and decently-paid staff; (ii) the existence of well defined and transparent management and
accounting procedures; and (iii) regular and frequent financial, managerial and technical audits. The design
also reflected the favourable political environment. There was strong support from high-level government
officials who did not interfere with the project's day-to-day management. There was also a consensus as to
the goals and the independence of the social fund.

3.4 Revised Components:
The supplemental credit did not trigger a change in project components. FID was to continue its normal
activities under the original credit balance however targeting communities in areas stricken by the three
cyclones. Close to 50 percent of the 111 administrative districts were affected: between nine and 20 were
classified by the Government as very affected, and 33 more had been affected by wind, rain and flooding. A
rapid survey of potential beneficiaries took place in May 2000 in the cyclone-damaged regions, and the
most frequent priority of villagers was cited as reconstruction of primary schools, followed by health
centres, rural roads, and secondary schools. To respond to this demand, it was estimated at appraisal that
the supplemental credit would finance the construction and rehabilitation of more schools (155), water
supply schemes (35), health centers (45), rural roads (360 km), markets (45), and irrigated land (2,500
hectares).

With the original and supplemental credits, the total IDA contribution to the project was US$33 million for
a total project cost of US$41.7 million broken down by component as follows:

         Component 1: Rehabilitation/construction of community infrastructure: US$35 million
         Component 2: Capacity building activities: US$1.5 million
         Component 3: FID management and operations: US$5.2 million

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group. Nevertheless, the
ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived. As mentioned earlier,
the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government priorities, and met the critical
needs of the country.

Project Concept, Objectives and Approach. The project was well prepared. An alternative project design
was considered, which consisted of working directly with line ministries. However, this alternative was
rejected because of FID's comparative advantage in directly reaching out to the population, and in giving
the poor an opportunity to voice their opinions on priority community development activities. FID had also
been able to identify a niche for itself by becoming complementary to efforts of line ministries and other
IDA and donor-financed projects.

As part of project preparation, there was a series of meetings with line ministries, and other donors to
clearly establish the areas where FID interventions were needed. Extensive stakeholder consultations were
conducted with beneficiaries/community groups, intermediary NGOs, local government, local consulting
firms, and local contractors, and this participatory process in project preparation substantially contributed
to the project design. In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from other projects in the social
sector in Madagascar were considered and incorporated into the project design. However, there was no



                                                        - 4 -

cost-benefit analysis performed during preparation although FID had been operating since 1993 and data
had been collected earlier.

Preparation of the initial Credit took only two months. The Second Social Fund was disbursing quicker
than anticipated and therefore the team started preparing a supplemental credit to the project. During
preparation, however, Bank management decided to convert the supplemental credit into a stand-alone
operation. This was justified by the nature of the activities to be financed (no cost over-run due to
exceptional circumstances beyond the borrower's control). Given that the project was a "bridge" operation
to a larger Community Development Project that would take more time to prepare, the design was simple.
Yet, the project included a small pilot to introduce procurement responsibilities to communities/communes
for certain types of sub-projects. This pilot, which was scaled up under the follow-up project, helped
prepare the way for a much larger decentralization to local governments.

Readiness for implementation. The project was fully ready for implementation as the implementing agency,
FID, already existed and was operational. Since the project was for the most part a continuation of
activities that were carried out satisfactorily under the Second Social Fund, transition to the new project
was smooth, and there was no financing gap.

Other Donor Financing. Social funds often catalyze donor assistance and coordination. However since
the establishment of the Madagascar social fund, the Bank has not fully attempted to engage other donors
in financing the program. Given the time constraints in preparing the project, the Bank and Government
teams deemed that donor coordination was too time-consuming, with few additional benefits. However,
FID has still not mobilized support from other donors. This may have contributed to the overall
fragmentation of community driven development (CDD) initiatives that can be observed in Madagascar
today.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory: The overall achievement of the project objectives is satisfactory. This rating is based on FID
data and beneficiary assessments, which suggest that outcomes and outputs came close to or surpassed
their initial targets. The output data justifies FID's reputation as one of the fastest and most effective
investment mechanisms in Madagascar (see section on outputs). It is more difficult to assess FID's
interventions in terms of impacts given the lack of reliable baseline data and comparison group data (see
below, section on M&E).

Objective 1: Creation of communal infrastructure: Outcome data were collected one year after completion
for some sub-projects (i.e. about two thirds of sub-projects in health, education and water, and about one
third or less in the case of irrigation schemes, markets and rural roads). Estimated actual outcomes
therefore often do not correspond to initial outcome goals as these were set for the totality of sub-projects
(see table 1, annex 1). However, FID analysed pre- and post-project outcomes for sub-projects for which
data was available. The analysis was carried out for six types of infrastructure projects in all six provinces,
using MIS data from the year 2001. In this sample, the total number of students enrolled in beneficiary
schools increased from 10,499 before to 21,623 after interventions of the Third Social Fund. The average
rate of exam success in participant primary schools was higher after project interventions (59.21 percent)
than before (35.81 percent); as was that for participant secondary schools (49.75 percent after and 31.16
percent before). For beneficiary health posts, the total number of consultations per year was higher after the
Third Social Fund interventions (79,848) than before (47,482), as was the total number of children



                                                       - 5 -

vaccinated (8,588 before and 20,059 after). There were more users after well projects (49,590) than before
(36,970). For irrigation projects, the production of rice was higher after project interventions (4,489 tons
per year) than before (1,144 tons per year); more beneficiaries used the irrigation systems afterward (4,202
versus 3,846 before); and there were more yields per year after (two as compared to one before). Lastly,
the total number of vendors in markets installed was higher after the Third Social Fund market projects
(3,880) than before (2,338).

Objective 2:Local capacity building: The project also fulfilled this second objective. Under the pilot, the
project transferred procurement responsibilities to local associations and communities for sub-projects
below US$7,500. During implementation, the project assisted community associations in dealing with
companies and contractors. After completion of the operations, communities proved capable of obtaining
reasonable prices for the infrastructure and of assuring reasonable technical quality. Moreover, because
communities selected the sub-projects themselves and contributed to these projects, a sense of ownership
has been created in the community and a willingness to maintain the infrastructure has been generated.

Objective 3: Employment generation: Regarding employment generation, FID generated 2,423,722 person
days of temporary employment, well below its initial target of 3,500,000 person days. However, this
underperformance has to be interpreted as the result of a trade-off with conflicting FID objectives, such as
meeting higher technical standards that were introduced during the course of implementation that made it
necessary to employ more qualified labour. (i.e. in the case of school buildings). The overall number of jobs
created thus declined gradually over the years (reaching a low of 482,722 person days created in 2001)
while it remained stable in other areas that continued to rely on labour-intensive techniques (i.e. road
rehabilitation projects).

Objective 4:Increased private sector capacities: Finally, the project succeeded in building managerial and
executing skills of local contractors and other private sector partners. When FID was established in 1995,
almost no construction firms were available to work in rural areas. Under the Third Social Fund, about 100
local engineering consulting firms undertook feasibility studies on approved sub-project requests and drew
up execution plans and schedules, and 349 local enterprises implemented the works on-site. Training given
to these local firms and enterprises has strengthened their competence on financial management,
accounting, procurement, and administration and has enabled them to assume higher responsibilities in their
respective functions. It has provided them with the confidence and experience to undertake such projects in
the future, and to extend their capacity to other regions. Collaboration with the project also facilitated the
creation of start-up capital of many of these firms.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Rehabilitation/construction of Communal Infrastructure (rated S). Regarding outputs,
FID succeeded in meeting most of its December 2001 objectives. For schools, 337 classrooms were
constructed, slightly below the target number of 358; 34 classrooms were rehabilitated, surpassing the
target of 32; and the total surface area of buildings constructed was 21,623 square meters, surpassing the
21,256 square meter target. For health centers, the 266 rooms constructed were somewhat fewer than the
target level of 292, and the 6,726.9 square meter total surface area was also somewhat below the target
level of 7,782.26 square meters. The 175 well projects exceeded the 165 target, as did the total hectares
irrigated (2,339 hectares realized with 2,174 as target). The road projects were slightly below target levels:
144.38 kilometers (km) with an objective of 150.5 km. Lastly, the market projects surpassed the target with
97 buildings of different types constructed (goal of 85), however the total surface area of construction was
6,726 square meters, somewhat below the goal of 7,153.4 square meters.

Component 2: Capacity building (rated S). The project financed 565 capacity building sub-projects for



                                                      - 6 -

rural communities, local associations, communes, local contractors, consultants, artisans and NGOs.
Training was given under this component, to 550 rural communities and communes, 92 micro-enterprises,
115 engineering consulting firms consultants, and 257 NGOs.

Component 3: FID management and Operations (rated S). This component financed the purchase of
equipment, materials and supplies for FID. Operating costs of the project were maintained at a reasonable
level of around ten percent of the total program cost. In addition, it also financed two beneficiary
assessments, one technical audit, and three financial audits. Recommendations of the beneficiary
assessments have proven useful for strengthening the capacity of members of the sub-project cells,
communes, and other partners, and the technical audit has helped improve the quality of infrastructure, and
rectify certain technical defects in the completed civil works. Likewise, the financial audits have helped in
improving and strengthening internal control systems, such as procurement procedures, management
procedures, and accounting.

Furthermore, this component financed a study tour of FID staff to the Malawi social fund and training of
FID staff on various topics, such as procurement, participative approaches and the environmental impact of
sub-projects, technological training, and Information-Education-Communication (IEC), all of which
contributed to efficient management of the FID.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project Appraisal Document for the follow-up Community Development Project included a review of
unit costs, based on data from the Second Social Fund. There are no reasons to believe that the analysis is
not pertinent for the Third Social Fund. The review shows that the overall cost of new construction funded
under the Second Social Fund was not significantly different than other projects when differences in
definition of costs and measurement error are taken into account. The costs of rehabilitation are
systematically below those of other donors, but differences in the extent of rehabilitation interfere with the
comparison of costs.

The cost of new construction of schools under the earlier Credit is below that of the European Community
but above that of the Bank's Education Sector Development project (CRESED II). The estimate of the
social fund's costs includes supervision by engineering consultants while the estimates for most other
projects do not include this cost. This explains part of the difference in costs compared to the CRESED II.
Most of the difference in costs is explained by the architectural design of schools. Schools built by the FID
use less local materials and more concrete. In addition, from 1999 onwards FID used strict technical
standards to ensure resistance of school buildings to cyclones (using more steel components and cement).
As a result the CRESED II schools are cheaper and easier to repair but are less resistant to cyclones and
shorter-lived than the social fund schools.

The cost of new construction of health centers is somewhat above that of the European Community and of
the Ministry of Health's planning assumption. Most or all of this difference is probably explained by the
inclusion of supervision costs in the estimates for the social fund.




                                                      - 7 -

Source : Project Appraisal Document - Community Development Project - March 23, 2001

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. The impact on capacities, both in the private sector and at the local level was substantial. In
the private sector, FID contributed to the emergence of a large number of contractors that specialized in
delivering services in rural areas and in the context of local development initiatives. Today these
contractors represent an important pool of expertise that can be tapped by other donors and FID itself.

At the local level, the Third Social Fund had a significant impact on the organizational capacity of
communities. The emergence of local water user associations is particularly remarkable. For schools,
parents' associations were effectively incorporated and played a major role by participating in sub-project
activities from the formulation of the requests to the completion of the infrastructure. The pilot capacity
building activities also laid the ground for more sustained community involvement. Based on the success of
the pilot, FID now involves communes and community associations in procurement and supervision of
investments on a larger scale under the Community Development Project. The pilot also introduced
municipal planning exercises, which is today a standard practice for all donor investments at the commune
level in Madagascar.

The project had established contacts with the CDD initiative in West Africa and participated in workshops
in Senegal and Guinea. This enabled project staff to exchange experiences and see what is being done
elsewhere. This kind of exchange programs is particularly important for Madagascar, which is very



                                                       - 8 -

isolated and generally suffers from lack of exposure.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Cyclones. The series of Cyclones (Eline, Gloria and Hudah) that hit Madagascar on February 16, March 2
and April 2, 2000 respectively hit the country only six months after project effectiveness. The combined
impact of wind and rain caused significant damage across sectors and was a serious blow to the economy
of Madagascar. The impact was compounded by an on-going drought that began a few months prior to the
passage of the cyclones. On the whole, these cyclones and their aftermath significantly delayed project
implementation.

Political Crisis. Due to political crisis in Madagascar in early 2002, project implementation was delayed
significantly for a period of about six months from January to June 2002. Since roads were blocked and
fuel became increasingly scarce, FID's activities were limited during this period. Nonetheless, in the end,
90 percent of the 2002 work program was executed. Adjustments were made in the post-crisis period to
help local enterprises get restarted. For example, offer guarantees were eliminated and beneficiary
contributions were reduced.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Coordination with Line Ministries. The project had to deal with coordination problems with line ministries
and other donors. For example, despite formal agreements with line agencies at the central and
deconcentrated levels to staff and equip communal infrastructure built under the project, the Ministries of
Health and Education did not always making qualified staff and necessary supplies available. As a result,
there were problems in the operation of the new infrastructure. To address part of this problem, FID
agreed with the line ministries to provide fully equipped buildings ( i.e. including furniture in schools and
medical equipment for health facilities) and train personnel rather than wait for the ministries to take the
necessary actions. However, overall lack of staff remained a problem in certain cases ,and this has affected
the sustainability of some of the new facilities.

Coordination with other donors turned out to be a problem during project implementation and could have
required more guidance by the Government. In particular, FID's progressive move towards community
driven and local government executed projects was not "framed" by a clear and coherent national strategy
on decentralization. Despite efforts to coordinate implementation procedures at the technical level, this
contributed to the fragmentation of local development programs in Madagascar.

Road Fund: The Road Fund should have provided an estimated US$300/km per year for the maintenance
of tertiary roads to be rehabilitated by FID, with an additional US$300 matched by the communes.
However, due to delays in the implementation of the road fund and the inability of local governments to
provide the necessary counterpart payments, this arrangement turned out to be largely ineffective. FID
could have reacted to this problem more efficiently (i.e. by putting even more emphasis on
community-based maintenance, providing small equipment and training to the beneficiaries and ensuring
that the project finance only community roads and not provincial roads (which are often longer and where
effective ownership is more difficult to ascertain). However, a systemic response to this problem was
introduced at the end of the Third Social Fund. FID now requires the creation of a maintenance fund
managed by a committee for each rural road sub-project. These maintenance funds are set up with initial
community counterpart payments and are replenished by user fees.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Selection Of Small And Medium Size Enterprises: FID worked with contractors that were pre-selected


                                                     - 9 -

annually on the basis of their capacity and equipment; thereafter bids were evaluated only on cost-basis and
without verifying the information provided by the contractors at the time of pre-selection. Because of this,
individual consultants who didn't have appropriate qualifications were selected and as a result, the quality
of work was affected. To address this problem, FID has started to systematically train local contractors on
issues related to project execution.

Poverty Targeting. A recent World Bank study was conducted on poverty targeting by Bank-financed
projects. With respect to the Social Fund, the study showed that when correlating FID investment data
with the Malagasy poverty map, allocations to poorest districts decreased from 21.5 percent to 13.5
percent of total investments during the period of 1997 to 2001. Close to 45 percent of the funds were
allocated to the two richest quintiles of districts (see table 1).

                        Table 1. Targeting of FID projects according district poverty levels
                                          (FID I - FID III, rural districts only)
                    Quintile 1997             1998       1999      2000       2001       Total
                       1        21.55%       17.41%    12.61%     13.93%     12.79%     13.52%
                       2        20.18%       18.87%    21.55%     23.71%     20.45%     21.34%
                       3        12.45%       17.39%    20.98%     24.48%     18.73%     20.24%
                       4        28.30%       23.11%    24.00%     21.54%     29.54%     26.13%
                       5        17.52%       23.23%    20.86%     16.33%     18.49%     18.78%
                      All       100 %       100.00%    100.00%    100.00%   100.00%    100.00%
Note: Quintile 1 stands for the poorest districts
Source: FID project data and Madagascar 1993 poverty map data. Analysis carried out by Laza Razafiarison (
World Bank Consultant).

This shortcoming is explained by a number of factors, some of which were under FID's control. FID was
designed in an environment characterized by widespread poverty in rural areas and little poverty data
available to establish detailed targeting criteria (the poverty map only became available in 2001). In this
context, at the time of project design, the Government and the World Bank decided on national coverage of
project activities (in rural areas only), assuming that this would automatically benefit the poor. However,
FID should have paid more attention to targeting in some areas. Sub-project selection, carried out by
provincial steering committees, often followed subjective criteria. FID could have done more to ensure that
more objective and transparent criteria (such as accessibility or density of existing services) was used or
that sub-projects were distributed more equitably across districts and communes. Moreover, the
supplemental credit was distributed across the entire country at the Government's request, despite the fact
that the severe cyclone damage was concentrated in the northeast. As a result, the amount of resources
available to the most affected communes was reduced.

Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E). Impact analysis was a central preoccupation of the FID, as evidenced
by the identification of indicators by sub-project category and by an internal reorganization that FID
undertook to better adapt its system to the needs of field staff. This followed a World Bank M&E mission
(July 2000) that aimed to assist FID in upgrading its system. The M&E system was able to provide reliable
output data. For outcomes, data were collected one year after sub-project completion and complemented by
information from the technical audit and beneficiary assessments. However, the organizational effort and
documentation on the impact of the project was impaired by the lack of methodology, in particular by the
absence of appropriate techniques to draw useful conclusions and lessons learned. In particular, the
absence of clear identification of priority areas to study, of control groups, and of baseline and repeater
surveys on target and control groups constituted important drawbacks of FID's impact evaluation. Yet,
FID's initial attempt to measure outcomes is commendable. Under the follow-up project, a new M&E
mission provided recommendations to improve the impact assessment methodology.



                                                       - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of the initial project was about US$17.7 million to be financed through an IDA credit of US$15.0
million, counterpart funds from the Government in the amount of US$1.6 million, and contributions from
beneficiary communities equivalent to US$1.1 million. The cost of the cyclone rehabilitation activities
under the Supplemental Credit was US$24.0 million to be financed through an IDA credit of US$18.0
million, government contribution in the amount of US$3.0 million, and contributions from communities
equivalent to US$3.0 million. At project closure, IDA disbursement for both credits amounted to US$31.7
million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

Sustainability of FID and its partners. FID remains a strong institution which has demonstrated its ability
to manage a large program throughout Madagascar with competent staff and efficient operating
procedures. The requests by the Government for continuing phases of FID involvement are further
evidence of the viability of FID. As mentioned in Section 4.5 on Institutional Development Impact, there
has been considerable improvement in the capacity of local contractors and consulting firms. Nevertheless,
continued external funding is necessary to maintain these gains.

Sustainability of FID's sub-projects. Operation and maintenance problems were noted during the
SECALINE and the Second Social Fund projects. FID and the Bank paid close attention to this issue and
actions were taken to ensure sub-project sustainability. Community maintenance committees, which did
not exit under the Second Social Fund, were established and trained. A survey of the functionality of
sub-projects implemented under the Second Social Fund was completed. Moreover, attempts were made to
involve communes more systematically in sub-project selection and implementation to ensure that they
would assist with maintenance aspects. According to the 2003 Beneficiary Assessment report (based on
2001 data), the health, education, and water sectors seem to be performing well and have a good chance of
sustainability, although the report indicates that lack of medical staff remains a crucial problem in many
health facilities. Sustainability seemed more difficult for road and irrigation sub-projects. In many cases,
sub-project management and maintenance committees have been constituted but are non-operational. For
small-scale irrigation, local associations were established to clean the primary and secondary canals but
works have frequently not been completed due to lack of technical and financial resources. The
degradation of rehabilitated feeder roads is also a major concern in several cases. Without maintenance,
increased traffic accelerates their degradation. In view of this, mobilization of the riverside communities
and users of the tracks by the authorities is very important. The impact assessment planned under the
Community Development Project is expected to provide detailed information on how well maintenance
issues have been addressed under the Third Social Fund, and remedial measures are expected to take place.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FID has made substantial efforts in creating awareness among the various communities who have benefited
from sub-projects as to the need for maintenance, and is allocating funds to train community members in
proper maintenance techniques. In the case of primary schools and health posts, FID signed new
agreements with the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education to ensure that appropriate personnel be
posted in facilities and supplies be available more systematically. Where staff were already in place, the
social fund provided training to improve the quality of services delivered. FID and other parties concerned
have also made a strong case to budget resources from the road fund for road maintenance activities as



                                                      - 11 -

communal budgets alone will not be sufficient to finance road maintenance activities. For the time being,
beneficiary contributions are being used to create road maintenance funds at the local level.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for social sector
interventions in rural areas. The Bank ensured the project's consistency with the government's
development priorities and the Bank's CAS. In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological
aspects and local issues while designing the project. With a harmonious team of a good skill mix, the Bank
responded favourably to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultations during preparation was highly productive, and initiated a
process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was overall satisfactory.
The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared
and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring benchmarks for actions. These alerted the
government and the implementing agency to problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a
timely manner, in conformity with the Bank procedures. The Project Status Reports realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank task team was able to define
concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back on track. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the
project's likely development impact. The quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions were
adequate. Covenants and remedies were enforced effectively.

The team established a good framework for coordination of the FID with other World Bank-financed
projects; however, follow-up to this commendable coordination effort proved difficult. In the health and
education sectors, agreements were reached that established FID as the only window financing investments
in schools and health infrastructure. Nonetheless, more synergies with other sectors could have been
sought. For example, investing some resources of the Third Social Fund in areas opened up by the national
roads built by the roads project would have increased the impact of project investments. Synergy could
also have arisen from investments from the agriculture and environment projects. With the decentralization
of Bank functions to the Country Office in Madagascar, the Bank could provide quick response and
follow-up. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation. They
worked closely with the Government and the implementing agency, and provided them with extensive
assistance, including technical advice. However, supervision teams were usually very small and included
only specialists in operations, economics, civil works, procurement and financial management. Given the
multi-sectoral nature of the project, regular supervision by technical specialists in irrigation may have
helped improve the sustainability of irrigation sub-projects. Also, the participation of environment and
water specialists in the supervision team may have helped avoid some shortcomings in the construction
design (e.g. lack of incinerators in health facilities, inappropriate water drainage for standpipes). In other
sectors, collaboration with sector colleagues compensated for the lack of more specialized technical


                                                       - 12 -

supervision.

Performance of the World Bank and of the Government on supervision of FID staff contracts is
questionable. During the transition from the Second Social Fund to the Third -- and later on during the
course of the Third Social Fund -- contracts for senior staff at the central and regional levels were extended
with exponential increase in salaries. The increase was more than threefold for the General Manager and
several Directors between 1999 and mid 2003, when inflation was about 40 percent over the period. At
project completion, the salary of the General Manager was by and large the highest of all World
Bank-financed project directors. To address this issue, the government has recently undertaken a process
of harmonization of salary levels for project directors, starting with the FID. More transparency on salary
scales for project staff is also necessary.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation. There was excellent coordination between the project team and all relevant sector and
operations units.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. Government officials and staff of the
implementing agency worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full
cooperation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government implementation performance was overall satisfactory. It consistently maintained
its commitment throughout the implementation. The FID was under the direct control of the prime
minister's office, who gave it a free hand to manage the project according to the manual of procedures and
who did not interfere with the day-to-day management and operational decisions. Government officials
were very responsive in taking the necessary corrective implementation measures, and in dealing effectively
with operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial
accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. The insufficient budgetary
allocation for recurrent costs in health and education facilities is a structural problem in Madagascar,
which goes beyond the social fund activities and is addressed under sectoral policies.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of FID, which implemented the project, was overall satisfactory. As a
financing entity, FID provided grants to finance sub-projects identified and prepared by the beneficiaries
themselves, carried out promotional activities, appraised sub-projects, supervised their implementation, and
monitored and evaluated their impact on the target groups. The role of FID in implementation varied
depending on the amount of the grant for, and therefore on the size of, the sub-project.

FID was well-organized, consisted of highly motivated and well-paid staff, and implemented the project
with considerable enthusiasm and maturity. It effectively followed procedures established under the Credit



                                                     - 13 -

Agreement for reporting, procurement, contracting, disbursement, accounting and auditing. Difficult
contractual and operational issues were successfully resolved. In addition, the personnel responded flexibly
to unforeseen problems, as is demonstrated by reform of the M&E system, maintenance arrangements and
capacity building programs that were undertaken during the course of project implementation.

Some concern was expressed that the sites for the new health and education facilities were in some cases
too far away from the beneficiaries.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was overall satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


·        Targeting. More attention should be devoted to improve targeting even when poverty is pervasive.
An important factor in this respect is the application of transparent and objective selection and allocation
criteria. Several approaches can be envisaged: When no poverty map is available, a standard allocation
formula for districts and communes can be introduced as this would increase predictability for local
governments and communities. Formula design would not need to be sophisticated and could draw on
simple indicators, such as population size or number of villages within a commune. Finally, communes
could be classified into three to five categories of poverty to allocate a little more to poorer ones. When
poverty data is available, targeting can be done on the basis of "objective" needs. In Madagascar,
information is now available through recently completed data sources such as the poverty map or the
commune census on local infrastructure endowments and economic potentials.

·        Monitoring and Evaluation. While FID collected abundant information on project implementation,
the lack of counterfactual and baseline data presents a number of challenges for analysing the impact. Good
data collection should therefore be paired with good methodology and a clearer evaluation strategy. The
sustainability issue cannot be properly addressed without empirical evidence. Surveys on the operation
and maintenance of the completed sub-projects should be preformed regularly and remedial actions should
be taken in a timely manner.

·        Sustainability. Creating maintenance committees is not sufficient to ensure sustainability of
community sub-projects. More permanent efforts have to be devoted to ensure that these associations
continue to function after sub-project completion. In addition, social funds should develop more binding
agreements and cooperative arrangements with line agencies in order to ensure that commitments for the
operation of infrastructure are respected. Ultimately however, only sector policy dialogue can solve this
issue.

·        Supervision budget of multi-sectoral projects should reflect the multi-sectoral nature of these
projects. Failing to do so may limit the impact of some category of sub-projects.

·        Coordination with other sectoral Bank operations. The framework for coordination of the FID
with rural projects was agreed upon and put in place but there was no follow-up. There should be a
permanent coordination mechanism to maximize synergies between projects. This can take the form of
monthly meetings of Bank and project staff for social sector and rural projects (this approach has been
practiced for some time between FID and the Bank's health, education, and nutrition projects). However, in
the long-run more government involvement and a more coherent national strategy for local development
would be required to improve coordination on a more permanent basis.



                                                      - 14 -

·       Donor Coordination. Efforts should be made during preparation to make social funds
programmatic ­ with the social fund becoming the principal government vehicle for channelling various
donor resources into local development. Although some competition may be good, utter fragmentation is
not. Local-level stakeholders complain that various community development programs--including
different Bank-funded programs--have different requirements (e.g. for beneficiary contributions,
sub-project cycle etc..). Fragmented CDD donor programs also have the tendency to drive local
development agendas rather than support them. Again, more government involvement, and clearer policy
guidance would help resolve these problems on a more permanent basis.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

    See Annex 9

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Nadine T. Poupart (Task Team Leader)
Frank-Borge Wietzke (Consultant)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Astania Kamau (Program Assistant)
Norosoa Andrianaivo (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

Eileen Murray (March 1999-June 2001
Susanne Holste (July 2001- June 2003)




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                         Outcome/Impact Indicators
                        (Including Initial Project and Supplemental Credit)
         Indicator                                  Projected in SAR/PAD                  Actual/Latest Estimate
         EDUCATION
         -Number of children of all ages            111,800                               89,336
         enrolled in primary schools
         - Exam success rate                        33                                    46
         HEALTH
         - Annual visits to the health center       893,500                               777,774
         POTABLE WATER
         Consumers of potable water                 88,270                                16,2841
         MARKETS
         Number of vendors                          22,525                                25,566
         IRRIGATION
         - Annual rice production in tons           10,890                                13,000
         - Annual yield per hectare of rice         2.2                                   1.96
         - Number of crops per year                 1,5                                   2
         - Number of beneficiary farmers            9,400                                 6,706
         ROADS
         Farm gate and market price of rice         3,100                                 2,550



                                               Output Indicators
                        (Including Initial Project and Supplemental Credit)
                        Indicator                   Projected in SAR/PAD                  Actual/Latest Estimate
         Number of schools rehabilitated            285                                   486
         Number of health centers rehabilitated     85                                    168
         Number of water supply projects            65                                    70
         Number of hectares irrigated               4,750                                 8,333
         Number of markets and slaughter            85                                    107
         houses
         Number of km of rural roads                660                                   582
         constructed/rehabilitated
         Number of person-days of temporary         3,500,000                             2,423,722
         employment
1There were no detailed outcome indicators in the PAD. Therefore outcome estimates refer to data collected at sub
  project levl during their appraisal (the numbers are for the totally of sub projects financed under FID).
1Note: Actual estimates are based on FID's own evaluation of sub projects one year after
completion. This data was available for 68% of projects in education, 83% of projects in
health, 64% in water, 37% of markets 27% in irrigation, and 20% of road projects.




                                                             - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million      US$ million
Rehabilitation of Community Infrastructure                         26.90             27.10              101
Capacity Building Operations                                         1.00              1.20             117
FID Management & Operations                                          1.70              1.50              88

Total Baseline Cost                                                29.60             29.80
  Physical Contingencies                                             0.50              0.30              60
  Price Contingencies                                                2.30              1.60              70
                          Total Project Costs                      32.40             31.70
                   Total Financing Required                        32.40             31.70


                                                                                                Annex 2b
Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)** Includes Initial
Project and Supplemental Credit. Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under
parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the
items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.


   Expenditure               Procurement Method                            Procurement Method
   Categories                 Appraisal Estimate                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                   ICB     NCB       Other     NBF       Total    ICB    NCB     Other    NBF     Total
  1 Works &                  3       24.3                27.3             28.2                     28.2
  goods
  2 Consultants                       1.3                 1.3
  3 Technical                         0.5                 0.5             1.5                      1.5
  Assistance,                                                             (*)
  audit training
  4. Equipment,    0.4      0.2                           0.6
  vehicles and
  furniture, and
  material
  5. Misc.,                           2.8                 2.8                      2.0             2.0
  Operating                                                                       (**)
  costs
  Total            0.4      3.2      28.9                32.5             29.8     2.0             31.7

(*) the figures also include category 2
(**) this figure also includes category 4
NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures,



                                                   - 17 -

 consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
 The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as
 NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.


                                                                                       Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) (Including Initial Project and
Supplemental Credit)
Component        Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
             Bank   Govern-      Co-      Bank    Govern-      Co-     Bank  Govern-     Co-
                     ment      financier            ment     financier        ment     financier
Rehabilitati 25    2          2.7        24      0         2.4         90   0         80
on of
Community
Infrastructu
re
Capacity     0.9   0          1          0.9     0.1       1           100  100       100
Building
Operations
FID          4.1   0.41       4.5        3.3     0.3       3.6         80   70        80
Manageme
nt &
Operations




                                              - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/09/98                  6     Task Team Leader, Consultant, 1       S               S
                                               FMS, 1 PS, 1 PO, 1 PA

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/15/1998                5     TTL, 1 field Financial                S               S
               (Appraisal)                     Analyst, 1 Sr. Procurement
                                               Specialist, 1 field
                                               Procurement Spec., field
                                               team assistant,
               1/11/1999                11     Country Director, Sector              S               S
               (Negotiation)                   Manager, TTL, Legal Counsel, 1
                                               Disbursement Officer, 1
                                               Dibursement Analyst, 1 Sr.
                                               Procurement Specialist, 1
                                               Procurement Spec., 1 Consultant,
                                               1 Program Assistant

 Supervision
               FY 1999                    6    TTL, 1 Consultant, 1 FMS, 1           S               S
                                               PS, 1 Program Officer, 1
                                               Program Assistant
               FY2000                     4    TTL and field office team             S               S
               FY2001                     4    TTL (1); SR.OPERATIONS                S               S
                                               OFFICER (1), 1 FMS, 1 PS
               FY2002                     6    TTL, 1 Sr. Operations Officer,        S               S
                                               1 Sr. Human Res. Economist
                                               1 Operations specialist (M&E)
                                               1FMS, 1 PS
               FY2003                     4    TTL, Sr. Operations Officer,          S               S
                                               FMS, 1 PS.

 ICR
               FY2004                    6      TTL, Sr. Transport Spec., 2          S               S
                                                PS, 1 FMS, 1 Consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 0.2                             0.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      6.3                            18.0
  Supervision                              20.9                            106.7
  ICR                                        3.0                            12.5
  Total                                    30.4                            137.7




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
1 Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants
2 Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
3 Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report, dated July 2003.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Madagascar: Third Social Fund Project dated February 16,
    1999 (Report No. 18967-MAG).

6. Manuel de Procedures FID, dated December 1998

7. Mid-term review documentation of Second Social Fund Project

8. Draft documentation on maintenance issues for Second Social Fund Project

9. Evaluation of FID's Financial Management System

  *Including electronic files.




                                                 - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Final Project Evaluation

                              SYNTHESE GENERALE DU FID

                                                              Antananarivo  Ie
17 Decembre 2003

                                                              A

                                                              Monsieur      Ie
Directeur des Operations
                                                              pour Madagascar,
Maurice, Comores et
                                                              Seychelles

                                                              BANQUE MONDIALE
                                                              Anosy
                                                              ANTANANARIVO


Objet : commentaire du gouvemement sur Ie rapport
        d'achevement du projet Fill III.


Monsieur le Directeur,

Après avoir examiné le rapport d'achevement du projet FIDIII, nous
vous prions de trouver ci-dessous nos
commentaires sur le dudit rapport.

En général, le résultat du projet est satisfaisant, les objectifs
fixes ont été atteints :
      - Les réhabilitations et les constructions des infrastructures
communautaires
      - Le Renforcement des capacités
      - La création d'emplois et l'appui au secteur privé

Dans le cadre de l'administration et du gestion de Projet :
      - Le projet a repondu aux exigences du Pays; le décaissement a
été rapide
      - Les objectifs ont été réalistes et il y a eu bonne capacité
d'absorption du Pays et de l' AGEX
      - Les normes minimaies (ratio) ont ete appliquées en matière
d'exécution
      - La conception a été faite suivant le processus participatif

Concernant l'Environnement et l' impact, le projet a complété les
stratégies de développement sectoriels

Pourtant, les remarques suivantes méritent d'être stipulées :
      1.    L'association       et     ses     membres   doivent  s'approprier
effectivement du projet
      2. L 'appropriation des bénéficiaires est à développer dans tous
les aspects du projet



                                         - 24 -

         3. Il faut qu'il y ait une meilleure coordination entre les
intervenants et les bailleurs dans le cadre du
              programme du gouvernement
         4. La perennité de l'approche communautaire est à continuer et
enfin, la performance des agences
              d'exécution et des différents partenaires est à renforcer.

Veuillez        agreer,          Monsieur        le    Directeur,          l'expression           de      notre
considération distinguée.




         Dans l'ensemble, les sous-projets réalisés sous la houlette du FID ont répondu aux attentes des
bénéficiaires et ont atteint les résultats attendus.

         La fonctionnalité et la solidité des infrastructures sont fortement appréciées, pour lesquels les taux
de satisfaction des bénéficiaires sont très élevés.

         Toutefois, les résultats des sessions de focus-groupes réalisés avec les différentes catégories de
bénéficiaires ont fait ressortir des appréciations plutôt mitigées sur la fonctionnalité, la solidité et le risque
de dégradation rapide des pistes et des barrages pour certains cas.

         L'étude d'impacts des infrastructures productives et de déblocage permet d'affirmer l'impact
positif des sous-projets qui ont pour la plupart des taux de rentabilité élevés.

         Il s'avère pour les sous-projets inclus dans l'étude que ce sont les pistes qui ont les taux de
rentabilité les plus élevés. Cependant, les taux de rentabilité ne sont toujours positifs quelques
micro-perimètres irrigués dans les DR d'Antsiranana, de Toamasina et de Toliary.

         Les impacts majeurs relevés pour les infrastructures de déblocage et les infrastructures
économiques sont : (i) l'augmentation des recettes communales, l'augmentation des revenus des
producteurs vendeurs pour les marches, (ii) le désenclavement effectif des zones concernées et
l'augmentation du trafic pour les pistes, (iii) l'amélioration de la sécurité alimentaire et l'intensification de
la production pour les micro-perimètres irrigués.

         Pour les projets sociaux, leurs impacts sont qualifiés de positifs par la quasi-totalité des
bénéficiaires. Ces impacts se matérialisent par l'amélioration de l'accès aux services sociaux de base : (i)
amélioration de l'accès à l'éducation et des taux de réussite aux examens pour l'éducation, (ii)
Amélioration du taux de fréquentation des CSB et réduction significative des maladies endémiques, (iii)
réduction des corvées d'eau et amélioration des conditions d'hygiène et de santé pour les AEP.



                                                      - 25 -

         Cependant, les problèmes relevant des responsabilités des services déconcentrés, notamment
l'insuffisance en personnels, matériels et équipements compromettent sérieusement l'atteinte des résultats
escomptés.

         L'appui fourni par le FID et ses partenaires à l'endroit des structures de gestion de l'exécution des
travaux leur ont permis de se familiariser avec les procédures et avec les mécanismes de contrôle technique,
de gestion financière et administrative, engendrant une dynamique de proximité institutionnelle pour le
développement local.

         Il est reconnu qu'en dépit des aspects positifs du transfert de responsabilités et de compétence,
beaucoup de responsables sont confrontes à de nombreuses difficultés en matière de gestion financière,
administrative et technique de la réalisation des travaux.

         L'on observe également une confusion et des cas de manque de synergie entre les différentes parties
prenantes au niveau local (Cellules de projets- Communes- Associations- Comites d'entretien).

                                                    SYNTHESE

         Les 60 sous-projets ayant fait l'objet d'étude au niveau national ont donné les résultats attendus.

              Certains facteurs de non satisfaction relevés au niveau de quelques sous-projets résultent de
    facteurs exogènes ou des imperfections techniques.


INFRASTRUCTURES SOCIALES


         Les infrastructures sociales réalisées en matière d'éducation, de santé, et d'adduction d'eau ont
largement contribué à l'amélioration des performances scolaires, de l'état de santé de la population, et de
l'effectivité de l'approvisionnement en eau de la population.

Education

         L'intervention du FID, avec le concours des autorités locales, a été favorablement perçue par les
bénéficiaires, notamment les parents d'élèves. L'information/ sensibilisation menée a largement contribué à
la réalisation des sous projets

         Dans tous les faritany, la fréquentation scolaire a accusé un net accroissement. Mis à part quelques
cas isolés, l'amélioration du taux de réussite, de redoublement et d'abandon traduit le succès des sous
projets.

Santé

         Les nouvelles constructions/ réhabilitation ont facilité l'accès des populations aux services de
santé. Partout, le nombre des consultations pour les différentes prestations a enregistré une augmentation
remarquable, notamment auprès des services relatifs à la vaccination, à la consultation pré-natale et aux
accouchements. Le taux de prévalence des maladies a accusé une diminution.

         Cependant l'insuffisance en nombre du personnel médical dans la majorité des localités visitées est
un problème crucial.



                                                      - 26 -

Adduction d'eau potable

         Les réalisations effectuées ont apporté l'amélioration des conditions de vie de la population.
Les différents indicateurs étudiés confirment la diminution des corvées d'eau et du taux de prévalence des
maladies hydriques, ainsi que de l'augmentation de la consommation en eau.

Partout, les effets bénéfiques apportés par les réalisations ont été reconnus par l'ensemble des bénéficiaires.
La fonctionnalité des structures de gestion de l'eau au niveau de chaque site ayant rencontré l'adhésion de
tous les usagers traduit l'importance accordée aux réalisations.


INFRASTRUCTURES PRODUCTIVES


         Dans l'ensemble, les infrastructures productives aménagées ont contribué à l'amélioration des
conditions de vie des bénéficiaires. A des degrés différents, l'augmentation des revenus des usagers est
enregistrée. Les taux de rentabilité économique calculés sont significatifs, à quelques exceptions près à
savoir le marché de Bevilany / Maevatanana (+10%), les micro périmètres irrigués d'Ambodimanga /
Sambava (+11%) et d'Ambinanitelo / Maroantsetra (+12%), et la piste Blig Mahatsara / Mananjary
(+4%).

         Les bénéficiaires sont unanimes à reconnaître la priorité des réalisations. Leur implication dans la
réalisation des sous-projets dans la plupart des sites et la collaboration entre les parties prenantes sont
constatées. A part le renforcement de la capacité de gestion de la réalisation pour les communes et les
cellules de projet constituées, les avis sur le développement de la capacité locale sont partagés.

         Le transfert de compétence est plutôt assimilé aux formations et responsabilisations entreprises par
le FID. A titre d'illustration, le Maire d'Ambarjeby a affirmé que les séances d'information sur la mise en
place de la cellule de projet sont assez suffisantes pour leur permettre d'accéder au FID IV.

         La responsabilité et la capacité de décision des communes ou des Cellules de Projets sont
cependant jugées très limitées. Néanmoins, comme pour le cas de Melaky où de fortes pressions politiques,
religieuses, administratives sont exercées sur la communauté, les prestations du FID sont généralement
ressenties comme des leviers pour la réalisation d'infrastructures rurales dans des zones enclavées.

         Les sous-projets sont fonctionnels, mais leur pérennisation nécessite plus d'implication de la part
des communes, notamment en ce qui concerne les pistes et les MPI.

Marchés

         7 constructions de marché ont fait l'objet de l'évaluation. Les impacts observés sont positifs. A
l'exception du marché de Bevilany, les taux de rentabilité sont toujours supérieurs à 50%. Leur
contribution au développement local est notable et s'est traduite par l'augmentation et la diversification des
produits écoulés. Parmi les effets induits l'on peut citer : la concurrence qui a entraîné l'amélioration des
prix des produits, l'approvisionnement des sites en PPN, la création de lignes de transport.

         Dans la majorité des cas, une nette augmentation des recettes communales est enregistrée. C'est,
d'ailleurs, le seul cas d'infrastructures productives où les retombées sur la capacité financière de la
commune sont effectives.



                                                      - 27 -

         Les marchés figurent parmi les premières priorités des bénéficiaires interviewés. Mais ils déplorent
souvent l'absence de latrines et de bacs à ordures. Les apports sont réalisés en nature ou en numéraires.

         L'implication des communes dans les constructions de marché est remarquable aussi bien au
niveau de la mobilisation des bénéficiaires pour les apports que pour la gestion des réalisations.

         Dans la plupart des cas, les recettes engendrées sont gérées par les communes.

        Les cellules de projet ont effectivement assuré la gestion des réalisations dans 5 cas sur 7 et ont
reçu une formation de la part du FID.

         Des initiatives de nettoyage périodique sont prises par les bénéficiaires directes du marché mais
dans l'ensemble l'organisation pour la pérennisation (entretien et maintenance) n'est pas effective. Les
fonds affectés pour l'entretien n'existent pas.

Les Micro périmètres irrigués

         Les micro périmètres irrigués ont répondu aux priorités locales. Une amélioration notoire de la
productivité est observée. L'intensification des cultures de contre-saison et/ou la possibilité de pratiquer
deux saisons de culture apportent des revenus supplémentaires aux ménages concernés. La diminution de la
période de soudure est ressentie par l'ensemble des bénéficiaires interviewés. A Bekitohy/Ankazoabo Sud le
riz a remplacé le manioc qui constituait pendant longtemps la nourriture de base de la population.

         Les impacts sur la capacité financière des communes de tutelle sont nuls. Les taux de rentabilité
sont positifs mais dans 3 sites à savoir : Ambinanitelo/Maroantsetra, Ambodimanga/Sambava et
Bekitohy/Betioky-sud la faiblesse des surfaces exploitées après la réalisation des sous-projets ont limité les
résultats. Il est à noter que l'implication des services d'encadrement agricole est souhaitée pour mieux
valoriser les investissements. A Bekitohy (Ankazoabo sud) la maladie des plants de riz et les techniques
mises en oeuvre par les paysans sont à l'origine de la faible productivité.

         Les cellules de projet n'ont pas été mises en place dans 5 sites de la Direction Régionale de Tuléar,
Fianarantsoa et Toamasina. Par contre, les associations ou les fokonolona s'organisent pour effectuer des
entretiens périodiques surtout au niveau des canaux d'irrigation des parcelles. Leur capacité technique est
cependant limitée pour assurer les travaux d'entretien.

Pistes rurales

         Les réhabilitations de piste effectuées ont eu des impacts significatifs. Elles ont contribué au
désenclavement de zones à fortes potentialités. Faute d'entretien, cependant, la densité du trafic risque
d'accélérer leur dégradation. Les effets induits sont la baisse du coût de transport, la hausse des prix des
produits, la création de nouveaux marchés. Les taux de rentabilité économiques sont élevés et dépassent
75% pour beaucoup de cas. La piste Blig Mahatsara/Mananjary avec 4% du taux de rentabilité constitue
une exception car les zones productrices ne sont pas touchées par le sous-projet et les transporteurs
n'utilisent pas la piste.

         Des impacts importants sur les recettes communales sont enregistrés à Morafenobe et à
Amparafaravola où des systèmes de péage sont appliqués.




                                                    - 28 -

         50% des sites n'ont pas de cellule de projet, là où elles sont effectives, elles se sont occupées de la
mobilisation des bénéficiaires et de la surveillance des travaux après une formation donnée par le FID.

         Le recrutement d'une main d'oeuvre locale et la formation de la main d'oeuvre spécialisée en vue de
l'entretien sont respectées par les entreprises dans la majorité des sites. Seulement, les structures d'entretien
ne sont pas opérationnelles. En conséquence, les pluies et l'intensité du trafic risquent d'accélérer fortement
la dégradation des pistes réhabilitées.

                                      RECOMMANDATIONS GENERALES

Les résultats obtenus de l'étude d'impacts et de l'évaluation par les bénéficiaires ont amené à la
formulation des recommandations générales suivantes :


Sur la collaboration avec FID et avec les parties prenantes:

    1. La décentralisation du FID au niveau des Fivondronana est souhaitée par les bénéficiaires.
    2. Les sessions de sensibilisation préalables à mener conjointement par le FID et les autorités
         communales et locales sont à entreprendre de façon systématique pour une meilleure connaissance
         des procédures et démarches FID dans la réalisation et la pérennisation des infrastructures.
    3. Des indicateurs spécifiques par type de sous-projet sont à établir au moment de l'étude ex-ante des
         sous-projets pour permettre une comparaison plus systématique pendant l'évaluation des impacts
         réels après leur réalisation.
    4. Des concertations au niveau local sont à renforcer pour :
­        assurer la prise en compte des vraies priorités locales, du recrutement de la main d'oeuvre locale et
des possibilités de partenariat avec les entreprises locales/régionales,
­        prendre en considération les avis des bénéficiaires dans la conception technique des sous-projets,
­        une implication des services responsables ou de tutelle pour la fonctionnalité et la rentabilité des
infrastructures. Sont particulièrement relevés : l'insuffisance de personnels enseignants et médicaux, de
matériels et mobiliers et la faible capacité d'accueil des CSB et des écoles,
­        une adhésion de la population quant à la gestion et l'entretien des réalisations.


Sur les apports:

    5. Les apports en nature étant préférés à ceux en numéraires, des normes préalables sont à établir
         pour éviter des problèmes lors de leur validation.
    6. La potentialité économique de la Commune devrait être étudiée pour la détermination de la nature
         des apports.
    7. La constitution des apports ne devrait coïncider ni avec la période de soudure, ni avec la période de
         collecte.
    8. La réduction des apports est vivement souhaitée pour le FID IV. Le taux proposé varie de 5% à
         10%.
    9. Les bénéficiaires suggèrent le commencement des travaux dès la constitution du tiers des apports
    10. D'aucuns estiment que la validation des apports devrait être du ressort du FID et non des
         entreprises




                                                      - 29 -

Sur la formation:

   11. Des formations techniques et de gestion plus soutenues, faciles à assimiler, à l'endroit des
        responsables des communes, des cellules de projet et des comités d'entretien sont nécessaires.
   12. La nécessité du renforcement des capacités surtout pour le volet passation des marchés et gestion
        financière est ressentie par de nombreux bénéficiaires.
   13. La prolongation de la durée des sessions de formation a été également fréquemment suggérée.



Sur l'exécution et la gestion du sous-projet:

   14. Les bénéficiaires souhaitent avoir un droit de regard pendant la réalisation des sous projets. La
        transparence dans la gestion du sous projet est souvent exigée surtout en matière de gestion
        financière, d'information régulière sur l'état d'avancement des travaux et la gestion globale des
        travaux
   15. Il est constaté qu'un certain niveau d'instruction des responsables du sous projet surtout pour les
        chefs de projet (ex : BEPC) garantirait un minimum d'efficience dans la gestion
   16. Le rôle et la responsabilité de chaque entité dans la réalisation et dans la gestion du sous projet
        devraient être clarifiés et précisés, afin de prévenir les confusions de rôles qui prévalent pour
        certains cas. Egalement, l'implication des autorités locales dans la réalisation du sous projet
        devrait être toujours considérée.
   17. Des souhaits ont été formulés pour le bien-fondé de la rémunération du président de la cellule de
        projet et /ou du responsable du projet.
   18. L'inexistence d'une cellule de projet qui est observée dans de nombreuses localités devrait faire
        l'objet de mesures spécifiques. Il en est de même pour les associations de gestion dont
        l'opérationnalité devrait être assurée.
   19. Il y a lieu de rendre les dispositions prises pour la gestion et l'utilisation effective des
        infrastructures, notamment pour les cas des marchés et des pistes.
   20. L'opérationnalité des structures de gestion des infrastructures doit être prise en considération (
        comité de gestion, association des usagers,...)
   .

Sur l'entretien:

21.     La mise en place des structures d'entretien et de pérennisation est vivement recommandée.
        Parallèlement, les communes sont appelées à prévoir des crédits pour l'entretien des
        infrastructures.
        Des mesures alternatives telles que l'insertion des fonds d'entretien dans les financements FID sont
        aussi proposées.


Sur le choix des prestataires:

   22. L'exigence de capacité et de professionnalisme des BE et des entreprises ont fait l'objet d'une
        insistance particulière de la part de nombreuses catégories de bénéficiaires, car les mauvaises
        réalisations entraînent la défaillance de l'infrastructure avant même la réception des travaux. Les
        critiques formulées portent souvent sur la mauvaise qualité et le retard des travaux, le
        non-paiement de la main d'oeuvre, l'absence de contrôle sur le chantier.
   23. La nécessité d'un contrôle rigoureux des dossiers des entreprises et l'amélioration des critères de


                                                    - 30 -

          présélection, ainsi que la prise en considération des niveaux de compétence et des expériences pour
          l'agrément des entreprises font l'unanimité.


-Sur le suivi et le contrôle:

    24. Toutes les parties prenantes (FID, BE, entreprise, cellule de projet, commune) devraient participer
          au suivi et contrôle de la réalisation des travaux, la commune ou les bénéficiaires responsables du
          sous projet devrait disposer de cahiers de charge pour pouvoir contrôler la réalisation des travaux.
    25. Le FID devrait assurer un contrôle rigoureux de la rémunération de la main d'oeuvre locale par
          les entreprises.

                                    SYNTHESE APPUI AU SECTEUR PRIVÉ

          L'étude d'impacts du volet Appui au secteur privé menée auprès de 74 micro entreprises et de 22
Bureaux d'études disséminés dans les six Directions régionales révèle sans conteste les résultats et les
impacts positifs de l'appui au secteur privé, qui a permis un développement majeur des MPE et des
Bureaux d'études au regard :

-         de leurs capacités financières
-         de l'extension de leurs activités dans les différentes directions régionales
-         du renforcement des capacités
-         de la création d'emplois temporaires

          La collaboration avec le FID a permis aux entreprises et aux bureaux d'études de constituer un
capital de démarrage, ou de consolider leurs assises financières. La tendance a été marquée par la hausse
continue des chiffres d'affaires entre 2000 et 2003. Si initialement les MPE n'ont obtenu des marchés
qu'auprès du FID, les références et les expériences acquises grâce à la collaboration avec cet organisme ont
facilité l'extension des partenariats avec d'autres projets d'envergure. L'on observe également l'émergence
progressive de bureaux d'études et d'entreprises et de partenaires relais jusqu'au niveau des Fivondronana
dans les Directions régionales, ce qui répond aux objectifs spécifiques initiaux du projet. 10 % des MPE
enquêtées ont leur siège social au niveau des Fivondronana. Les données financières obtenues confirment
aussi l'importance des chiffres d'affaires des marchés obtenus du FID par rapport aux autres organismes,
représentant plus de 50% des chiffres d'affaires dans la majorité des cas

          Les impacts positifs du programme d'appui au secteur privé se sont aussi matérialisés par le
renforcement des capacités qui est perceptible par l'amélioration de la capacité technique, et une relative
consolidation de la capacité d'encadrement technique et organisationnelle.

          La majorité des personnels d'encadrement technique (62 entreprises/74) ont participé à des
sessions de formation techniques organisées par le FID ou par d'autres organismes, dont les effets positifs
sur les compétences techniques font l'unanimité, les plus évoqués étant : (i) l'impact sur l'amélioration de
la capacité de gestion des chantiers, (ii) une plus grande capacité d'adaptation aux exigences
administratives et techniques du FID, (iii) l'amélioration de la capacité organisationnelle, surtout le
renforcement des Départements techniques, (iv) et une amélioration de la capacité de gestion financière. En
effet, plus de 60 % des ingénieurs, des techniciens supérieurs et des chefs de chantiers des MPE
concernées par l'étude ont tous participé à des sessions de formation

          La politique de promotion des PME a favorisé la création d'emplois temporaires, d'emplois



                                                       - 31 -

permanents et leur professionnalisation.: Pour les entreprises et les BE travaillant dans les six directions
régionales, on observe une augmentation du nombre d'employés permanents, notamment pour le personnel
technique. Cette augmentation équivaut a plus de 30% pour les bureaux d'études et 25% pour les
entreprises.

        De même, le nombre d'emplois temporaires créés varie environ de 20 à 80 employés par chantier
selon les cas.

        Cependant, les capacités techniques des MPE soulèvent des doutes au niveau des communautés
bénéficiaires, ainsi que le paiement des salaires des employés temporaires qui font l'objet de nombreuses
récriminations dans les différentes régions. Ces aspects devraient faire l'objet de mesures rigoureuses de la
part des responsables du FID.




                                                     - 32 -

Additional Annex 9. Beneficiary Comments

                     Commentaires des Béneficiaires et des Partenaires du FID
                                            sur le Projet FID III.

LES PROJETS COMMUNAUTAIRES

Commune Andranomamy, province de Mahajanga (ECOLES : EPP AMBOHITSAKY)

Toutes les catégories de bénéficiaires sont satisfaites de l'approche du FID qui est venu les conseiller.
L'appui financier est très apprécié bien que l'apport des 20% paraissait trop lourd.

Le président de la cellule de projet est satisfait de la formation : acquisitions concernant les démarches à
suivre, le montage d'un projet, l'élaboration du dossier, le contrôle et suivi depuis la constitution de l'apport
bénéficiaire jusqu'à la réalisation.

Le vice président de l'Association « Ambohitsaky Tia Fandrosoana » connaissait déjà le FID. Il avait pris
part à la construction du CEG d'Andranomamy. « Il est content du FID ».

Les conditions de la Convention étaient dures à remplir notamment l'apport financier mais les bénéficiaires
voulaient cette école et tous pensent avoir honoré leurs obligations.

Commune Ambalakida, province de Mahajanga ont mentionné que (A propos de l'apport
bénéficiaire, les bénéficiaires de l' EPP ANTANAMIFAFY)

Pour combler l'apport en nature, les ménages bénéficiaires ont contribué en apport numéraire à raison de
7.500 Fmg par ménage.

La contribution numéraire est estimée très élevée mais l'école était une urgence pour les parents « Cela vaut
la peine de dépenser autant d'argent et d'énergie puisqu'il y va de l'éducation de nos enfants et de leur
avenir ».


Commune AMBANJA bénéficiaire d'une construction d'école primaire (A Antsiranana, dans le
village de Djangoa)


Les ménages bénéficiaires, les autorités communales, la présidente du Comité d'entretien et la trésorière
sont tous satisfaits des prestations du FID pour les raisons suivantes :

·        Le FID a mené une enquête sérieuse avant d'accéder à la requête.
·        Les relations avec le FID étaient bonnes.
·        L'appui financier du FID est apprécié, l'apport jugé convenable par les bénéficiaires mais malgré
tout très lourd selon le maire.



LES PROJETS CLASSIQUES

Projets réalisés en Maîtrise d'Ouvrage Délégué

Pour les habitants d' Ambodisaina, commune de Kalandy, bénéficiares d'une réhabilitation d'une piste :



                                                       - 33 -

L'appui financier du FID est apprécié par 81,81% des bénéficiaires. Le FID est perçu comme un organisme
sérieux avec qui la population aimerait travailler.

D'après le maire de Kalandy, 90% des projets dans la région sont des projets FID. « Sans le FID, il n'y
aurait de grandes réalisations dans notre région ».

Ce qui intéresse le conseiller communal, les membres du comité exécutifs et le président du comité de la
piste, c'est la dynamique économique que va générer cette piste devenue praticable grâce à l'intervention du
FID.


Commune Tsararano où un marché a été construit (Mahajanga)

Parmi 14 personnes interviewées lors de l'évaluation par les bénéficiaires, 50% ont contribué à l'apport en
numéraire variant de 20.000 Fmg à 2500 Fmg, 5 l'ont fait par « conviction », 2 par « civisme ». Quatre
hommes ont participé au transport du sable et de gravillon tous les mardi et jeudi par « solidarité » avec la
population. Deux autres enquêtés n'ont pas participé.

La majorité des bénéficiaires sont satisfaits de la qualité du nouveau marché parce qu'ils peuvent y vendre
à l'abri du soleil et sur des étals, « stocker tranquillement la vanille » (2) ou acheter parce qu'on y trouve
de tout (3)

Certains trouvent le marché esthétique, par contre, ils ne sont pas satisfaits de la qualité des travaux
réalisés : le marché est étroit, l'équipement moyen

Dans la province d'Antananarivo, Fianarantsoa et Toliara, selon l'ensemble des bénéficiaires, « le FID
aide les Communautés rurales en finançant leurs projets de développement, et les incitent à se prendre
en charge en exigeant des Apports », même si certains qualifient les procédures du FID trop compliquées
(27%).

Cependant, des réserves avaient été émises, surtout par les membres des Communes, concernant le choix
par le FID des entreprises qui doivent assurer les travaux : les Communes souhaiteraient pouvoir choisir
elles-mêmes, sinon avec le FID, les entreprises qui doivent réaliser les travaux dans leur circonscription, et
pouvoir exercer un droit de contrôle sur la qualité des travaux, à côté (ou au-dessus) des BE durant la
réalisation.

Considérant qu'elles sont les Maîtres de l'ouvrage, ce droit de regard semble légitime. Le danger qui
pourrait se présenter et que l'entreprise pourrait se retrouver sous la coupe d'individus désignés par la
Commune qui n'ont pas la capacité technique requise pour assurer un contrôle vraiment efficace et
constructif pour chacune des parties en présence.




                                                       - 34 -

- 35 -

