Report No. PID8076
Project Name                     Brazil-Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport ...   @
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Urban Transport
Project ID                       BRPE60221
Borrower(s)                      Federative Republic Of Brazil
Implementing Agency
CBTU/METROFOR
Address: CBTU-Estrada Velha da Tijuca,
77-Tijuca, CEP 20531-080-Rio de Janeiro-RJ
Contact Person: Flavio Mota Monteiro
Tel: (021) 2570-8750
Fax: (021)2208 1780
Email: piu.p@cbtu.gov.br
Metrofor-Companhia Cearense de Transportes
Metropolitanos
Address: Rua Vinte e Quatro de Maio,
60 CEP 60 020-001-CENTRO -FORTALEZA-CE
Contact Person: Luiz Eduardo Barbosa de Moraes
Tel: 85-455-7038
Fax: 85-212-4848
Email:luizeduardo@metrofor.ce.gov.br
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 5, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 13, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 4, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background :The Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR), with 3500 km2 and 2.6
million inhabitants spread irregularly over 13 individual municipalities
is dominated by the Fortaleza Municipality (FM) with 1.8 million
inhabitants. Caucaia and Maracanau are the other two important
municipalities of the FMR. The FMR concentrates roughly 78; of FMR's
population on just 9.5w of its territory. FM generates roughly 83t of
FMR's income and jobs. Each day, 3.2 million person trips take place in
the FMR of which 42t are home-to-work trips. Of those 3.2 million trips
1.36 million (42%) are by foot. Of the total motorized trips 77% are by
public transport and 23% are by auto. Of the public transport trips 78%
are by bus (private operators), 3% by suburban train    (STU/FOR), 159 by
bicycle/motorcycle and 0.49 by other modes. Of the 1.6 million trips by
public modes, about half use more than one vehicle, requiring some sort of
modal transfer to be completed. This level of urban transport activity,
dominated by the road-based motorized modes has significant impacts on the
FMR's environment. Due to its narrow streets, Fortaleza is prone to



traffic congestion, especially when accidents occur and/or cars breakdown.
There is limited space for fully segregated busways without major
expropriation. Several bus corridors have already more than 15,000
passengers/hour/direction, a level which cannot be easily handled by
reserved busways and which requires some sort of right-of-way
segregation.The main users of the public transport system are from the
Caucaia and Maracanau neighborhoods and bear the brunt of these problems:
(i) shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded buses,
(ii) long work journeys (1.5-2 hours/day for a round trip) from the
metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often more than two
modal transfers; and (c) paying over a fourth of their income towards
fares. Lack of coordination between the 2 levels of government responsible
for urban transport, particularly between the State of Ceara (SC) and the
Municipality of Fortaleza (FM), has led to poor tariff and modal
integration, lack of prioritization in urban transport investments and no
common policy on pricing and subsidies. Finally, FMR is improving its
traffic engineering and control technology to be able to cope with the
present and growing number of road-based vehicles and introduce policies
which will discourage the use of the rapidly growing use of the automobile
for home-to-work trips. In view of the above, the SC and FM
administrations have decided that improving metropolitan transport is one
of their main priorities. In urban transport, the main goals of this
administration are: to transform the existing STU/FOR suburban rail system
into a modern Metro like operation and use it as a trunk corridor fed by
bus and other modes, increasing the participation of the private sector in
the operation and investment of all urban transport systems to improve
productivity and reduce costs and introducing policies which will promote
the use of urban transport. The Federative Republic of Brazil obtained a
loan from JBIC of US$268 million on April 1997 to rehabilitate the South
Line. However, the South Line without the West line cannot alone provide
the trunk corridor required to integrate the system with the other modes.
To rehabilitate the West Line and establish the adequate infrastructure
framework for the sector, the Federative Republic of Brazil approached
the Bank for a loan which will help in achieving those objectives. The
loan received COFIEX approval in March 1998. Main Sector Issues and
Government Strategy: Key Issuesn A number of key issues will be addressed
by the project in order to improve the supply of urban transport services
and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the long
term for the FMR. They are: (a) institutional issues; (b) cost recovery
and financial management issues; (c) environmental issues; and (d)
transport planning issues.fn Institutional Issues. The most critical
institutional issues are: (a) the fine-tuning of relations between state
and municipal governments and a clear definition of their respective roles
in the financing, planning and operation of urban transport services in
accordance with the 1988 Constitution; and (b) the appropriate
modification of regulations, including the elimination of regulatory
barriers which might prevent free entry and/or competition in the market
for provision of public transport services. The Government's strategy is
to create a formal regional coordination entity empowered by the FMR for
planning, coordinating and setting priorities for new investments and
modal integration. The authorization to establish the RTCC was a condition
of appraisal of the proposed project and was met with the passage of the
State Law (Lei Complementar) No. 18, of December 29, 1999, which created
the Conselho Deliberativo da Regiao Metropolitana (CDM) de Fortaleza. For
regulatory purposes, the State has created a Regulatory Agency (ARCE) for
-2 -



all services (in energy, transport and sanitation) concessioned or
delegated to the private sector.n Cost Recovery and Financial Management
Issues. The need to address cost recovery from a more commercially
oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which cover at least the
long-run variable costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation
of equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided; (b) controlling
fare evasion; (c) appropriate peak and off-peak pricing; (d) improving the
financial management of the systems through wide-ranging cost cutting
measures, staff rationalization policies, and employing more financial
managers to run the mass transit systems; and (e) revamping the funding
mechanisms in order to guarantee adequate financing for the implementation
of new mass transit systems and the sustainability of the existing
systems. To help achieve these goals, the Government of the State of Ceara
(GSC) has embarked on an aggressive campaign to promote private sector
participation in the urban transport sector and will carry out the
rehabilitation/modernization cum concessioning of the new rail based
system. n Environmental Issues. Air pollution, noise, traffic congestion,
and road accidents are major environmental issues to be addressed in the
FMR. The reduction of the environmental impacts of urban congestion and
noise pollution in the urban area could be done through: (a) the
allocation of responsibilities across government levels for the
enforcement of the law and definition of tougher standards; (b) the use of
cleaner and quieter systems; (c) where appropriate, the use of
non-motorized transport; (d) improved traffic management and control; and
(e) the strengthening of traffic safety education and the enforcement of
traffic regulations. As part of a long-term strategy, the Government is
reviewing the potential role of market-based incentives to address
pollution as well as the implementation, to the extent possible, of the
polluter-pay principle to minimize the fiscal burden implied by de facto
government subsidies to polluters. The contribution of this project to
improvement of air quality related to transport is modest. However, it
will lay the foundations for future work.n Transport Planning Issues. The
need to strengthen FMR's transportation planning, traffic data base,
traffic management, and economic and financial evaluation of new
investments could be met if there is a formal coordinating agency for
urban transport in the metropolitan region. This agency should be equipped
with a battery of sketch planning, demand and supply models which will
test different land use, air quality, and urban transport scenarios.
Furthermore, an integrated land use, urban transport, and air-quality
strategy will be updated and periodically revised. The institutional
component of the proposed project has provisions to finance this type of
models and supporting studies.Government StrategyThe Federal Government
strategy, insofar as the CBTU is concerned, is to transfer the ownership,
management and responsibility of that system to the respective states
where CBTU's subdivisions are located. This is a program started in 1992
with Bank financing and is in line with the Brazilian Constitution which
states that all urban transport should be the responsibility of the local
(State or municipal) authorities. In return for the transfer of the system
to the States, the Federal government is willing to contribute to its
rehabilitation and finance extensions or a new system which will allow the
State to serve a growing urban transport demand at the lowest or no
operating subsidy. The State's strategy for the FMR is anchored in 4
pillars: a) to establish with the municipalities, operators and users a
regional transport coordination commission; b) to develop and update on a
periodic basis, an integrated land use, urban transport and air quality
-3 -



strategy; c) to introduce financing mechanisms which will guarantee the
long-term sustainability of the urban transport systems; and d) to
promote progressive private sector participation in the investment and
operations management of those systems. The rationale for State's support
to the FMR is the following: the FMR is the 7th biggest metropolitan
region of the country in terms of population and is already experiencing
traffic congestion problems in its 3 main corridors. At the same time,
the Federal Government is decentralizing its STU-FOR subdivision to the
State as part of the program initiated with Bank financing in 1992. The
opportunity here to rehabilitate and modernize a rail-based system under a
turnkey with private sector participation (PSP) in operations and
management and to privatize other modes which serve the FMR is in
agreement with the Urban Transport Strategy prepared by the Bank in 1992
and updated annually since then. Furthermore, the overall program of which
this project is a subset, will allow the implementation of an integrated
urban transport, air quality and land use strategy and will focus
resources on traffic management and area traffic restraint policies which
may help in controlling the explosive automobile traffic
growth.Institutional FrameworkThere are at present three main government
bodies dealing with the urban transport sector in the FMR: (a) the State
Secretariat of Infrastructure of the State of Ceara (Secretaria de
Infraestrutura do Estado do Ceara - SEINFRA) which is responsible for
regulating (market entry and exit, tariff setting, safety and quality
control) all passenger transport which operates in more than one
municipality as well as the State roads department . It oversees the
intermunicipal bus lines and intercity bus terminals. It also oversees
urban development. The State has established a regulatory agency for
public services in energy, transport and sanitation concessioned out or
delegated to the private sector (Agoncia Reguladora de Servi6os Publicos
Delegados do Estado do Ceara - ARCE). The transport regulatory functions
of SEINFRA are slowly being transferred to ARCE; (b) the Empresa de
Transito e Transporte Urbano S.A (ETTUSA), public/private partnership
which on behalf of the Fortaleza municipality regulates (market entry and
exit, tariff setting, safety and quality control) all the municipal bus
transport, taxis and vans; and is responsible for traffic management and
control in the metropolitan region. Finally CBTU, a federal enterprise
under the Ministry of Transport, runs the existing commuter rail system
(STU/FOR). For this rail system the fares are set by the Federal
Government. Since three levels of government have been formulating
policies and regulating urban transport without a formal coordinating
arrangement, there has been a lack of consistency in the fares charged by
similar or competing modes, duplication of investments, absence of
criteria to prioritize investments, and only embryonic modal integration
of the urban transport system. This has led to several bus lines
continuing to operate in corridors where the railway is more suited, the
lack of promotion of hub-and-spoke services so as to encourage feeder
services, and disparate subsidy policies which are often based on
non-economic considerations. This project will be one more step towards
effective integration of the systems.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the proposed Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project
are to: (a) improve the quality of public urban transport in the Fortaleza
Metropolitan Region (FMR) by enhancing the development of a fully
integrated urban transport system under the coordination of a Regional
- 4 -



Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) and rehabilitating the Metrofor
West Line; (b) transfer the Metrofor system from the Federal to the State
government; and (c) promote the private sector participation in the
operation and management of the Metrofor system (West and South
lines).Objective (a) would be achieved by financing infrastructure and
equipment which are necessary to rehabilitate the West Line of the
Metrofor system and ensuring its integration with buses and non-motorized
transport; and by setting up the regional transport coordination
commission in charge of coordinating and recommending common policies on
pricing, financing, and project evaluation in the FMR. Objectives (b) and
(c) would be achieved by decentralizing the system from the Federal to the
State government; and subsequently inviting bids through competitive
procedures from the private sector for the operations and management of
the Metrofor system (Lines West and South). Subsidiary objectives would be
the improvement of the mobility of the low-income population who are the
main users of public transport and the reduction of the environmental
impacts (mainly air quality and noise) on the FMR due to road-based
vehicles use.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The main value-added by the Bank in this project is its role as promoter
of physical and tariff integration in the FMR as well as an honest broker
to provide more credibility and ensure accountability in the
decentralization and PSP process. To date, the Bank has accumulated
significant experience in assisting the States of Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Minas Gerais, and Pernambuco to take over the operations and
management of their respective CBTU subdivision located within their
jurisdictions, improving the operational and financial performance of
these entities, reducing the level of operational subsidies, and
encouraging concession arrangements.
4. Description
Part A is an Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component to: (i)
rehabilitate/modernize the West line of the Metrofor system under a
turnkey with PSP in operations and management contract to complement the
South line, which is being financed by JBIC and is under rehabilitation.
This will also include building and rehabilitating the transfer stations
between the metro, buses, autos, and non-motorized transport; and
(ii) finance the Project Management and project supervision consultants;
Part B is an Institutional and Policy Development Component to : (i)
support the decentralization to the State of Metrofor through technical
assistance if necessary; (ii) strengthen the RTCC for the Fortaleza
Metropolitan Region (FMR); and (iii) prepare an integrated Transport
Policy, Land Use, and Air Quality Management strategy for the FMR to meet
both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound
cost-recovery tariff, and subsidy policies.
Private Sector Concession
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 91.2
IBRD 85
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) 17.6
- 5-



Total Project Cost 193.8
6. Implementation
The decentralization of CBTU operations and assets in Fortaleza is
scheduled to be completed during 2001 and is a condition of effectiveness
of this loan. Metrofor will be designated as the project implementation
agency. In implementing this project, Metrofor will be able to steadily
increase its managerial and administrative capacity. Nevertheless,
Metrofor will receive considerable support from CBTU, which has managed
five previous World Bank loans to the urban transport sector. Since this
is a federal loan, CBTU, one of our most experienced implementation agents
in Brazil, will be in charge of disbursements and will assist Metrofor in
the procurement under the Project.
7. Sustainability
PSP in the operations and management of Metrofor. The successful
completion of the proposed bids inviting the private sector to operate and
manage Metrofor would bolster sustainability by imposing greater
discipline in limiting system expenditures, pursuing more effective
revenue maximization strategies, and limiting political interference.
Private sector participation would also ensure adequate maintenance
levels, and achieve higher train availability rates. The existence of a
strong regulatory agency suggests that enforcement of the compliance with
the contracts with the private sector will be guaranteed.Establishment of
the RTCC. The strengthening of the Regional Transport Coordination
Commission (RTCC) would improve coordination between the State, municipal
governments, and transport service providers and allow the discussion of
urban transport issues common to the region such as automated ticketing,
definition of trunk corridors and feeder lines, organization of bus lines,
tariff harmonization, and investment priorities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank Strategy. Since 1992, the Bank has supported the rehabilitation and
decentralization of CBTU subdivisions to the State governments in Sao
Paulo (Ln. 3457-BR) and Rio de Janeiro (Ln. 3633-BR). Loan 3457-BR closed
on March 31, 1998, having met its main objectives of (i) supporting the
transfer the CBTU-SP to the State of Sao Paulo to enhance its management
and operations; (ii) introducing institutional, organizational, and
financial policy reforms to ensure its long-term financial sustainability,
including improved multimodal integration, and expanded capacity; and
(iii) contributing to poverty alleviation and environmental improvement.
Loan 3633-BR, which had similar objectives, closed at the end of 2000. In
June 1995, the Board approved two more loans (Lns. 3915-BR and 3916-BR)
for US$102.0 million and US$99.0 million to finance the decentralization
of the urban rail systems in Recife and Belo Horizonte, respectively.
These loans were declared effective in April 1996 and are progressing
satisfactorily. Follow-up loans in Sao Paulo (4312-BR) and Rio de Janeiro
(4291-BR), which became effective recently, have attempted to introduce
private sector participation in the decentralized commuter rail systems -
CPTM and Flumitrens, respectively. Flumitrens has been concessioned out to
the private sector in 1998. CPTM is scheduled to be concessioned out in
2001.Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:To build
upon the experience of previous urban transport and urban projects around
the world, an ex-post analysis of Project Completion Reports and
Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PAR) was undertaken. This review recognized
- 6 -



the trends and changes in project design after the PCRs/PARs were
completed. The main lessons identified and incorporated in the design of
the proposed project are: Institutional Strengthening. The organizations
dealing with urban transport at the federal, state and municipal levels
should be reorganized and strengthened. Studies included in the
institutional component must be carefully monitored and translated into
action plans, which the Borrower must implement. The proposed project
jump-started the creation of the RTCC and completion of critical
studies.Lack of timely counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace
of project implementation and in some cases has led to cancellation of
components. An effort must be made to ensure that the adequate provisions
of counterpart funds are included in the annual budgets of federal and
state enterprises. The Federative Republic of Brazil and the State of
Ceara (South Line) have included the project in their CYQO and CY01
budgets. Slow implementation has been a frequently occurring theme. The
reasons have included a lack of familiarity with Bank procedures,
overoptimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering designs
at appraisal, changes in political commitment, and lack of counterpart
funds. These problems would be mitigated in the proposed project by such
measures as: (i) strengthening capacity of operating agencies for
financial management and application of Bank procedures; (ii) requiring
the submission of final engineering design for the first year of project
works prior to negotiations; and (iii) providing with technical assistance
as needed.Decentralization Followed by Concession. Despite the fact that
Metrofor is better placed than CBTU to respond to local realities, as a
public sector entity it will likely be constrained by political
interference and bureaucratic red tape as well as depend upon operating
subsidies. These factors can be mitigated by the transfer of operations
and management through a concession to the private sector. Otherwise,
there is little motivation for government-appointed managers to reduce
subsidies and improve the level of service offered. The State of Ceara
indicated that it agrees with this strategy. Bank lending operations in
the rail sector in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Recife and
Salvador have made private participation a critical objective of project
implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Environmental Clearances.   SEMACE, the State
Environmental Agency, has already issued the license necessary to proceed
with project works because this license for both the West and South Lines
was required when the loan with JBIC for the South Line was signed. The
Bank asked the Borrower for an update of the environmental assessment
report and a full resettlement plan. Both were submitted to LCSES as part
of the conditions for appraisal. The Environmental Assessment Report of
the West Line was prepared by independent consultants and included an
Environmental Management Plan, an Implementation Procedures Manual for
dealing with environmental impacts to be attached to all bidding
documents and a full resettlement plan. The Environmental Management Plan
emphasizes the mitigatory measures to minimize anticipated impacts, the
monitoring structure which will follow up and measure the impacts. The
impact of the existing project on the environment is positive because, if
the Metrofor system works as planned, it will divert bus riders to rail
and decrease the number of bus-kilometers and consequently contribute to a
-7 -



reduction of emissions. The amount of resettlement necessary is also
modest (see below) although some expropriation will be required when grade
crossings are converted to grade separations. As a result of these
factors, the project was given a "B" rating. Air and Noise Pollution.
Motor vehicle-generated air pollution is increasing with increased auto
ownership and congestion in the FMR and may become a major and growing
threat to public health. Abatement of air pollution can decrease
morbidity and premature death due to respiratory and cardiovascular
illness, and improvements in the overall well being and quality of life of
the population. Noise pollution generated by buses and automobiles would
most likely decrease due to a diversion of commuters from buses to
electrified rail-based systems. During construction of the Metrofor
system, it is expected that, in some cases, the surrounding areas will be
temporarily affected due to noise, dust, vibration, street closure and
excavation. Careful management of construction to minimize impacts on the
surrounding area and re-routing road-based traffic will minimize such
problems. A manual of environmental procedures for implementation of the
project was prepared by Metrofor and will be part of the bidding
documents. The post-construction impact on traffic congestion, bus
overcrowding, and vehicle accidents is expected to be positive and
long-lasting. Thus, the project would have a net beneficial impact on the
environment. The system would help relieve congestion in a major
transport corridor, resulting in lower emissions of pollutants per
vehicle-kilometer.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jorge M. Rebelo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:(202) 473 9323
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was prepared by the InfoShop during the week ending December 14,2001
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec.14,2001\P060221.txt
December 11, 2001 10:50 AM
-8-



