Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20198-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR98.6 MILLION
(US$85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
November 6, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais (R$)
R$1 = US$(0.50-0.58)
US$1 = R$1.7-2.0 (April 99-Jan.01)
US$ 1=EUR 1.16
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTP           -    National Association for Public Transport
(AssociaCdo Nacional de Transportes Pablicos)
ARCE                State of Ceara Regulatory Agency
BOT            -    Build-Operate-Transfer
CBTU           -    Brazilian Urban Train Company
(Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
STU/FOR        -    Fortaleza subdivision of the Brazilian Urban Train Company
CE             -    State Government of Ceara
EMU            -    Electric Multiple Units
ETITUSA        -    Empresa de Transito e Transporte Urbano S.A.
FM             -    Municipality of Fortaleza
(Prefeitura de Fortaleza)
FMR            -    Fortaleza Metropolitan Region
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
IERR           -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
JBIC           -    Japan Bank for International Cooperation, formerly JEXIM
METROFOR    -    Ceara Metropolitan Transport Company
-    (Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos)
NCB            -    National Competitive Bidding
NPV            -    Net Present Value
PAR            -    Performance Audit Report
PCR            -    Project Completion Report
PCU            -    Project Coordination Unit
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
PSP            -    Private Sector Participation
QCBS           -    Quality Cost-Based System
RTCC           -    Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SEMACE         -    Cearl State Environmental Agency
SEINFRA        -    Secretariat of Infrastructure of Ceara
(Secretaria de Infra-estrutura do Ceard)
SC             -    State of Ceara
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:    Dainy M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jorge Rebelo



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                            13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                        14
5. Environmental                                                                       15
6. Social                                                                               16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      19
2. Critical risks                                                                      20



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    21
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           21
2. Other                                                                             21
,H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          35
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           60
MAP(S)
IBRD 30829



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: November 6, 2001                            Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas            Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P060221                                Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Private Sector; Transport; Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ 1 Credit   [ Grant       [ ]Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): EUR 98.6 m (equivalent to US$85m)
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 6                           Years to maturity: 10
Commitment fee: 0.85% p.a.the first 4 years;0.75% p.a.  Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       76.36          14.84         91.20
IBRD                                                            0.00          85.00          85.00
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             15.60           2.00          17.60
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                         91.96         101.84         193.80
Borrower: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Responsible agency: CBTU/METROFOR
Address: CBTU-Estrada Velha da Tijuca, 77-Tijuca, CEP 20531-080-Rio de Janeiro-RJ
Contact Person: Flavio Mota Monteiro
Tel: (021) 2570-8750           Fax: (021)2208 1780            Email: piu.p(cbtu.gov.br
Other Agency(ies):
Metrofor-Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos
Address: Rua Vinte e Quatro de Maio, 60 CEP 60 020-001-CENTRO -FORTALEZA-CE
Contact Person: Luiz Eduardo Barbosa de Moraes
Tel: 85-455-7038            Fax: 85-212-4848            Email: luizeduardogmetrofor.ce.gov.br
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003        2004      2005       2006
Annual   10.00       20.00      20.00      25.00      10.00
Cumulative    10.00      30.00      50.00      75.00     85.00
Project implementation period: FY 2002-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2001  Expected closing date:  03/31/2006
OCS PAD Fctm  pa, M.,, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the proposed Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project are to: (a) improve the quality of
public urban transport in the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR) by enhancing the development of a
fully integrated urban transport system under the coordination of a Regional Transport Coordination
Commission (RTCC) and rehabilitating the Metrofor West Line; (b) transfer the Metrofor system from the
Federal to the State government; and (c) promote the private sector participation in the operation and
management of the Metrofor system (West and South lines).
Objective (a) would be achieved by financing infrastructure and equipment which are necessary to
rehabilitate the West Line of the Metrofor system and ensuring its integration with buses and
non-motorized transport; and by setting up the regional transport coordination commission in charge of
coordinating and recommending common policies on pricing, financing, and project evaluation in the FMR.
Objectives (b) and (c) would be achieved by decentralizing the system from the Federal to the State
government; and subsequently inviting bids through competitive procedures from the private sector for the
operations and management of the Metrofor system (Lines West and South). Subsidiary objectives would
be the improvement of the mobility of the low-income population who are the main users of public
transport and the reduction of the environmental impacts (mainly air quality and noise) on the FMR due to
road-based vehicles use.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key perfornance indicators measure the modal integration objective by estimating the % of stations
where bus/rail integration is provided, the congestion related objective by measuring the increase in the rail
share in urban transport motorized trips, and the accessibility of low-income user objective by measuring
the generalized cost of travel (travel time plus fare plus reliability).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20160-BR Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 2000
The current Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil was approved by the Board on March 30, 2000 (Document
nbr. R2000-25(IFC/R2000-34). A progress report (22116-BR) was discussed by the Board on May 24,
2001 (Document nbr. R2001-0057(IFC/R2001-0069).The five pillars that support the overall poverty
reduction strategy of the CAS are: (a) targeted interventions to reduce poverty, among others through the
provision of urban services to the poor, (b) sustainable fiscal adjustment, among others through reform of
public enterprises, (c) renewed growth, among others through private sector participation in infrastructure
provision, (d) improved government effectiveness, and (e) effective environmental management. The
proposed project constitutes an important part of the program to meet the CAS objectives, in particular in
terms of growth, fiscal adjustment and targeted provision of services to the poor. It would: (a) promote
reforms and financial viability of public enterprises, including the concession of state-owned urban
transport agencies to the private sector; (b) increase the efficiency of infrastructure investments; (c)
encourage economic growth by improving efficiency in the metropolitan area and (d) contribute to poverty
alleviation by improving accessibility of low-income segments of the population to jobs, educational and
health facilities.
-2 -



The project would finance the infrastructure and equipment, necessary to complete the rehabilitation of the
Metrofor's West Line and improve its integration with the South Line, buses, autos, and non-motorized
transport. In addition, the proposed project would assist the State Government of Ceara to take over a
federally-owned system and subsequently invite bids from the private sector for Metrofor's operations and
management, which would lower system expenditures and subsidies as well as reduce political interference
and bureaucratic red tape. Ancillary objectives would be the improved mobility of the low-income
population who are the main users of public transport as well as decreased air and noise pollution due to
lower road-based vehicle use. The proposed project is also a follow-up to the efforts started with the CBTU
Transport Decentralization Projects which aimed at decentralizing the federally-owned CBTU to the States
to allow for more effective modal and tariff integration. The proposed project is also anchored on the
following economic and sector work: a) Urban Transportation: Issues and Options, which laid the
foundations for the CBTU decentralization program; and b) Essentials for Sustainable Urban Transport in
Brazil's Large Metropolitan Areas. This economic and sector work was widely discussed within the Bank
and with our Brazilian counterparts. They have adopted b) as their urban transport strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background:
The Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR), with 3500 km2 and 2.6 million inhabitants spread irregularly
over 13 individual municipalities is dominated by the Fortaleza Municipality (FM) with 1.8 million
inhabitants. Caucaia and Maracanaui are the other two important municipalities of the FMR. The FMR
concentrates roughly 78% of FMR's population on just 9.5% of its territory. FM generates roughly 83%
of FMR's income and jobs. Each day, 3.2 million person trips take place in the FMR of which 42% are
home-to-work trips. Of those 3.2 million trips 1.36 million (42%) are by foot. Of the total motorized trips
77% are by public transport and 23% are by auto. Of the public transport trips 78% are by bus (private
operators), 3% by suburban train (STU/FOR), 15% by bicycle/motorcycle and 0.4% by other modes. Of
the 1.6 million trips by public modes, about half use more than one vehicle, requiring some sort of modal
transfer to be completed. This level of urban transport activity, dominated by the road-based motorized
modes has significant impacts on the FMR's environment. Due to its narrow streets, Fortaleza is prone to
traffic congestion, especially when accidents occur and/or cars breakdown. There is limited space for fully
segregated busways without major expropriation. Several bus corridors have already more than 15,000
passengers/hour/direction, a level which cannot be easily handled by reserved busways and which requires
some sort of right-of-way segregation.
The main users of the public transport system are from the Caucaia and Maracanaui neighborhoods and
bear the brunt of these problems: (i) shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded buses,
(ii) long work joumeys (1.5-2 hours/day for a round trip) from the metropolitan periphery to the urban
centers, with often more than two modal transfers; and (c) paying over a fourth of their income towards
fares. Lack of coordination between the 2 levels of government responsible for urban transport,
particularly between the State of Ceara (SC) and the Municipality of Fortaleza (FM), has led to poor
tariff and modal integration, lack of prioritization in urban transport investments and no common policy
on pricing and subsidies. Finally, FMR is improving its traffic engineering and control technology to be
able to cope with the present and growing number of road-based vehicles and introduce policies which will
discourage the use of the rapidly growing use of the automobile for home-to-work trips. In view of the
above, the SC and FM administrations have decided that improving metropolitan transport is one of their
main priorities. In urban transport, the main goals of this administration are: to transform the existing
STU/FOR suburban rail system into a modem Metro like operation and use it as a trunk corridor fed by
- 3 -



bus and other modes, increasing the participation of the private sector in the operation and investment of
all urban transport systems to improve productivity and reduce costs and introducing policies which will
promote the use of urban transport. The Federative Republic of Brazil obtained a loan from JBIC of
US$268 million on April 1997 to rehabilitate the South Line. However, the South Line without the West
line cannot alone provide the trunk corridor required to integrate the system with the other modes. To
rehabilitate the West Line and establish the adequate infrastructure framework for the sector, the
Federative Republic of Brazil approached the Bank for a loan which will help in achieving those
objectives. The loan received COFIEX approval in March 1998.
Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Key Issues
*     A number of key issues will be addressed by the project in order to improve the supply of urban
transport services and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the long term for the
FMR. They are: (a) institutional issues; (b) cost recovery and financial management issues; (c)
environmental issues; and (d) transport planning issues.
Institutional Issues. The most critical institutional issues are: (a) the fine-tuning of relations
between state and municipal governments and a clear definition of their respective roles in the financing,
planning and operation of urban transport services in accordance with the 1988 Constitution; and (b) the
appropriate modification of regulations, including the elimination of regulatory barriers which might
prevent free entry and/or competition in the market for provision of public transport services. The
Government's strategy is to create a fornal regional coordination entity empowered by the FMR for
planning, coordinating and setting priorities for new investments and modal integration. The authorization
to establish the RTCC was a condition of appraisal of the proposed project and was met with the passage
of the State Law (Lei Complementar) No. 18, of December 29, 1999, which created the Conselho
Deliberativo da Regiao Metropolitana (CDM) de Fortaleza. For regulatory purposes, the State has created
a Regulatory Agency (ARCE) for all services (in energy, transport and sanitation) concessioned or
delegated to the private sector.
Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The need to address cost recovery from a more
commercially oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which cover at least the long-run variable costs
(defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation of equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided;
(b) controlling fare evasion; (c) appropriate peak and off-peak pricing; (d) improving the financial
management of the systems through wide-ranging cost cutting measures, staff rationalization policies, and
employing more financial managers to run the mass transit systems; and (e) revamping the funding
mechanisms in order to guarantee adequate financing for the implementation of new mass transit systems
and the sustainability of the existing systems. To help achieve these goals, the Government of the State of
Ceara (GSC) has embarked on an aggressive campaign to promote private sector participation in the urban
transport sector and will carry out the rehabilitation/modernization cum concessioning of the new rail
based system.
Environmental Issues. Air pollution, noise, traffic congestion, and road accidents are major
environmental issues to be addressed in the FMR. The reduction of the environmental impacts of urban
congestion and noise pollution in the urban area could be done through: (a) the allocation of responsibilities
across government levels for the enforcement of the law and definition of tougher standards; (b) the use of
cleaner and quieter systems; (c) where appropriate, the use of non-motorized transport; (d) improved traffic
management and control; and (e) the strengthening of traffic safety education and the enforcement of traffic
regulations. As part of a long-term strategy, the Government is reviewing the potential role of market-based
- 4 -



incentives to address pollution as well as the implementation, to the extent possible, of the polluter-pay
principle to minimize the fiscal burden implied by de facto government subsidies to polluters. The
contribution of this project to improvement of air quality related to transport is modest. However, it will lay
the foundations for future work.
Transport Planning Issues. The need to strengthen FMR's transportation planning, traffic data
base, traffic management, and economic and financial evaluation of new investments could be met if there
is a formal coordinating agency for urban transport in the metropolitan region. This agency should be
equipped with a battery of sketch planning, demand and supply models which will test different land use,
air quality, and urban transport scenarios. Furthermore, an integrated land use, urban transport, and
air-quality strategy will be updated and periodically revised. The institutional component of the proposed
project has provisions to finance this type of models and supporting studies.
Government Strategy
The Federal Government strategy, insofar as the CBTU is concerned, is to transfer the ownership,
management and responsibility of that system to the respective states where CBTU's subdivisions are
located. This is a program started in 1992 with Bank financing and is in line with the Brazilian Constitution
which states that all urban transport should be the responsibility of the local (State or municipal)
authorities. In return for the transfer of the system to the States, the Federal government is willing to
contribute to its rehabilitation and finance extensions or a new system which will allow the State to serve a
growing urban transport demand at the lowest or no operating subsidy.
The State's strategy for the FMR is anchored in 4 pillars: a) to establish with the municipalities, operators
and users a regional transport coordination commission; b) to develop and update on a periodic basis, an
integrated land use, urban transport and air quality strategy; c) to introduce financing mechanisms which
will guarantee the long-term sustainability of the urban transport systems; and d) to promote progressive
private sector participation in the investment and operations management of those systems. The rationale
for State's support to the FMR is the following: the FMR is the 7th biggest metropolitan region of the
country in terms of population and is already experiencing traffic congestion problems in its 3 main
corridors. At the same time, the Federal Government is decentralizing its STU-FOR subdivision to the
State as part of the program initiated with Bank financing in 1992. The opportunity here to rehabilitate and
modernize a rail-based system under a turnkey with private sector participation (PSP) in operations and
management and to privatize other modes which serve the FMR is in agreement with the Urban Transport
Strategy prepared by the Bank in 1992 and updated annually since then. Furthermore, the overall program
of which this project is a subset, will allow the implementation of an integrated urban transport, air quality
and land use strategy and will focus resources on traffic management and area traffic restraint policies
which may help in controlling the explosive automobile traffic growth.
Institutional Framework
There are at present three main government bodies dealing with the urban transport sector in the FMR: (a)
the State Secretariat of Infrastructure of the State of Ceara (Secretaria de Infraestrutura do Estado do
Ceara - SEINFRA) which is responsible for regulating (market entry and exit, tariff setting, safety and
quality control) all passenger transport which operates in more than one municipality as well as the State
roads department . It oversees the intermunicipal bus lines and intercity bus terminals. It also oversees
urban development. The State has established a regulatory agency for public services in energy, transport
and sanitation concessioned out or delegated to the private sector (Agencia Reguladora de Servicos
- 5-



Puiblicos Delegados do Estado do Ceara - ARCE). The transport regulatory functions of SEINFRA are
slowly being transferred to ARCE; (b) the Empresa de Transito e Transporte Urbano S.A (ETTUSA),
public/private partnership which on behalf of the Fortaleza municipality regulates (market entry and exit,
tariff setting, safety and quality control) all the municipal bus transport, taxis and vans; and is responsible
for traffic management and control in the metropolitan region. Finally CBTU, a federal enterprise under the
Ministry of Transport, runs the existing commuter rail system (STU/FOR). For this rail system the fares
are set by the Federal Government.
Since three levels of government have been formulating policies and regulating urban transport without a
formal coordinating arrangement, there has been a lack of consistency in the fares charged by similar or
competing modes, duplication of investments, absence of criteria to prioritize investments, and only
embryonic modal integration of the urban transport system. This has led to several bus lines continuing to
operate in corridors where the railway is more suited, the lack of promotion of hub-and-spoke services so
as to encourage feeder services, and disparate subsidy policies which are often based on non-economic
considerations. This project will be one more step towards effective integration of the systems.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Institutional Issues. As required as part of project preparation, the establishment of a Regional Transport
Coordination Commission (RTCC) was authorized under the proposed project to provide a common
transport coordination and planning forum for the Ceara State Government, the municipalities of Fortaleza,
Aquiraz, Caucaia, Eusebio, Maracanau, Maranguape, Itaitinga, Guaiiiba, Pacatuba, Pacajus, Chorozinho,
Sao Goncalo do Amarante and Horizonte, and transport service providers in the region. The precursor of
this RTCC, called Camara Tecnica de Transportes, is part of the Conselho Deliberativo da Regiao
Metropolitana (CDM) de Fortaleza which was created on December 29, 1999 by a state law to deal with
all metropolitan aspects common to all the FMR's municipalities and to approve and update the Master
Development Urban Plan for the region. It is already operational and will be strengthened from a forum for
the discussion of regional transport issues to a coordinating body empowered to guide transport planning
and coordination for the FMR.
Private Sector Issues. The ongoing decentralization is the first step in the transfer of the Metrofor system
to the private sector. Inviting bids from the private sector for the operations and management of Metrofor
after the decentralization is part of the strategy of the State to minimize government's interference in the
company. Like other major state-owned enterprises, Metrofor suffers from political interference and
bureaucracy in procurement decisions. In supporting the transfer of operations and maintenance of
Metrofor to the private sector, the proposed project would address these issues. Moreover, private sector
participation would improve the level of service offered and introduce a more commercial orientation,
resulting in a reduction of operating subsidies, improved revenue generation, and the introduction of
cost-reduction measures.
Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The proposed project would divert bus passenger to
the rail system and hence would increase both revenue and cost recovery for Metrofor and increasing
private sector interest in the Metrofor concession. The State government will be willing to increase its share
of investment in the system to ensure that, with the proposed tariff, the private sector can have an
acceptable return on equity.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total      (US$M)  financing
Part A is an Infrastructure and    Urban Transport   173.20      89.4      82.00      96.5
Equipment Investment Component to:
(i) rehabilitate/modernize the West line
of the Metrofor system under a
turnkey with PSP in operations and
management contract to complement
the South line, which is being financed
by JBIC and is under rehabilitation.
This will also include building and
rehabilitating the transfer stations
between the metro, buses, autos, and
non-motorized transport; and
(ii) finance the Project Management
and project supervision consultants;
Part B is an Institutional and Policy  Urban Transport  2.15      1.1       2.15       2.5
Development Component to : (i)
support the decentralization to the State
of Metrofor through technical
assistance if necessary; (ii) strengthen
the RTCC for the Fortaleza
Metropolitan Region (FMR); and (iii)
prepare an integrated Transport Policy,
Land Use, and Air Quality
Management strategy for the FMR to
meet both transport and air quality
targets and to introduce sound
cost-recovery tariff, and subsidy
policies.
Private Sector Concession                             17.60       9.1       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                 192.95      99.6      84.15      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.85       0.4       0.85        1.0
Total Financing Required                   193.80     100.0     85.00      100.0
(a) Infrastructure and Equipment component to: (i) rehabilitate/modernize the West line of the Metrofor
system under a turnkey with PSP in operations and management contract to complement the South line,
which is being financed by JBIC and is under rehabilitation. This will also include building and
- 7-



rehabilitating the transfer stations between the metro, buses, autos, and non-motorized transport; and (ii)
finance the Project Management and project supervision consultants.
(b) Institutional and Policy Development component to: (i) support the decentralization to the State of
Metrofor to the private sector through technical assistance if necessary; (ii) strengthen the RTCC for the
Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR); and (iii) prepare an integrated Transport Policy, Land Use, and Air
Quality Management strategy for the FMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce
sound cost-recovery tariff, and subsidy policies.
The funds from the private sector participation in the system are the minimum amount expected as part of
the fee to operate the system and will be used towards additional trains to improve the level of service
provided by Metrofor in the optimistic scenario. These funds are in addition to those required in the basic
project to satisfy the demand estimated in the base case scenario. In case the full private sector management
and operations of the METROFOR does not materialize, the system can still meet the optimistic scenario at
an acceptable level of service.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
To improve planning and coordinate and prevent investment duplication, the project would support the
establishment and strengthening of an RTCC for urban transport where the State of Ceara, the municipality
of Fortaleza, neighboring municipalities, and transport operators are represented under a common forum.
The increased private sector participation or concession planned for the operation and management of the
METROFOR system is a major institutional reform.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project beneficiaries are the residents of the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR), particularly
low-income households (earning up to four minimum salaries), who account for about half of the area
population and are major users of public transport. The primary benefit will stem from an improved level
of service offered and greater accessibility to Metrofor stations. The users of private autos will likely
benefit from a reduction in bus congestion. FMR residents will also benefit from decreased air and noise
pollution due to lower road-based vehicle use.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The decentralization of CBTU operations and assets in Fortaleza is scheduled to be completed during 2001
and is a condition of effectiveness of this loan. Metrofor will be designated as the project implementation
agency. In implementing this project, Metrofor will be able to steadily increase its managerial and
administrative capacity. Nevertheless, Metrofor will receive considerable support from CBTU, which has
managed five previous World Bank loans to the urban transport sector. Since this is a federal loan, CBTU,
one of our most experienced implementation agents in Brazil, will be in charge of disbursements and will
assist Metrofor in the procurement under the Project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following technical alternatives were compared during preparation: (a) do-nothing; (b) development of
a busway/trolleybusway system serving the same corridor inside and outside the rail right-of-way; and (c)
rehabilitation/modernization of the West line of the Metrofor system as proposed. The do-nothing option
was rejected due to increased congestion and demand levels expected. The development of a busway
- 8 -



outside the right-of-way was rejected because it is not feasible to find a fully segregated bus corridor from
Caucaia to the CBD, unless major expropriation and resettlement takes place. Furthermore the maximum
practical capacity for a corridor of this type would be in the range of 17-20,000 passengers per hour per
direction in the peak period (at speeds up to 25 km/hr) and the system is expected to transport more later
on. In addition, for a user going to a destination in the South line, a busway on the West line would mean
one more transfer to rail (in the South Line), a strong disincentive to use the South Line of the system. The
possibility of a busway within the West line rail right-of-way was also examined but was not physically
possible in sections of the right-of-way due to existing rail freight lines. The proposed
rehabilitation/modemization of the West Line was selected for further evaluation because: a) it is an
existing right-of-way and will not require major resettlement and expropriation; b) it is the logical
complement to the ongoing modemization of the South Line which without it will not serve the purpose of
allowing cross-regional trips without another modal transfer; c) it is in the shortest route between Caucaia
and the CBD (19 km) and d) it has the highest capacity to accommodate the increase in demand expected in
the next twenty years, at speeds over 40 km/hr. Furthermore the West and South lines together form in fact
a trunk corridor to where most of the intermunicipal (metropolitan) bus lines and some of the municipal bus
lines, in the area of influence, can be rerouted as feeders.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Decentralization of rail services from    Sao Paulo Metropolitan       S              S
federal to state government with system Transport Decentralization
rehabilitation                      (Ln. 3457-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from    Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan  S              S
federal to state government with system Transport Decentralization
rehabilitation                      (Ln. 3633-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from    Recife Metropolitan Transport  S            S
federal to state government with system Decentralization (Ln. 3915-BR)
extension
Decentralization of rail services from    Belo Horizonte Metropolitan  S              S
federal to state government with system Transport Decentralization
extension                          (Ln. 3916-BR)
Increase private sector participation in  Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit  S              S
the decentralized metropolitan rail  Project (Ln. 4291-BR)
agency, Flumitrens
Increase private sector participation in  Sao Paulo Integrated Transport  S           S
the decentralized metropolitan rail  Project
agency, CPTM                        (Ln. 4312-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from    Salvador Urban Transport     S              S
federal to state government with BOT   Project (Ln. 4494-BR)
type construction of new metrorail line
Other development agencies
IDB-(Under Preparation)            Improvements to the highway
system and municipal transport
plan for the FMR
JBIC                               Rehabilitation/Modernization
of Metrofor's South Line
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank Strategy. Since 1992, the Bank has supported the rehabilitation and decentralization of CBTU
subdivisions to the State governments in Sao Paulo (Ln. 3457-BR) and Rio de Janeiro (Ln. 3633-BR).
Loan 3457-BR closed on March 31, 1998, having met its main objectives of (i) supporting the transfer the
CBTU-SP to the State of Sao Paulo to enhance its management and operations; (ii) introducing
institutional, organizational, and financial policy reforms to ensure its long-term financial sustainability,
including improved multimodal integration, and expanded capacity; and (iii) contributing to poverty
alleviation and environmental improvement. Loan 3633-BR, which had similar objectives, closed at the end
of 2000. In June 1995, the Board approved two more loans (Lns. 3915-BR and 3916-BR) for US$102.0
million and US$99.0 million to finance the decentralization of the urban rail systems in Recife and Belo
Horizonte, respectively. These loans were declared effective in April 1996 and are progressing
satisfactorily. Follow-up loans in Sao Paulo (4312-BR) and Rio de Janeiro (4291-BR), which became
effective recently, have attempted to introduce private sector participation in the decentralized commuter
rail systems - CPTM and Flumitrens, respectively. Flumitrens has been concessioned out to the private
sector in 1998. CPTM is scheduled to be concessioned out in 2001.
Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
To build upon the experience of previous urban transport and urban projects around the world, an ex-post
analysis of Project Completion Reports and Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PAR) was undertaken. This
review recognized the trends and changes in project design after the PCRs/PARs were completed. The main
lessons identified and incorporated in the design of the proposed project are:
Institutional Strengthening. The organizations dealing with urban transport at the federal, state and
municipal levels should be reorganized and strengthened. Studies included in the institutional component
must be carefully monitored and translated into action plans, which the Borrower must implement. The
proposed project jump-started the creation of the RTCC and completion of critical studies.
Lack of timely counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of project implementation and in some
cases has led to cancellation of components. An effort must be made to ensure that the adequate provisions
of counterpart funds are included in the annual budgets of federal and state enterprises. The Federative
Republic of Brazil and the State of Ceara (South Line) have included the project in their CYOO and CYOI
budgets.
Slow implementation has been a frequently occurring theme. The reasons have included a lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures, overoptimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering designs
at appraisal, changes in political commitment, and lack of counterpart funds. These problems would be
mitigated in the proposed project by such measures as: (i) strengthening capacity of operating agencies for
financial management and application of Bank procedures; (ii) requiring the submission of final engineering
design for the first year of project works prior to negotiations; and (iii) providing with technical assistance
as needed.
Decentralization Followed by Concession. Despite the fact that Metrofor is better placed than CBTU to
respond to local realities, as a public sector entity it will likely be constrained by political interference and
bureaucratic red tape as well as depend upon operating subsidies. These factors can be mitigated by the
transfer of operations and management through a concession to the private sector. Otherwise, there is little
- 11 -



motivation for government-appointed managers to reduce subsidies and improve the level of service
offered. The State of Ceara indicated that it agrees with this strategy. Bank lending operations in the rail
sector in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Recife and Salvador have made private participation a
critical objective of project implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The approval of the state law creating the Conselho Deliberativo da Regiao Metropolitana (CDM) de
Fortaleza on December 29, 1999 to "...deal with all metropolitan aspects common to all the FMR's
municipalities and to approve and update the Master Development Urban Plan for the region..." was a clear
indication of the State of Ceara commitment to institutional changes. The operation of the precursor of
Camara de Transporte of the CDM to assure integration with metropolitan and municipal buses is another
indication of the willingness to create an integrated transport system. The establishment and funding of
Metrofor as the state-owned company to receive the system transferred by the Federal Government is
another indication of the State's commitment to the project. Finally, the ongoing construction of the South
Line shows the commitment of both the State and the Federal Government to the modernization of the
system. The State has also agreed to complete decentralization, i.e., to take over the STU-FOR system as a
condition of effectiveness of the loan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The main value-added by the Bank in this project is its role as promoter of physical and tariff integration in
the FMR as well as an honest broker to provide more credibility and ensure accountability in the
decentralization and PSP process. To date, the Bank has accumulated significant experience in assisting the
States of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, and Pernambuco to take over the operations and
management of their respective CBTU subdivision located within their jurisdictions, improving the
operational and financial performance of these entities, reducing the level of operational subsidies, and
encouraging concession arrangements.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$145 million; ERR = 22 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Given that the funds are already committed for the South Line of the Metrofor under the JBIC loan, and the
investment is underway, it was appropriate to look at the West line investment as an increment on an
already existing system. The economic evaluation estimated the incremental rate of return of the investment
proposed for the rehabilitation/modernization of the West line, i.e. the return on the additional investment
required to add the West Line to the ongoing South Line investment. The estimated incremental Internal
Rates of Return (IRR) for the West Line, for the worst case scenario, i.e., the scenario in which only
metropolitan buses are integrated to the system ranges from 19-25 percent with a value of 22.1% for the
base case . The cost-benefit analysis compared the costs of the system (investment and maintenance) with
the benefits expected from the rehabilitation/modernization (user time-savings, bus and auto operation cost
savings, avoided investments, accident savings and pollution savings). The cost-benefit analysis undertaken
by the consultants were revised by the project team for several demand scenarios. Sensitivity analysis will
be performed and switching values for the most important variables were determined. The demand was
estimated using the EMME/2 simulation model which quantifies the passenger trips, passenger-hours and
passenger-km with and without project. The results of the demand analysis for this project indicated that in
- 12-



the first year of the project, traffic demand will exceed 17,000 passenger/per hour/ per direction during
peak periods in the West line.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 22 million; FRR = 12 % (see Annex 4)
The financial analysis estimated the rate of return on the incremental investment on the West Line due to
the savings in operating subsidies and capital investment which would not be required if the line is
rehabilitated/ modemized.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is not expected to have a negative fiscal impact on the finances of the State ,At this stage, the
State of Ceara is considered creditworthy. In fact the project is financed by the Federal Government as part
of the decentralization program. Therefore, any negative fiscal impact would only happen if the system
requires a sizeable operating subsidy. This will be minimized by the concession to the private sector,
hopefully a positive concession. The annual operating subsidy presently paid by CBTU (Federal
Government) for its CBTU-FOR subdivision is US$14 million. The decentralization and PSP in the system
will most likely eliminate or reduce this subsidy to a minimum.
The impact of the devaluation will be positive insofar as most of the civil works contracts are concerned
but negative insofar as rolling stock, signaling and telecom systems, because these are in general imported.
The Bank loan will help mitigate perceived exchange rate risks.
3. Technical:
Compared with other alternatives such as reserved or exclusive busways, this is a sound project from a
technical standpoint because by rehabilitating only 19 km of metrorail line in an existing rail right-of-way,
it will provide the FMR with a trunk corridor with high capacity at peak hour on the highest demand
corridor of the city, with minimum resettlement and negative environmental impact. The construction
methods proposed are well known and the technology required is widely available. The Bank project team
and State/CBTU staff reviewed the proposed project. They also evaluated several options to procure this
project including: a) a single Build (infact rehabilitate/modernize)-Operate-Transfer (BOT) type bid with
all infrastructure, equipment and operating concession included; b) two bids: a turnkey bid for the
infrastructure and fixed installation systems and rolling stock; and a second bid for the operating
concession with provision of additional rolling stock by the private sector; and c) a traditional procurement
with several bids for each main component and support from export credit agencies. The State/CBTU
project team has selected option b) after careful evaluation of the cost-effectiveness, market acceptability
and political impact. The procurement process proposed is similar to the one used in the Salvador Urban
Transport Project, the only difference being that the turnkey bid includes the basic systems and rolling
stock required for the initial operation in addition to the civil works and fixed installations. This ensures
that the basic infrastructure and equipment required to start operations will be available faster and will be
more attractive to the private sector. The selected alternative is the most cost-effective, viable and fastest
way to secure the highest private sector participation in the project without jeopardizing its main objective.
The disadvantages and risks of the selected alternative were carefully evaluated and discussed by
specialized project finance consultants financed by a PHRD grant. The discussion involved the highest
levels of the State government and adequate risk mitigation mechanisms were proposed. This process has
forced the State and Fortaleza Municipality to re-energize their transport planning, economic evaluation
and financial engineering capabilities because they know that any investment by the private sector will be
- 13 -



carefully scrutinized. Furthermore, the State and CBTU are equipped to implement this project and have
the capability to provide adequate supervision of the proposed works.
Appropriate incentives were created to make sure that the several actors involved will comply with the
modal integration and participate in the Regional Transport Coordination Commission. The State has
financed a modal integration study which is of interest to the municipalities to improve the bus operations
under their jurisdiction; it has agreed to free space for the development of the center of Fortaleza and
opening the access of one major avenue to the beachfront by the removal of abn existing workshop which
will be relocated; and made funding in future in urban transport conditional to participation in the RTCC.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Executing agencies: The main implementation agency is Metrofor, with assistance of CBTU. Metrofor
will sign all the contracts required for the carrying out of the Project.  In addition to being the
representative of the Federal Government for the transfer of funds for the Project, CBTU will assist
Metrofor in the procurement process, will keep the Project financial management system, will do the
required reporting to the Bank, and will, together with Metrofor, supervise the physical and financial
progress of the Project. Metrofor and CBTU have presently the same roles in the implementation of the
JBIC-financed South Line.
4.2 Project management:
Project management: Metrofor will establish and maintain a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), based in
Fortaleza, headed by a Project Coordinator, to manage the implementation of the several components of the
Bank-financed project. The Project Coordinator would report directly to the President of Metrofor. Project
Management consultants financed under the project would act as full time advisers to the Project
Coordinator to provide the technical support and international experience required for managing the
project. In addition to the Project Coordinator, who will be responsible for assisting CBTU in the overall
financial management of the project, the PCU will include: a) an engineer, with experience in procurement,
to coordinate Part A of the project; and (b) a management information systems specialist responsible for
assisting CBTU in the the reporting and supervision of the project. The PCU will be supported by a
multidisciplinary group (including an environmental engineer and a resettlement specialist) and a small
secretariat which will include an accountant responsible for project accounts and disbursements. CBTU's
existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU), a veteran of 5 Bank-financed projects, will provide support to
the PCU and will be responsible for overseeing the procurement and financial management of the loan. This
arrangement is necessary because the borrower is the Federative Republic of Brazil and a federal company
must be involved in the management of the project, even if the day-to-day supervision is undertaken by
Metrofor. This arrangement has been tested in the South Line project and so far has produced good results.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement Capacity: The procurement preparation, evaluation, management and monitoring will be
undertaken jointly by Metrofor and CBTU. CBTU has extensive experience in Bank procurement
guidelines and SBDs and is rated as one of our best implementing agencies in this area. The Regional
Procurement Advisor undertook a procurement capacity assessment of CBTU and concluded that this
agency is procurement proficient.
- 14 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management: Both the State and CBTU have experience with Bank loans and will be able to
handle all aspects related to the financial management of the project including accounting, disbursement
and auditing functions. CBTU will be the agency responsible for loan disbursements because this is a loan
to the Federal Government. CBTU has presented a time bound action plan to the Bank (in the context of the
Salvador Urban transport Project) to integrate the existing systems so that it can become eligible for
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with LACI procedures. This process is underway.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Clearances. SEMACE, the State Environmental Agency, has already issued the license
necessary to proceed with project works because this license for both the West and South Lines was
required when the loan with JBIC for the South Line was signed. The Bank asked the Borrower for an
update of the environmental assessment report and a full resettlement plan. Both were submitted to LCSES
as part of the conditions for appraisal. The Environmental Assessment Report of the West Line was
prepared by independent consultants and included an Environmental Management Plan, an Implementation
Procedures Manual for dealing with environmental impacts to be attached to all bidding documents and a
full ressettlement plan. The Environmental Management Plan emphasizes the mitigatory measures to
minimize anticipated impacts, the monitoring structure which will follow up and measure the impacts. The
impact of the existing project on the environment is positive because, if the Metrofor system works as
planned, it will divert bus riders to rail and decrease the number of bus-kilometers and consequently
contribute to a reduction of emissions. The amount of resettlement necessary is also modest (see below)
although some expropriation will be required when grade crossings are converted to grade separations. As
a result of these factors, the project was given a "B" rating.
Air and Noise Pollution. Motor vehicle-generated air pollution is increasing with increased auto ownership
and congestion in the FMR and may become a major and growing threat to public health. Abatement of air
pollution can decrease morbidity and premature death due to respiratory and cardiovascular illness, and
improvements in the overall well being and quality of life of the population. Noise pollution generated by
buses and automobiles would most likely decrease due to a diversion of commuters from buses to
electrified rail-based systems. During construction of the Metrofor system, it is expected that, in some
cases, the surrounding areas will be temporarily affected due to noise, dust, vibration, street closure and
excavation. Careful management of construction to minimize impacts on the surrounding area and
re-routing road-based traffic will minimize such problems. A manual of environmental procedures for
implementation of the project was prepared by Metrofor and will be part of the bidding documents. The
post-construction impact on traffic congestion, bus overcrowding, and vehicle accidents is expected to be
positive and long-lasting. Thus, the project would have a net beneficial impact on the environment. The
system would help relieve congestion in a major transport corridor, resulting in lower emissions of
pollutants per vehicle-kilometer.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP are adequate and consist of the description of the mitigatory measures to be
undertaken to minimize impacts, particularly those dealing with traffic management,noise, dust, vibration
and expropriation. An implementation procedures manual with all the measures required to mitigate
impacts during construction was prepared and will be part of the bidding documents. Particular emphasis
was given to the areas around the stations to ensure full integration with the neighborhood and safety to the
- 15-



pedestrians. The monitoring structure which will be put in place to follow the project is also described.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 05/18/2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted during preparation in public meetings previously announced and scheduled
with minutes recorded for each meeting; through conferences to different trade associations and
neighborhood committees. The draft EA was made available for consultation in public places as required
by Brazilian legislation and was discussed in an official public audience in which the comments were
judged by the State Environmental Agency (SEMACE).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
An environmental specialist will be part of the core team and will assess the impacts due to noise, vibration
and dust during and after the construction. The impact on buses and modal share will also be measured.
See monitoring indicators in Annex 1.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Most of the users of bus and rail systems are low-income and live in the peripheral settlements of greater
FMR. Improving suburban and metropolitan rail services in general increases the access of low-income
commuters to economic centers. Many of them seek employment in the urban center and other areas of
FMR and are constrained by their lack of mobility and access to areas where work is available. As in other
CBTU  projects,   a comprehensive household survey was undertaken in connection with the
Origin-Destination survey. This exercise, carried out by specialized consultants, was able to map out the
basic demographics and income of the FMR population. The State has indicated that it will set the single
Metrofor fare at the same level as the existing bus fare. The integrated fare for users originating outside
the municipality of Fortaleza will not exceed the metropolitan bus fares. This will minimize the burden of
the fares on lower-income groups. A comprehensive willingness-to-pay exercise was undertaken by
consultants hired by Metrofor to gauge the willingness-to-pay for the improvements in the level of service.
The results showed that users are willing to pay more than the proposed fares for the improved level of
service that will be provided. It must be emphasized that the State will be responsible for setting the tariff
for the system in order to ensure that it is not a burden to the low-income population. This in itself
guarantees some protection to the low-income users even if the system is operated by the private sector.
The Regulatory Agency (ARCE) will have to approve any tariff increases and will hold public audiences to
hear the community views.
Improved Access for Low-Income Households. Project civil works would improve physical condition of the
Metrofor system as well as reduce travel time and the numbers of transfers between stations and/or modes.
Transport Users Associations in the FMR have stressed to Bank missions the importance of having an
efficient and reliable rail system that is better integrated with busways and critical road corridors.
Improving access to jobs and other economic opportunities for residents of outlying areas of FMR would
encourage low-income residents of those areas to remain in place where the quality of life is higher and the
cost of living is lower. This would reduce the tendency to seek housing in more congested areas near the
- 16 -



urban center, a practice that frequently results in squatting high concentrations in unhealthful locations
placing a very high demand on urban services.
Urban Redevelopment and Poverty Alleviation. The expansion of the Metrofor system is expected to help
reverse the decline of the old central business district of Fortaleza. The project would provide improved
transport connection to major economic and employment centers in the FMR-industrial areas (e.g.
petroleum products, textiles, food processing and petrochemical plants, etc.), tourist sites and services, and
universities. In this manner, the project is expected to encourage economic growth in the region. The
South line tunnel (financed under the JBIC loan) and its connection to the West line will free up an
important area of Fortaleza's center, allowing a number of avenues direct access to the coastal road, where
most hotels are located. As mentioned above, a comprehensive willingness-to-pay exercise was undertaken
by consultants hired by Metrofor to gauge the willingness-to-pay for the improvements in the level of
service. Overall it is expected that the out-of-pocket costs for the users of the system will not be higher than
without the project and the generalized costs, that is, the composite of fare plus value of time multiplied by
the travel time, reliability and safety, will be lower than without the project. Savings in travel time will
allow users to use the time saved for leisure, social functions and/or additional work time.
Resettlement: Construction of the West line will entail a relatively small amount of resettlement because it
follows an existing right-of-way currently used by a diesel-powered commuter line onto which there has
been very little encroachment. Displacement of home and businesses would occur where the right-of-way is
widened and in areas to be used for passenger stations, intermodal transfer points, viaducts, pedestrian
crosswalks, grade crossings, repair facilities, switching yards, rail junctions, etc. Considering the relatively
sparse settlement along the right-of-way, it appears that the construction of the metro-rail line would not be
disruptive to surrounding communities. Many pedestrians currently cross the right-of-way at grade level
at many points, so the design has taken into account the need to preserve contact between populations on
either side of the line which would be closed off to pedestrian access. METROFOR has prepared a
detailed resettlement plan based on a comprehensive household cadastre, a socioeconomic study, and
numerous community meetings held with families along the route of the new metro. Some 319 properties
will be affected of which 291 are residential or of mixed use. The plan shows that all the displacement
would occur at the sites of certain stations and viaducts separated by an average distance of 2,994 m,
(range: 2286m-3502m). The household surveys also indicate that a large majority of families would prefer
to remain in the vicinity of the homes they currently occupy and a large majority would prefer cash
compensation to a new home. In view of these conditions, the resettlement plan does not call for
construction of housing, but instead compensation payments carefully supervised to insure that families are
able to secure good quality housing in the area of their choice. A special study of the FMR housing market
indicates that this plan is feasible.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are the low-income users of the Caucaia and Maracanaui areas who
will be able to reduce substantially their travel time commute downtown using a bus plus-Metrofor
combination and integrated fare. The fare system is being designed in a way to ensure that the
out-of-pocket costs to be paid by the users will not be significantly higher than those paid today . The
Associacao Nacional de Transportes PNiblicos (ANTP) which represents users and operators was involved
in the preparation of the programs. The association is very supportive of the project. In most cities where a
metrorail system of this type is introduced there is a structuring effect whose benefits are difficult to
quantify but which , in general, are very positive for the urban setting in which the system is inserted.
- 17 -



Stations become in general main commercial hubs and real estate develops much faster in the corridor
served by the line. Real estate prices before and after implementation will be carefully monitored.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders are the municipalities of Caucaia and Maracanaiu which are served by the system.
In general, there is a consensus that the Metrofor project is long overdue (the JBIC loan took 8 years to
materialize) and will represent a major gain for the users of the system in terms of travel time, reliability
and quality of life. The dwellers of government sponsored housing developments around both lines will be
some of the main beneficiaries of the new system.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Local groups and NGOs consulted: The Metrofor project was discussed and explained to a considerable
number of trade associations and community groups either interested in the project or directly/indirectly
affected by it. Under the Consultation category (CON), the groups involved were:Comunidade de Alto
Alegre, Associacao Fratemidade Santa Terezinha, F6rum de Moradia do Grande Mondubim, Camara
Municipal de Caucaia, Prefeitura e Camara Municipal de Pacatuba, Prefeitura e Camara Municipal de
Maranguape, Prefeitura e Camara Municipal de Guaiuiba; under the Information sharing (IS)category the
groups met were amongst others: Rotary Clube de Fortaleza, Camara de Dirigentes Lojistas, Departamento
de Engenharia de Transportes/Universidade Federal do Ceara, Associa,ao Cearense de Formacao de
Govemantes, Instituto dos Arquitetos do Brasil, Federacao das Industrias do Estado do Ceara. The State
made sure that the project was explained and publicized widely using for that purpose community meetings,
formal seminars and conferences followed by debates and radio, printed press and television
announcements. Several staff of the Federal University of Ceara were consultants to the project and
Metrofor has hired several of its students to train them for the responsibilities involved in managing a
metro. Under the collaboration category (COL) , other than the Federal University of CearA, Ferroconsult,
the consulting arm of the Lisbon Metro, and the Sao Paulo and Recife Metros signed cooperation
agreements with METROFOR for training, advice and technical cooperation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project management team at METROFOR will include specialized personnel which will monitor the
impact of the project on the social development objectives set at appraisal.This team will include an
environmental consultant and a resettlement consultant who will ensure that the affected parties are
adequately served. They will also ensure that the mitigatory actions and resettlement plan are implemented.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A Metrofor Team will monitor the families and businesses displaced by the project and ensure that they
have been properly relocated. Property prices before and after construction will be recorded. The evolution
of tariffs and satisfaction of the users with the level-of-service provided will be monitored every 2 years by
an independent survey organization.
- 18-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   OYes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment report including a resettlement plan were prepared by independent
consultants hired by the Borrower and reviewed by the Bank.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
PSP in the operations and management of Metrofor. The successful completion of the proposed bids
inviting the private sector to operate and manage Metrofor would bolster sustainability by imposing greater
discipline in limiting system expenditures, pursuing more effective revenue maximization strategies, and
limiting political interference. Private sector participation would also ensure adequate maintenance levels,
and achieve higher train availability rates. The existence of a strong regulatory agency suggests that
enforcement of the compliance with the contracts with the private sector will be guaranteed.
Establishment of the RTCC. The strengthening of the Regional Transport Coordination Commission
(RTCC) would improve coordination between the State, municipal governments, and transport service
providers and allow the discussion of urban transport issues common to the region such as automated
ticketing, definition of trunk corridors and feeder lines, organization of bus lines, tariff harmonization, and
investment priorities.
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Project cost and time overruns.            M         Use of well-known technology, available from
many sources.
Delays in the procurement process.         N         Delays will be minimized by starting at
pre-appraisal the pre-qualification by using
standard bidding documents and requiring the
borrower to produce the major tender documents
by negotiations.
From Components to Outputs
Unsustainability of the RTCC               N         Bank conditionality to ensure that RTCC will be
maintained. Appropriate incentives for the
participation of municipalities were designed in
the law creating the RTCC
Resettlement delays                        N         Start the implementation of the Resettlement
action plan right after appraisal.
Demand forecast overestimated              M         Independent demand forecast studies will be
available.
Proliferation of illegal transport (vans,  M         Assurances of enforcement by State,
topics)                                              Municipalities and ARCE.
Poor modal and Fare integration and        M         The establishment of the RTCC and the
tariff too high for low-income users after           concession will emphasize this aspect. Adequate
PSP                                                  incentives to all participating municipalities and
operators have been designed.
ARCE must approve tariffs and will examine
burden on low-income users. If need be and
request for tariff increases by private operators
are justified, State will put in place mechanisms
targeted to the poor to subsidize their travel.
Delay in approving bus feeder routes to    M         A written agreement between the Municipalities
rail stations                                        of Fortaleza, Caucaia and Maracanaui and the
State will be obtained.
The Municipality of Fortaleza is represented by
a Director in Metrofor's Board. The Secretary of
Planning of Maracanaui is also a member of
Metrofor's Board representing all the other
municipalities of the FMR
Untimely availability of counterpart       M         The Federal Government has agreed to include
funds.                                               the necessary counterpart funds in CY 01.
Limited private sector interest in the     M         The proposed package will be designed in a way
operations and management of Metrofor                as to attract the attention of the private sector.
In case of failure of first bid a second will be
undertaken. If none succeed an altemative plan
- 20 -



Ifor PSP will be agreed with the Bank
Overall Risk Rating                1       M                                              _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Political and/or union opposition to the   M          The State of Ceara will absorb the STU/FOR
decentralization. Social impact of                    staff after decentralization. A staff
retrenchment due to low job availability              redundancy and retraining program
satisfactory to the Bank will be provided by
the State prior to any concession. Public
information campaigns and meetings with
STU/FOR employees will be held.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
a) the transfer of the STU/FOR to the State of Ceara; and
b) the State of Ceara must submit an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, signed with at least the
Municipalities of Fortaleza, Caucaia and Maracanaui, in which all of them confirm that they are committed
to implement the bus integration with the METROFOR for selected lines which presently run parallel to the
West and South Lines, within 30 days after the entry into operation of those lines. This agreement should
include a basic plan which will clearly indicate the metropolitan bus lines to be integrated with the
Metrofor and the present metropolitan bus lines which will be modified/eliminated.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a)  the Project Coordination Unit (PCU ) would be structured and adequately staffed (including an
environmental and a resettlement specialists) and otherwise supported in the implementation of its
responsibility under the project. Metrofor provided the Bank with the names and curricula vitae of the
project coordinator assigned to the PCU;
b)  procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines;
c)  a Special Account in a commercial bank would be opened and maintained;
d)  the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs):
(i) would be audited according to procedures by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
audits would be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each year;
e)  pre-agreed operational and financial performance targets would be included in the semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank;
- 21 -



f) final engineering and technical specifications of works and goods for the program were completed and
reviewed by the Bank prior to negotiations.
Resettlement Plan:
(a) the Resettlement Plan will be implemented in accordance with the timetable and procedures agreed with
the Bank; (b) relocation of families and commercial activities for each link will have been concluded before
the service order to initiate construction for that link is signed.
Annual and Mid-Term Review:
(a) at each annual review, SC/CBTU will present the program for the following year and seek approval
from the Bank before proceeding with its preparation and implementation; and
(b) a Mid-Term Review to take place 24 months after loan effectiveness, to review agreed institutional,
operational, and financial performance indicators, and compliance with covenants. Based on this
evaluation, SC/CBTU will propose a revised action plan and any corrective measures necessary to ensure
that the project meets its objectives.
Retroactive financing of up to US$8.5 million (10 percent of loan funds) for expenditures made within one
year before loan signing is recommended because certain project activities, such as the preparation of final
engineering designs and the installation of the project management information systems, were already
undertaken or should be carried out immediately.
T'he pre-qualification documents for the private sector participation in operations and management of
Metrofor should be issued not later than twelve months after effectiveness.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
L 1. b) Not applicable.
i 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
,3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
~~~~/                                                           V2 p '
forge M. Rebelo                   Danny M. Leipzig r                Vinod Thomas
ream Leader                       SectorManager/  ctor              Country Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Key Performance                                1
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation  i Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The proposed project is in   Metrofor decentralization  Not applicable.        Expect that Government of
line with the five main   completed.                                           Brazil will continue its efforts
pillars of the CAS, namely:                                                    of public sector reform
(a) targeted interventions to  PSP process of Metrofor                        through ongoing technical
completed                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~assistance .
reduce poverty, among     completed.
others through the provision Elimination of subsidies from                     Expect that Federal and State
of urban services to the  the government and its fiscal                        Governments will continue to
poor;                     impact on the finances of                            strengthen the enabling
(b) sustainable fiscal    State is not negative.                               environment for private sector
adjustment, among others                                                       operators in the railway
through reform of public   Improved accessibility and                          sector.
enterprises; (c) renewed  reduction of the generalized
growth, among others      cost of travel for low-income
through private sector    users.
participation in
pasrtcitio   .i             Loan disbursements occur as
Infrastructure provision; (d)sceudwihaqat
.                 ~~~~~~~scheduled with adequate
improved government       counterpart funds.
effectiveness; and (e)
effective environmental
management.
- 24 -



Key Performance      l                          1
Hierarchy of Objectives[         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
(a) improve the quality of  By the end of the project:    See attached Table IA.  System will not have
public urban transport in the  19 km of a metropolitan rail                     operating subsidies otherwise
FMR by enhancing the       system                                               will be a fiscal burden to the
development of a fully    rehabilitated/modernized and                          government;
integrated urban transport   integrated with other modes.
system under the coordination                                                   Proposed structural reforms,
of a Regional Transport   Urban transport coordination                          i.e., concession to the private
Coordination Commission    and planning in the FMR                              sector will take place.
(RTCC) and rehabilitate the  will be in place.
Metrofor West Line;
40% of stations of the
rail-based system integrated
with buses.
10-15% lower average
generalized travel costs (travel
times, fares and reliability)
than without system.
Higher share (10%) of rail in
total urban transport trips and
reduced bus congestion.
Reduction of Metrofor's
working subsidies by at least
eighty percent. By the end of
the project;
- A formal regional transport
coordination commission for
the FMR will be in place;
(b) to transfer the STU/FOR   Metrofor system will be
system from the Federal to the owned and regulated by the
State government;         State
and (c) increase the private    Metrofor will be operated
sector participation in the  and managed by the private
operation and management of sector.
the Metrofor system (West
and South lines)
- 25 -



Key!Performance      0
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators        I Monitoring & Evaluation_    CriticAssumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Part A is an Infrastructure   By end of 2002:        See attached Table 1A      - No lack of counterpart funds
and Equipment Investment  - 1/3 of the infrastructure of                        due to recent austerity
Component to:             the rail system                                       measures.
rehabilitated/modernized.
(i) rehabilitate/modemize the                                                   - No delays in project
West line of the Metrofor  - RTCC established and                               implementation due to
system under a turnkey with   meeting regularly.                                procurement problems.
PSP in operations and
management contract to    - The transfer of the CBTU to
complement the South line,  the State Government
which is being financed by    completed.
JBIC and is under
rehabilitation; (ii) build and   - Concession signed.
rehabilitate the transfer
stations between the metro,   By end of 2003:
buses, autos, and         - 2/3 of the infrastructure of
non-motorized transport; and  the rail system built.
(iii) finance the Project
Management and project    - Integrated land use, urban
supervision consultants. The  transport and air quality
cost of Part A is estimated at  strategy would have been
US$173million.            completed and discussed in
the RTCC.
By end of 2004:
- Project civil works
completed.
- Rolling stock and systems
delivered and operational tests
underway.
- Rail links completed with
adequate connections to the
bus system.
- Concession operating.
By end of 2005:
System in full
revenue-operation.
- 26 -



Part B is an Institutional
and Policy Development
Component to help in to:
(i) support the
decentralization to the State of
STU/FOR to the private sector
through technical assistance if
necessary;
(ii) strengthen the RTCC for
the Fortaleza Metropolitan
Region (FMR); and (iii)
prepare an integrated
Transport Policy, Land Use,
and Air Quality Management
strategy for the FMR to meet
both transport and air quality
targets and to introduce sound
cost-recovery cost-recovery
tariff, and subsidy policies.
The cost of Part B is estimated
at US$2.15million.
- 27 -



:Key Performance    1                                1
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators        i Monitoring & Evaluation j  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Infrastructure and        US$173 million                * Final Engineering     - Private sector will be enticed
Equipment Investment      By end of 2002:                 designs.              by the BOT/Concession.
Component to:             - 1/3 of the infrastructure of  * Concession design.
the rail system              * Turnkey bidding       - Federal/State relations will
(i) rehabilitate/modernize the  rehabilitated/modernized.  documents.           speed up CBTU's
West line of the Metrofor                               * Concession bidding    decentralization.
system under a turnkey with   - RTCC established and      documents.
PSP in operations and     meeting regularly.                                    - The RTCC will be an
management contract to                                                          influential forum in transport
complement the South line,   - The transfer of the CBTU-                        coordination of the SMR.
which is being financed by    to the State Government
JBIC and is under         completed.                                            - No project cost and time
rehabilitation; (ii) build and                                                  overruns.
rehabilitate the transfer  - Concession signed.
stations between the metro,                                                     - Environmental License is
buses, autos, and         By end of 2003:                                       obtained on schedule.
non-motorized transport; (iii) - 2/3 of the infrastructure of
finance the Project       the rail system built.                                - No resettlement delays.
Management and project
supervision consultants.  - Integrated land use, urban                          - Sustainability of the RTCC.
transport and air quality
strategy would have been                             - No delays in the turnkey and
completed and discussed in                           operating concession
the RTCC.                                            procurement process.
By end of 2004:                                      - No delays in the
- Project civil works                                decentralization of CBTU.
completed.
- Timely availability of
- Rolling stock and systems                          counterpart funds.
delivered and operational tests
underway.                                            - Success to concession out
the operations of the system.
- Rail links completed with
adequate connections to the
bus system.
- Concession operating.
By end of 2005:
- System in full
revenue-operation.
US$2.15 million
- 28 -



Institutional and Policy                                   * concession review
Development Component to                                     documents.
help in to:                                                * institutional framework
document
(i) support the                                            * Integrated Urban
decentralization to the State                                Transport, Land Use
and subsequent concession of                                 and Air quality study
Metrofor to the private sector                               report
through technical assistance;
(ii) strengthen the RTCC for
the Fortaleza Metropolitan
Region (FMR); and (iii)
prepare an integrated
Transport Policy, Land Use,
and Air Quality Management
strategy for the FMR to meet
both transport and air quality
targets and to introduce sound
cost-recovery cost-recovery
tariff, and subsidy policies.
- 29 -



Table LA: Monitoring Indicators and Targets
By End of Calendar Year               2000        2001           2002          2003       2004    2005
(base)
Project Development Objectives
Percentage of rail stations physically  0%                                                 50%       50%
and tariff integrated with bus lines
(integration related objective)
Rail share of urban transport         2%                                                             10%
motorized trips (%) (congestion
related objective)
Generalized cost of travel (travel     93                                                   69        65
time plus fare plus reliability) in
minutes between Caucaia and Joao
Felipe (accessibility of low-income
user related objective)
Decentralization of STU-FOR to                   Completed
State
Project Outputs
Physical Implementation
% of the Permanent Way Works          0%                          33%          66%        100%
completed
% of other Civil Works completed      0%                          33%          66%         100%
% of Rolling Stock and System         0%                                       33%         80%      100%
works completed
Institutional Development
Private Sector Participation                    Modeling      Bidding
completed     procedures
initiated
Establishment and strengthening of   Start
formal RTCC                       periodic
meetings
Integrated Urban Transport, Land Use           Draft Report                 Final Report
and Air Quality Strategy                       completed                    discussed in
participatory
manner
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$173.20 million
An Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component (Part A). (i) rehabilitate/modernize the
West line of the Metrofor system under a turnkey with PSP in operations and management contract to
complement the South line, which is being financed by JBIC and is under rehabilitation; (ii) build and
rehabilitate the fransfer stations between the metro, buses, autos, and non-motorized transport; and (iii)
finance the Project Management and project supervision consultants. The West line will be at the end of
the project a rapid transit line, 19 km in length, meter gauge, double track, fully grade separated at road
intersections.
This component includes:
(a) Civil Works including 19 line-km of infrastructure and superstructure, 13 bridges and
viaducts. There will be 10 passenger stations on the line, of which two are elevated. The stations have
off-street entrances and 90 m train platforms. This subcomponent will also include the civil works in the
areas surrounding the stations and in the grade crossings , to grade separate them; and road works in the
area of influence of the system. Construction of a freight workshop for the freight train system
separation at Caucaia.
(b) System-Wide Facilities include the following components: (i) a high voltage electrification
system, including two primary 69 kV substations with respective rectifiers and transformers; (ii) a
traction power system for distributing 3 kV power to the trains via an overhead catenary system; (iii) a
low voltage electrical system for illumination and all electrical systems below 380 V and cable trays; (iv)
a system for passenger control and ticket collection; (v) auxiliary systems, including support areas such
as pumps, panels, etc.; (vi) escalators and elevators for physically handicapped passengers; (vii) a
telecommunications system, including radio, telephone, data transmission, time transmission, and closed
circuit television; (viii) a central control system, and Automatic Train Control (ATC) on-board
equipment; and (ix) air conditioning, ventilation, fans and ancillary equipment.
(c) Rolling Stock comprising a fleet of eight trainsets to operate this link. These trains will
operate under ATC. Running maintenance shop facilities, including all equipment for maintaining the
revenue and non-revenue vehicles, will be part of the maintenance complex. An additional US$17.6
million in rolling stock are expected to be provided by the concessionaire as part of the concession fee.
(d) Project Management and Supervision to finance (i) the Project Management who will
assist the Project Coordination Unit ; (ii) project supervision consultants; and (iii) the detailed project
engineering design.
Project Component 2 - US$2.15 million
An Institutional and Policy Development Component (i) support the decentralization to the State and
subsequent concession of Metrofor to the private sector through technical assistance; (ii) strengthen the
RTCC for the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR); and (iii) prepare an integrated Transport Policy,
Land Use, and Air Quality Management strategy for the FMR to meet appropriate transport and air
quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery tariff, and subsidy policies.
- 31 -



Private Sector Participation Design in the Operations and Management of Metrofor
1. The strategy of the State of Ceara is that the Metrofor and other urban transport systems in the FMR
under its jurisdiction must be operated by the private sector through long-term concessions at a tariff set
by government. They also decided that these will be positive concessions, i.e., there will be no operating
subsidies paid by the State. They are, however, willing to finance most of the infrastructure and
equipment components, leaving the remaining investment to be done by the private sector at a level
which will still produce an acceptable return on equity to the concessionaire.
2. Financial Advisors (Ernst and Young/AP Engenheiros) were hired by the State under a PHRD grant
to evaluate the options for the concession and prepare a preliminary background memorandum, a
transaction report and an information memorandum.
3. Preliminary analysis (to be confirmed later) suggests that the best way to proceed with the
procurement of the project was to undertake two bids, one for the rehabilitation/modernization of the
West line (financed by the Bank loan) and the other for the concession for the operation and management
of the Metrofor system (West plus South Lines) with optional rolling stock. The main justification for
this choice are this option's better chances of reducing future investment requirements and obtain a
favorable concession fee as well as its better market acceptability and quicker implementation time.
4. The financial advisor is preparing a preliminary background memorandum, a transaction structure
report and an information memorandum. The latter will be annexed to the pre-qualification bid
documents for the concession.
5. A willingness-to-pay survey took place and concluded that the users would be willing to pay today up
to R$1.20 an integrated bus/rail fare and a rail fare equal to the municipal bus fare for a single
non-integrated fare which at present stands at R$1.
6. As mentioned above, the State's mandate is to provide a system affordable to the users, without
State's operating subsidies. Therefore, the design of the concession had to take into account these two
constraints and yet provide the necessary incentives and mitigation measures to create the enabling
environment for the private sector to participate in the investment on rolling stock and systems and have
a satisfactory return on its investment.
7. At present, in Fortaleza, the tariff charged by any municipal bus is R$1.00 (a flat rate, i.e., it does not
vary with distance or time of day). If the user transfers from one bus to another in a designated bus
terminal within the Fortaleza municipality, he does not have to pay an additional fare. If he transfers to
another bus outside the terminal he has to pay a second fare. The metropolitan (intermunicipal) buses
pay a fare which is much higher than the municipal bus ranging from R$0.80-R$2.60 because the
average trip length is also higher. At present, there are no integrated rail/bus fares. The Municipality
pays the buses on a vehicle-kilometer basis and per passenger transported. The remuneration per
vehicle-kilometer is set by a standard cost spreadsheet which is periodically revised and discussed with
the bus owners syndicate. There are no state/municipal direct subsidies paid to the bus operators.
- 32 -



8. Since integrated fares will be introduced to actually facilitate the use of two modes under a single
ticket, the State and Municipality are preparing an integration plan with a recommendation for the
revenue split for bus and rail. The State will use the opportunity of the concession to also concession out
existing bus lines under its jurisdiction and eliminate those which run parallel to the right of way.
9. Since the state and the municipality want to safeguard the low-income classes by setting fares which
are in line with their willingness to pay, they will set the maximum fares that can be charged, both for
single and integrated fares. Most likely, the bidder with the highest net present value of: a) the difference
between the maximum tariff set and its proposed tariff; b) the amount of investment in infrastructure
and equipment above the minimum compulsory investment required; and c) its concession fee during the
term of the concession, will be the winner. A detailed analysis will be presented in the Transactional
Structure Report which will be available in the Project Files. More details are not given here because of
the public nature of this PAD.
10. The specific risks identified in this concession design are:
Risk                                     litigation measure
Further Foreign Exchange Devaluation and     A reserve account will be established by the State
Impact on Imported Equipment                 with the revenues obtained from the concession fee
Proliferation of illegal transport           State/ Municipal guarantees of enforcement in
concession contracts with compensation if not done
when agreed
Compensation for State mandated fare         State/Municipality will enact legislation indicating
discounts ("gratuidades")                   that it will compensate for such discounts
Bus feeder routes are not concessioned out as    State/Municipality will indicate in the concession
agreed                                       contract when and how is going to concession out
feeder routes as per plan agreed with the Bank.
Penalties for not introducing the feeder bus lines
when agreed will be part of the concession contract.
Sale of monthly passes/ special tickets      A system for selling these monthly passes and special
tickets will be agreed and included in the concession
contract
Delays in the completion of the civil works of   Penalties to be paid to the State by turnkey
South Line                                  contractor could be put in escrow to pay any
concessionaire claims due to delays
- 33 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
This table has been intentionally deleted at the request of the Borrower under the Bank's
disclosure policy.
- 34 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
US$millions in January 2000 prices)
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                     Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial Analysis'
Analysis                  _          Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:                   245.2             144.2
Time Savings                144.4
Operating Cost                81.3
Savings
Other Savings                 19.5
Savings in                                    144.2
Investment
avoided/Subsid ies
Costs:                       100.1            124.1             24.1
Investment Costs             94.4             124.1
Other Costs                     6
Net Benefits:                145.0             20.1
IRR:                           22                12
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Cost-Benefit Analysis
An incremental cost-benefit analysis of the proposed metrorail West line was undertaken to evaluate the
economic feasibility of the project. The methodology used consisted in comparing the situation with and
without project and quantifying the benefits due to time savings for users of all modes, operating cost
savings for all modes, road maintenance cost savings, accident savings, air pollution savings and the
investment and operating costs. The demand for each mode was determined using a demand model which
estimated the passenger-hours and passenger-kms saved by mode with the project. The base case analysis
was undertaken for the worst scenario, i.e., Metrofor with only metropolitan bus integration, therefore
without municipal bus integration. In addition to the base case the analysis estimated the IRRs for the West
Line for the situation with metropolitan and municipal integration as well as without any integration.The
results are presented in the project file.
- 35 -



The main benefits considered were:
*      Operating cost savings (these are savings resulting from the lower costs of operating all modes
with and without the project - The demand model estimates the passenger-kms with and without the
project and these are multiplied by the respective estimated operating costs);
*      Travel time savings - These are estimated by determining the passenger-hours saved, by type of
trip (home-to-work, business or other) and multiplied by the value of time for each type of trip. Again
the demand model estimates the passenger-hours with and without project per mode;
*      Reduction of accidents - These are estimated by multiplying the average cost per accident per 1000
passenger-kms with and without project. This reduction of accidents is normally a function of the
number of bus-kms saved (minor);
*      Reduction in road maintenance costs due to the reduction of bus-kms with the project (minor);
*      Reduction of air pollution costs due to reduction in bus-kms with project (minor).
To be conservative the costs of avoided investments in the do-nothing situation were not considered in the
base case, only in sensitivity analysis.
The main costs considered were:
The investment costs of the system and the operating costs of the West line system. Note that this line is
98% at-gradeand 2% elevated. The project will decrease the number of bus-kms traveled on the urban
network through the rehabilitation/modernization of the West line and the re-routing of the metropolitan
buses to the main stations. The bus-kms saved per year are estimated by the demand model. The main
beneficial impacts of the project under evaluation are reduced congestion (mainly due to less buses on the
street), reduction in traffic-related accidents, reduced vehicular air pollution, reduced noise due to less
buses on the street and economic savings from lower operating costs and reduction of travel time. The
above are all quantifiable and were used in the economic analysis. There are, however, a great number of
non-quantifiable benefits which cannot be captured in a standard cost-benefit analysis but are worth
noting:
*      Accessibility and creation of new opportunities: 1. Promotes the interconnection between
residential and employment areas and social equipment (hospitals, schools) facilities; 2. Strengthens
existing sub-centers; 3. Creates new employment poles in the periphery; 4. It favors the development of
new housing poles; 5. It will encourage new sub-centers of economic activity which otherwise would
not be started.
*      Land Use and Value: 1. It increases land values due to lower generalized travel costs by public
transport and by auto even without changes in the zoning law; 2. It increases the dynamics of the real
estate market which is reflected by the occupation of empty lots and the renewal of older building in the
area of influence of the metrorail.
- 36-



*      XEmployment Generation: It will promote the creation of jobs with multiplier effects in several
sectors of the economy.
A detailed economic evaluation report can be found in the Project File.
Main Assumptions:
Traffic Demand Analysis
Demand analysis was undertaken by specialized consultants (SETEPLA ) based on the data provided by a
comprehensive 1996 Origin -Destination Survey which collected data in 171 zones , interviewed close to
5000 households and 20000 people. Traffic demand levels were estimated by consultants through a
demand simulation using the EMME 2 model, which tested several scenarios with different combinations of
tariffs, travel time and reliability. Emme2 uses a modified 4 step approach of the Urban Transport
Planning System, namely Traffic Generation, Traffic Distribution, Modal Split and Traffic Assignment and
it is one of the most commonly used traffic demand packages in the world. Peak-hour traffic estimated for
2006 is 37,711 passengers in both directions (220,000/day) with the heaviest direction with more than
20,000 passengers increasing to 43,920 passengers in 2011, and 50,262 in 2016 (293,000/day).. The full
demand analysis was reviewed by independent Bank consultants (TTC). Fixed guideway systems of the
type proposed are worth considering when the peak-hour demand exceeds 15,000pphpd in the first year. A
metrorail system can, with the adequate signalling systems which allow 90 seconds headways, transport up
to 60,000pphpd. A detailed demand analysis report can be found in the Project File.
- 37-



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis:
EIRR        NPV          B/C
%         (US$         Ratio
million)
r= 10%      r= 10%
BASE                                                   22.09%       145.00       2.45
CASE
Discount Rate      12%                     22.09%       96.69        2.06
15%                    22.09%       49.67        1.62
BENEFiTS   Value of Time       10%         Higher      23.03%       159.44       2.59
10%         Lower      21.12%       130.55       2.30
20%         Lower      20.11%       116.11       2.16
30%         Lower      19.07%       101.67       2.01
Operating Cost     10%         Higher      22.68%      153.75        2.53
Savings
10%         Lower      21.49%       136.25       2.36
20%         Lower      20.88%       127.50        2.27
30%         Lower      20.25%       118.74        2.19
Externalities     100%         Lower       21.21%      132.06        2.32
(accid. and air
pollution
savings)
Growth Rate       0.50%        lower       22.06%       143.84       2.44
(base case =                 2016-2024
2% per year)
0.50%        higher     22.16%       146.18       2.46
2016-2024
- 38 -



Incremental       10%         Higher     23.69%       169.52       2.69
Traffic
10%        Lower       20.40%      120.48       2.20
20%         Lower      18.61%      95.96        1.96
With Avoided      31500        0.90      24.71%    161,068.53      2.61
Investment
COSTS       Construction       10%        Higher      20.60%      135.59       2.24
Costs
(including
phys. and pric.
cont.)
20%        Higher      19.30%      126.19       2.06
Const.Costs -    32,000    (R.Stock      20.80%     132,784.68     2.18
Increase Cap                -Year
WL                          2006)
Operating         50%         Higher     21.88%       141.93       2.37
Costs
100%        Higher     21.67%       138.85       2.31
Wages &           100%        Lower       22.48%      150.62       2.59
Salaries
Start-up of     Investment
Operations        Costs
Stream
Year
One Year          2003        19,557     21.94%       139.36       2.44
delay (benefits
start accruing
in 2002)
2004       32,357
2002        34,535
2005       33,510
2005       22,371
2006        6,056
- 39 -



Two Year          2002        9,779      21.56%      127.81      2.41
delay (benefits
start accruing
in 2003)
2003       13,703
2004       36,021
2005       43,702
2006       26,931
2006       13,204
2007        5,046
- 40 -



Switching values of critical items:
EIRR       NPV       B/C
%        (US$      Ratio
million)
r= 10%     r=
10%
BASE CASE                                                       22.09%      145.00    2.45
BENEFITS    Value of Time and Operating    62.51%      Lower    10.00%       0.00     1.00
Cost Savings
Incremental Traffic          59.14%      Lower    10.00%       0.00      1.00
COSTS        Construction Costs            154.19%     Higher   10.00%       0.00      1.00
(including phys. and pric.
cont.)
Operating Costs             2358.98%     Higher   10.00%       0.00      1.00
22.48%     150.62     2.59
WHITHOUT
WAGES &
SALARIES
BENEFITS    Value of Time and Operating    64.94%      Lower    10.00%       0.00      1.00
Cost Savings
Incremental Traffic          61.43%      Lower    10.00%       0.00      1.00
COSTS        Construction Costs            160.17%     Higher    10.00%      0.00      1.00
(including phys. and pric.
cont.)
Operating Costs             28721.28%    Higher   10.00%       0.00      1.00
-41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
2006
| Year I   Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         19.1       40.0       46.0      50.0      20.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        19.1       40.0       46.0      50.0      20.2        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.9        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing            20.0       40.0      46.0       50.0      20.2       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 10.0       20.0      20.0       25.0      10.0       0.0       0.0
Government               10.0       20.0      26.0       25.0      10.2       0.0       0.0
Central               10.9      20.0       26.0      25.0       10.2      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    20.0      40.0       46.0      50.0       20.2      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 42 -



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 5.1: Income Statement 2005-2011
(US$ Millions in January 2000 Prices)
2005     2006      2007      2008     2009      2010      2011
OPERATING REVENUE
Full Fare                    20.0      19.1     21.7      22.7      23.5      23.9     26.8
Transfers                     5.8       8.7       9.9     10.1      12.9      13.2     14.8
Public Servce                 1.2       1.4       1.6      1.2       1.4       1.4      1.6
Total Operating Revenue      26.9      29.2     33.1      34.1      37.8     38.5      43.2
NON-OPERATING INCOME *
Rental & Other                0.7       0.7       0.7      0.8       0.8       0.9      0.9
Advertisement Space           0.7       0.7       0.7      0.8       0.8       0.9       0.9
Total Non-operating Income    1.3       1.4       1.5      1.6       1.6       1.7      1.8
Total Income                 28.3      30.6      34.6     35.7      39.4      40.2     45.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                    18.0      17.9      17.9     18.6      19.3      20.1     20.9
Spares and Materials          1.0       1.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0
Electricity                   4.8       5.0      5.1       5.4       5.4       5.4      5.4
New Contract Work             -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Administration/Other          3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
Public Service                -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Others                                                -                                 -
Total Working Costs          26.7      26.9     28.0      29.0      29.7      30.5     31.3
Net Working Income                0.2      2.3       5.1       5.1      8.0       8.0      11.9
Depreciation                 14.8      14.8      14.8     14.8      14.8      14.8      14.8
__ -                        -            -=                  -_
Total Operating Expenses     41.5      41.7     42.8      43.8      44.5      45.3     46.1
Net Operating Income            (14.6)    (12.5)     (9.7)    (9.7)     (6.8)     (6.8)     (2.9)
Net income forthe Year          (13.3)    (11.0)     (8.2)    (8.1)     (5.1)     (5.1)     (1.1)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Annual Net W. Income          1.5       3.8       6.6      6.7       9.7       9.7      13.7
Working Cost Ratio           0.99      0.92      0.85     0.85      0.79      0.79      0.72
Operating Cost Ratio         1.47      1.36      1.24     1.23      1.13      1.13      1.02
WorkingCostCoverage        105.8%    114.0%    123.7%    123.0%    132.5%    131.9%    143.7%
Personnel Costs:
%ofTotalRevenue        63.5%     58.3%     51.6%    52.1%     49.1%     50.0%     46.5%
% of Working Costs     67.2%     66.4%/- 43 -63.9%  64.1%     65.0%     65.9%     66.8%



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 5.2: Annual Ridership 2005-2011
(US$ Millions in January 2000 Prices)
2005     2006      2007     2008      2009     2010      2011
Daily Traffic ('000)            179       184      190       196      201       205      210
Total Passengers (%)
Full Fare                    65%      55%       55%      56%       51%      51%       51%
Transfers                    30%      40%       40%      40%       45%       45%      45%
Gratuitos                     4%       4%        4%       3%        3%       3%        3%
Evasion/Fraud                 1%       1%        1%        1%       1%        1%       1%
100%     100%      100%     100%      100%     100%      100%
Annual Traffic (MM)
Full Fare                   37.7      32.9     33.8      35.5     33.3      34.0      34.6
Transfers                   17.4      23.9     24.6      25.3     29.4      30.0      30.6
Gratuitos                    2.3       2.4      2.5       1.9      2.0       2.0       2.0
Evasion/Fraud                0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.7       0.7       0.7
58.0     59.7      61.5     63.4      65.3     66.6      67.9
Transport Tariff (US$)
Full Fare                   0.53      0.58     0.64      0.64     0.70      0.70      0.78
Transfer Fare               0.66      0.73     0.80      0.80     0.88      0.88      0.97
Rail share (50%)       0.33      0.36      0.40     0.40      0.44     0.44      0.48
Average Tariff              0.46      0.49     0.54      0.54     0.58      0.58      0.64
1 Worst Case Scenario-on;ly metropolitan integration
- 44 -



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 5.3: Balance Sheet 2005-2011
(US$ Millions in January 2000 Prices)
2005     2006      2007     2008      2009      2010      2011
ASSETS
Current Assets
Fund for Capital Replacement     13.0      16.8     23.4      30.1      39.8     49.5      63.2
Other Current Assets             24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0      24.0     24.0      24.0
37.0     40.8      47.4     54.1      63.8      73.5      87.2
Permanent Assets
Fixed Assets                    450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0    450.0
Less: Acc. Depreciation        (94.8)   (109.6)   (124.4)   (139.2)   (154.0)   (168.8)   (183.6)
355.2    340.4    325.6    310.8    296.0    281.2    266.4
Work in Progress                  -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Total Permanent Assets     355.2    340.4    325.6    310.8    296.0    281.2    266.4
Total Assets                        392.2    381.2    373.0    364.9    359.8    354.7    353.6
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liability                     -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Equity
Capital                         384.0    384.0    384.0    384.0    384.0    384.0    384.0
Additional Contribution          21.5      21.5      21.5     21.5      21.5      21.5     21.5
Accumulated Deficit             (13.3)    (24.3)    (32.5)    (40.6)    (45.7)    (50.8)    (.51.9)
392.2    381.2    373.0    364.9    359.8    354.7    353.6
Total Liabilities and Equity        392.2    381.2    373.0    364.9    359.8    354.7    353.6
- 45 -



BRAZIL
FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 5.4: Sources and applications of funds 2005-2011
(US$ Millions in January 2000 Prices)
2005     2006      2007      2008      2009      2010     2011
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Operating Income             (14.6)    (12.5)    (9.7)     (9.7)     (6.8)     (6.8)     (2.9)
Net Non-Operating Income           1.3      1.4       1.5       1.6       1.6       1.7       1.8
Depreciation                      14.8     14.8      14.8      14.8      14.8      14.8      14.8
Total from Operations              1.5      3.8       6.6       6.7       9.7       9.7      13.7
Other Sources
Capital Subsides
CBTU Program                           -         -        -         -         -         -
Operating Subsidy
Total Sources of Funds                 1.5      3.8       6.6       6.7       9.7       9.7      13.7
APPLICATIONS
Investment Program
CBTU Program                      -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Change in Working Capital              1.5      3.8       6.6       6.7       9.7       9.7      13.7
Total Applications of Funds            1.5      3.8       6.6       6.7       9.7       9.7      13.7
-46-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for
the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Turnkey
Infrastructure Works and Equipment will be procured under a turnkey contract awarded in
accordance with ICB procedures. Since the Bank is not financing the private sector participation for
the operation and management of the Metrofor system this bid will follow national procurement
procedures. These bidding processes will use specific bidding documents, similar to the one used in
the Salvador Urban Transport Project (Ln.4494-BR), to reflect the provision of civil work and the
supply of metrorail rolling stock and systems. The bidding documents for the private sector
participation will be based on the Salvador Urban Transport Project concession and are being
prepared under a PHRD grant.
Selection of Consultants
Consultants will be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines (Guidelines- Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, Revised September 1997
and January 1999). Consultant Services for project management, supervision of works and the
integrated Transport Policy will be undertaken under QCBS procedures. Consultant services for
support of the implementation unit will be hired under selection of individual consultants
procedures.
B) Assessment of the agencv's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by Metrofor with the assistance of the CBTU's Project
Implementing Unit (PIU), which will administer project funds, in close coordination with
METROFOR's Project Coordination Unit which will oversee day-to-day implementation,. The PIU
is a veteran of 5 ongoing Bank-Financed projects and is satisfactorily staffed by a Project Manager,
an Administrative unit of 3 staff, an Accounting unit of 4 staff, a Procurement unit with two
experienced procurement officers and two assistants, and a Technical unit with four professionals.
An assessment of the capacity of the PIU to implement procurement actions for the project has been
carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on March 20, 2000. The
- 47 -



assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed PIU.
The overall project risk for procurement is LOW.
Although the overall risk assessment resulting from the PIU's capacity assessment was LOW, the
unit has not yet in place a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and reporting procurement
actions. A consultant is developing such system that is expected to be ready by mid year 2001.
Consequently the PIU is INELIGIBLE for P'MR-based disbursements on procurement reporting
grounds. However, such situation should be re-assessed when the consultant work is completed.
C) Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan
was approved by the RPA and is in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar year, the
Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming
year.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the PIU has recoimmended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out
post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (LOW) the post-review
field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.
- 48 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement                 Total Cost
Method             (including contingencies)
ICB   NCB    Other I N.B.F.
1. Works
a. Civil works including   63.54                                        63.54
permanent                 (37.87)                                      (37.87)
Way and Electrification'
b. Metrorail Systems
1. Systems             (15.57)                                      (15.57)
2. Rolling stock        60.20                    17.60               77.80
(25.62)                  (0.00)              (25.62)
2. Consulting Services
a. PMOC & Supervision                      5.87                          5.87
(2.94)                       (2.94)
b. Technical Assistance                    2.15                          2.15
=_______________________             (2.15)                         (2.15)
3. Resettlement                                     4.25                 4.25
(0.00)             (0.00)
4. Front end fee                           0.85                          0.85
(0.85)                        (0.85)
Total           163.08l         8.87     21.85                193.8
(79.06)        (5.94)    (0.00)               (85)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement,
and any other miscellaneous items).
There will be a turnkey for works, electrification, rolling stock and system in one bid;
and a second bid for the concession with eventual obligation of provision of additional
rolling stock.
- 49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Description              Type of       Prior Review Limit       Contract Value
Procurement
1. Civil Works plus Systems plus
R. Stock and concession             ICB                All ICB              No Threshold
2. Consulting Services
Firms                            QCBS        TOR's, short list, technical    >100
evaluation and contracts
Individuals                    Para. 5.1 of    TOR's, short list, and         all
Guidelines          contracts
TOR, CV, contract
1. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of CBTU was undertaken using the appropriate survey forms and
CBTU was considered procurement-proficient by the regional procurement advisor. The thresholds for
prior review were set based on CBTU's prior experience with Bank Procurement.
2. There will be one turnkey bid for the provision of civil works, rolling stock and systems.
3. There will be 4 major requests for proposals for the PMC, Integrated land use, urban transport and air
quality study, and engineering supervision, to be selected under QCBS.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 24 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-reviews/audits).
- 50-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
(US$ million)
1. Goods under Part A.1 of the Project
(a) metrorail systems                          13.59                       50%
(b) rolling stock                             22.65                        50%
2. Works under Part A.1 of the Project        35.81                        65%
3. Consulting Services                         3.39                        50%
4. Front End Fee (1%)                           .85                        100%
5. Unallocated                                 8.71
Total                    85
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements for consulting firms' service contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
will be made on the basis of SOEs until the Borrower starts to prepare PMRs and decides to
disburse on the basis of PMRs. Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by
CBTU and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions.
- 51 -



Special Account:
To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of up to US$8.5 million equivalent. This
account would be replenished for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures.
Authorization is sought for retroactive financing of up to US$8.5 million (10 percent of loan funds) in
accordance with the Bank's standard guidelines. This retroactive financing would be for expenditures made
twelve months prior to loan signing and cover items such as the preparation of final engineering designs
and the project management information system. The disbursement arrangements were discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations.
Financial Management Procedures
A review by the Financial Management Specialist indicated that CBTU has not yet in place a satisfactory
system for linking accounting and procurement actions following LACI procedures. A consultant is
developing such system that is expected to be ready by mid year 2001. Consequently, as mentioned above
CBTU is INELIGIBLE for PMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds. However, such
situation should be re-assessed when the consultant work is completed.Both the State and CBTU have
experience with Bank loans and will be able to handle all aspects related to the financial management of the
project including accounting, disbursement and auditing functions.. CBTU will be the agency responsible
for loan disbursements because this is a loan to the Federal Government. CBTU has presented a time bound
action plan to the Bank (in the context of the Salvador Urban transport Project) to integrate the existing
systems so that it can become eligible for PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with LACI procedures.
This process is underway.
The Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs): (i)
would be audited according to procedures by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) audits
would be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each year.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               02/02/1999                    02/02/1999
Appraisal mission departure                       04/30/1999                    05/01/2000
Negotiations                                      05/30/2000                    07/10/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     12/30/2000
Prepared by:
Metrofor and CBTU and Bank staff/consultants.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grant (Japan) to study options for concession.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality                      ____
Jorge Rebelo                       Task Manager and Principal Transport Specialist
Armando Arauijo                    Advanced Procurement Specialist
Jose Carvalho                      Lead Counsel
Daniel Gross                       Resettlement Specialist
Tulio Correa                       Financial Management Specialist
Laura Tlaiye                       Environmental Specialist
Moazzam Mekan                      Investment Officer (IFC)
Kenneth Gwilliam                   Peer Reviewer
Ant6nio Estache                    Peer Reviewer
Solange Van Veldhuizen             Team Assistant
Consultant staff who worked on the
project included:
Jose Ricardo B. de Marca           Transport Economist
Francisco Moreno (TTC consultants)   Demand Analysis and Busway Specialist
Eduardo Germani (TTC consultants)   Demand Analysis (EMME 2 model)
PROJOB                             Project Engineering Reviewers
PROJOB                             Metro Systems Design Specialists
Geofisica/Ferroconsult/PROJOB      Environmental Specialists
Soraya Melgaco (AVANTE             Resettlement Specialists
consultants)
Ernst and Young/AP                 Project Finance Consultants
AP Engenheiros                     EPC consultants
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, prepared by METROFOR/CBTU for the appraisal mission, May 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Busways as Alternatives to the Metrofor and Avoided Investments in Case the Metrofor is Built, TTC
Consultants, February 2000.
2. Economic and Financial Evaluation of the Metrofor West line, March 2000.
C. Other
1. Cademo de Consolidacao do Projeto Metrofor, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Agosto de
1996.
2. ARCE - Agencia Reguladora de Serviqos Publicos Delegados do Estado do Ceara, 1997.
3. Pesquisa da Demanda por Transportes na Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Programa de Estudos de
Transporte em cidades de Medio Porte, Relat6rio Final, Montagem das Redes e Matrizes Futuras e Analise
de Viabilidade Econ6mica, Volume 1/2, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Setembro de 1997.
4. Pesquisa da Demanda por Transportes na Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Programa de Estudos de
Transporte em Cidades de Medio Porte, Relatorio Complementar, Analise de Sensibilidade dos Parametros
de Viabilidade Econ6mica, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Setembro de 1997.
5. Consolidac,o do Projeto Metrofor, Capitulo 3, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Abril de 1998.
6. Sintese do Programa de Implantaqao do Segundo Estagio do Trem Metropolitano de Fortaleza,
Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Maio de 1998.
7. Pesquisa da Demanda por Transportes na Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Programa de Estudos de
Transporte em Cidades de Medio Porte, Relat6rio Final, Montagem de Redes e Matrizes Futuras e Analise
de Viabilidade Econ6mica, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Julho de 1998.
8. Consolidacao do Projeto Metrofor, 2o. estagio, Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, Setembro de
1998.
9. Consolidacao do Projeto Metrofor - 2o. estagio, Analise Financeira, Determinacao da tarifa de
equilibrio, DEPET - Departamento de Planejamento de Transportes, Maio de 1999.
10. Estudo da Demanda do Sistema Metroviario da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Companhia
Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Maio de 1999.
1 1. Sistema Tarifario do Servico de Transporte Publico de Passageiros da Regiao Metropolitana de
Fortaleza, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Maio de 1999.
12. Alternativas de Modelos Institucionais considerando parceria com a iniciativa privada na operacao e
manutencao do Metrofor, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Junho de 1999.
13. Sistema Integrado de Transporte de Fortaleza, ETTUSA, Julho de 1999.
14. Densidades na Linha Oeste, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Agosto de 1999.
- 54 -



15. Pesquisa de Opiniao do Usuario de Transporte Coletivo da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza,
Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Setembro de 1999.
16. Pesquisa de Opiniao do Usuario de Transporte Coletivo da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza -
"Willingness to pay", Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Setembro de 1999.
17. Financial, Marketing and Business Consultant Services Concerning the Participation of the Private
Sector in the Operation and Maintenance of Metrofor, Companhia Cearense de Transportes
Metropolitanos, September 1999.
18. Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Sistema Metrofor, AvaliaSao dos Estudos de Revisao da Demanda,
TTC - Engenharia de Trafego e de Transportes S/C Ltda., Outubro de 1999.
19. Estudos de Impactos de Implantacao do Sistema Metrofor, Linha Oeste, Ferconsult/Metro Lisboa,
Dezembro de 1999.
20. Projeto Metrofor 2o. estagio, Reavaliacao e Atualizacao dos Parametros Economico-Financeiros, tendo
em vista a variacao cambial de 1999, SG Estudos Econ6mico-Financeiros S/C Ltda, Dezembro de 1999.
21. Projeto de Descentralizacao dos Trens Metropolitanos de Fortaleza, Arcabouco Institucional,
Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Dezembro de 1999.
22. Sistema de Transportes por Onibus, Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, DERT, Dezembro de 1999.
23. Pesquisa da Demanda por Transportes na Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Programa de Estudos de
Transporte em Cidades de Medio Porte, Setepla Tecnometal Engenharia Ltda., Dezembro de 1999.
24. Justificativa para a solucao por subterraneo para o trecho central do Metrofor, AP Trends, Dezembro
de 1999.
25. Bem-Vindo a ARCE, Agencia Reguladora de Servi9os Puiblicos Delegados do Estado do Ceara,
Dezembro de 1999.
Demanda do Sistema Metroviario da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Revisao, Companhia Cearense de
Transportes Metropolitanos, Fevereiro de 2000.
26. Demanda do Sistema Metroviario da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Revisao, Anexo 1, Estacoes
Metroviarias Embarque/Desembarque, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Fevereiro de
2000.
27. Demanda do Sistema Metroviario da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza, Revisao, Anexo 2, Rede
Metroviaria Carregamento, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Fevereiro de 2000.
28. Pesquisa de Estimativa do Valor de Tempo de Viagem e Economia de Tempo dos Futuros Usuarios do
Metrofor, Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos, Fevereiro de 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  and actual
disbursements
Project ID     FY       Purpose                                      IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig  Frm Rev'd
P055954        2002    GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                    65.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      65.00       0.00        0.00
P073192        2002     TA Financial Sector                              14.50       0.00                  0.00        0.00      14.46       0.00        0.00
P050881        2001     RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - PI             22.50       0.00                  0.00        0.00      22.50       0.00        0.00
P050880        2001     Rural Poverty Reduction Project - PE             30.10       0.00                  0.00        0.00      30.10       0.00        0.00
P050875        2001     Rural Poverty Reduction Project - CE             37.50       0.00                  0.00        0.00      37.50       0.00        0.00
P059566        2001     BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                        90.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      90.00       0.00        0.00
P059565        2001     BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)               69.60       0.00                  0.00        0.00      61.95      -0.85        0.00
P073294        2001     BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                        8.88       0.00                  0.00        0.00       8.88       0.72        0.00
P050772        2001     LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I                202.10       0.00                  0.00        0.00     199.50       0.00        0.00
P057649        2001     Rur_l Poverty Reduction Project - BA             54.35       0.00                  0.00        0.00      54.35       0.00        0.00
P047309        2000     BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                        0.00       0.00                  15.00       0.00      14.13       1.83        0.00
P035741        2000     NATL ENV 2                                       15.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      13.18       3.94        2.55
P050776        2000     NE Microfinance Development                      50.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      42.00      -8.00        0.00
P006449        2000    CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH)                        136.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     130.91      35.16        0.00
P039199        2000    PROSANEAR 2                                       30.30       0.00                  0.00        0.00      30.00      -0.30        0.00
P062619        2000    INSS REF LIL                                       5.05       0.00                  0.00        0.00       2.64       1.42        0.00
P039200        2000     ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                   43.40       0.00                  0.00        0.00      42.97       4.90        0.00
P043874        1999    BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -VIGISUS                100.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      82.66      76.00        0.00
P055388        1999    ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                              44.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      44.00      23.67        0.00
P054120        1999    BR- AIDS & STD Control II                        165.00       0.00                  0.00        3.50      60.40      38.90        0.00
P058129        1999    BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION                          15.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      11.53      11.53        6.01
P050763        1999    BR- Fundescola 2                                 202.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      68.91     -41.09        0.00
P048869        1999    SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                             150.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     127.82      61.16        0.00
P048357        1998    CEN.BANK TAL                                      20.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       7.31       7.31        0.00
P051701        1998    MARANHAO R.POVERTY                                80.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      13.75      -8.71        0.00
P043421        1998    RJ M.TRANSITPRJ.                                 186.00       0.00                   0.00      17.17     146.86     162.13        0.00
P038895        1998    FED.WTR MGT                                      198.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     122.85     102.27       37.85
P042565        1998    PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                 60.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      32.53      12.17        0.00
P057910        1998    BR PENSION REFORM LIL                              5.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       3.33       3.33        -1.16
P035728        1998    BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                               51.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      32.72      27.68        4.63
P006559        1998    (BF-R)SP.TSP                                      45.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      38.47      38.47        0.00
P006474        1998     BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                        55.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      52.80      30.27       15.80
P036947        1998    BR- SC. & TECH 3                                 155.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     127.09     127.09        0.00
P043420        1998    WATER S.MOD.2                                    150.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     147.87     130.28       99.04
P006475        1997    LAND RFM PILOT                                    90.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      24.23      24.23        0.00
P006532        1997    FED HWY DECENTR                                  300.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     153.78     153.78        0.00
P038896        1997    R.POVERTY(RGN)                                    24.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       3.57        3.57       0.00
P006562        1997    BAHIA MUN.DV                                     100.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      63.06      56.73        -4.13
P043868        1997    RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                             100.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      66.97      39.77        2.42
P043871        1997    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                                  30.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       2.28       2.28        0.00
P043873        1997    AG TECH DEV.                                      60.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      35.88      31.56       11.88
P042566        1997    R.POVERTY(PE)                                     39.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       4.52       4.52        0.00
P046052        1997    CEARA WATER PILOT                                  9.60       0.00                  0.00        0.00       4.24       4.24        1.69
P048870        1997     BR MT STATE PRIV.                                45.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       5.00       5.00        5.00
P034578        1997    RGS HWY MGT                                       70.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      54.97      47.31       27.31
P040028        1996    RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                             350.00       0.00                   0.00      50.00      43.42      93.42       43.42
P006554        1996    BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS              300.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     132.51      132.51       0.00
P006210        1996    NAT'LBIODIVERSITY                                  0.00       0.00                  10.00       0.00       3.64        4.83       5.45
P037828        1996    BR (PR)RPOVERTY                                  175.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00     100.84      94.38       14.95
P044597        1996    BR BIODIVERSITY FUND                               0.00       0.00                 20.00        0.00       0.66       2.57        0.00
P006436        1995    Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource         140.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      22.68      22.68        5.94
P038882        1995    RECIFE M.TSP                                     102.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      34.52      34.52        0.00
P006564        1995    BELO H M.TSP                                      99.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      22.48       22.48       0.00
- 56 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                                and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY       Purpose                                   IBRD          IDA                    GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P006558        1994    BR- PARANA BASIC EDUC                          96.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.91       1.91       0.00
P006522        1994    ESP.SANTO WATER                               154.00       0.00                 0.00      54.00      18.29      72.29       6.67
P006524        1994    BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                        150.00       0.00                 0.00       9.70      20.75      30.45      2545
P006543        1994    BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                   150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       9.13       9.13       0.00
P006541        1993    BRWTRROPLN(SPIPR/FED)                         245.00       0.00                 0.00       5.15       6.05      11.20       1.57
P006454        1992    RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                          167.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      24.39      24.39       0.00
P006505        1992    MATO GROSSO NAT RES                           205.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      34.36      34.36       0.00
Total:    5755.88        0.00               45.00      139.53     2875.12    1805.42    312.33
- 57 -



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1987/96             Perdigao                   21.88    0.00    0.00    8.00   21.88    0.00    0.00    8.00
1989/95             Politeno Ind.                8.77    0.00    000    0.00    8.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00             Portobello                  16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                Puras                        5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Randon                       7.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1991                Rhodia-Ster                 1.43    5.95    0.00    0.00    1.43    5.95    0.00    0.00
1995                Rhodiaco/PTA                12.50    0.00    0.00    9.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    9.00
1990                Ripasa                      0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                Rodovia                    31.11    0.00    0.00   63.60   31.11    0.00    0.00   63.60
S.A.I.C.C.                  0.00    0.00    6.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.87    0.00
1994/96             SP Alpargatas              20.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1987/97             Sadia                      24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00   24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00
1994/95/97          Samarco                     13.50    0.00    0.00    9.33   13.50    0.00    0.00    9.33
1997                Samaritano                 20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                Saraiva                     12.69    3.00    0.00    0.00   12.69    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998                Sucorrico                   10.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                TIGRE                       17.31    0.00    5.00   10.68   17.31    0.00     5.00   10.68
1996                TRIKEM                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93             TeconRioGrande              7.50    0.00    5.50   18.00    6.65    0.00    5.50   15.95
1998                Votorantim                  5.86    0.00    0.00    0.43    5.86    0.00    0.00    0.43
1993                Vulcabras                  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                Wembley                     0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997                Wiest                       0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      8.00    0.00
1999                Arteb                      20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00   20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00
1998                AutoBAn                    35.00    0.00    0.00   31.00   22.84    0.00      0.00   20.23
1999                BACELL                      6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20    6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20
1993                BBA                        40.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                BSC                         11.53    0.00    0.00    6.18   11.53    0.00    0.00    6.18
1998                Bahia Sul                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92          Banco Bradesco              13.00    0.00    0.00   16.77   13.00    0.00    0.00   16.77
1996                Bompreco                   20.83    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.83    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                Bradesco-Bahia               1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991                Bradesco-Eucatex            5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                Bradesco-Hering             7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                Bradesco-Petrofl            7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                Bradesco-Romi               0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.00    0.00
1991                Brahma - BRA                12.50    0.00    5.00   12.30   12.50    0.00     5.00   12.30
1995                CEVAL                       0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96             CHAPECO                     15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96             CODEMIN                     0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.00    0.00
1973/78/83          CRP-Caderi                  0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00
1992                Cambuhy/MC                  11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                Copesul                    30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57   30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57
1997                Coteminas                   0.00    0.53     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53     0.00    0.00
1993/97/00
Total Portfolio:      763.81   145.07  132.21   852.27   667.74  117.01   128.91  809.80
- 58 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                        Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000                Sepetiba                       27.00      0.00      6.00     18.00
2001                Tecon Salvador                  3.50      0.00      1.00      5.00
2000                BBA                             0.00      0.00      0.00     50.00
1997                CTBC                           35.00     0.00      0.00    150.00
1999                Cibrasec                        0.00     0.00      7.50      0.00
1998                FSA                            35.00     10.00     0.00     45.00
1996                Globocabo II                    0.00     0.00      0.00     38.00
1998               Ipiranga-RI 2                    0.00     0.00      0.09      0.00
1999               MBR LTDP                        20.00     5.00      0.00    115.00
Total Pending Commitment:     120.50     15.00     14.59    421.00
- 59 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Brazil   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                        168.1       509        573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$J                     4,420      3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       742.7      1,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           1.4        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                          2.1        2.5       2.1      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  capita         p\            erimary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population ($6 of total population)                 81        75         76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          67        70         70                        l
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                 33        31         27
Child malnutrition 1% of children under 5)                 6         8          7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         ..        75         78
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                      15        12         10
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-ape population)     125       113        109        -Brazil
Male                                                                                         Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                  ..         .          ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           225.0    448.8       787.1     791.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP  -              22.8      24.8       21.3      21.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP              7.1       8.2        7.4       97                       Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                    20.7      28.0       18.6      21.7
Gross national savings/GDP                     18.0     25.0       16.3      18.8
Current account balancelGDP                    -4.7      0.4       -4.3      -3.1      .o/s\
Interest payments/GDP                           2.1      0.9        1.4       1.5      DomSan                       investment
Total debt/GDP                                27.3      25.5       29.5      28.0       avigs                        Ie n
Total debt servicelexports                    62.8      36.3       73.5     120.8
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..       27.9
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..      337.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.9      2.6      -0.1        1.0       4.0         -Brazil
GNP per caPita                        0.9      0.7      -1.4       -2.6       2.8           -   Upper-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services         8.9      4.2       0.2       -6.5       5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999    [Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                    11.0      8.5        8.4       8.4     10
Industry                                      40.6      42.7       28.8      31.7       s
Manufacturing                                31.0     29.5       22.7      22.7       o-
Services                                      48.3      48.8       62.8      59.9      -.     94          96   97         99
Private consumotion                           69.5      57.8       63.6      62.8    .10
General government consumption                 9.7      14.3       17.8      15.6                -GDl           0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  9.2       5.0       10.1       9.0
averageannualgrowth)1979-89  1989-99  1998  1999  Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    3.4       2.9        0.0       9.5    40
Industry                                       2.3       2.1       -1.3      -1.7
Manufacturing                                 1.9      1.1       -2.0      -0.7    20
Services                                       3.4       2.7        0.8       1.3
Private consumption                             1.9      5.8       -3.4       9.4      o         -
General government consumption                 6.4      -2.0        2.1      -9.3                                       v-
Gross domestic investment                      -0.1      2.4        0.1      -6.9    -20
Imports of goods and services                  -1.4     12.4        8.9     -17.4            -     Exports    -0Imports
Gross national oroduct                         2.9       2.2        0.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four keY indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 60 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999    r Inflation I%)
Domestic prices 
('A change)2.3
Consumer prices                                ..  1430.7       2.7       8.6
Implicit GDP deflator                       56.5  1,322.5       3.9      11.3
Government finance                                                                boe
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 , .
Current revenue                                                20.4     21.9                    -    Y6   97   9B   99
Current budqet balance                                         -4.4      -5.2                    DP deflator  -O9CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -5.5     -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and irmport levels (US$ Mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                34,375    51,140   48,011    75001
Coffee                                      ..   1,803       2,576    2.441
Soybeans                                    ..   3,647      4,755    3,784
Manufactures                                ..  17,575    31,964   30.251
Total imports (cifl                           ..  18,264    57,733   49.219
Food                                              1,249      3,057    2.078
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,753       1,965    2,169            9           9                99
Capital qoods                               ..   4,873    25,283    21,157
|  53  94  95  9B  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     98         92       86
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85         84       89                    E ,ports5   elImports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..    115        108       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             16,708   36,394    55,473   51 887 j
Imports of qoods and services             21,724   21,486    69,650   57,516
Resource balance                          -5,016   14,908   -14,177   -5,629
Net income                                -5,479  -13,265   -21,217  -20,786
Net current transfers                          5     249      1,778    2,040                        1          ,"     7 
Current account balance                  -10,490    1,892   -33,616  -24,375
Financinq items (net)                      7,703   -7,087    16,331    13,634
Changes in net reserves                    2,787    5,195    17,285   10,741
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)     9,045    7,672    43,971    35,725
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)        9.79E-12  1.03E-6       1.1       1 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      61,327  114,532   232,004  221,792
IBRD                                     1,790    8,311     6,298    6,822                      A 6822
IDA                                         0        0          0        0             C ;Oo4          C. 10,282
Total debt service                        11,310   14,122    47,887    73,694                 E-             D   9,904
IBRD                                      234    1,475      1,373     1,380
IDA                                         0        0          0        a
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            10       44         97        -,
Official creditors                        436      223      4,911    -1,077
Private creditors                        5,236   -3,716    21,930  -15,796
Foreigndirectinvestment                  2,419    1,267    31,913   26,916
Portfolio equity                            0        0       542     3,234                     7 41 i
World Bank program
Commitments                               674      933      1,290     1,465     A - IBRC                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             302      819      1,240     1,533     S3 -A BA   :eormUi,tiia1rEal 9 7 - Private
Principal repayments                       74      871       995       952                                    - Sho:t-term
Net flows                                 228      -52       245       580
Interest payments                         160      604       378       428
Net transfers                              67    -656        -133      153
Development Economics                                                                                              8/25/00
- 61 -






BRAZIL
FORTALEZA
ATLANTIC OCEAN:                                                                              METROOLITAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
-                                 . -               . .   .-9   ; <    t. 2  <                         RAIL LINES:
M   Froncisco S6 - . z MURIPE. S-> . ~ . BANK FINANCED PROJECT (WEST UNE)
JBIC FINANCED PROJECT (SOUTH LINE)
EXISTING RAILROADS
A n  o n i o e z er r o                                                                                                         . . . . . . w     n e r r u d         \ X . . ,    . .         " - ^ 2 F U T U R E   R A IL R O A D S
coucoio af                                                                                                 PAPICU-                  ;      
LPorque Soledode           }                                  }   Podre Cicero                  -              :       - .   \\    <       g              STATIONS:
*5   Novo             _  sdO Miguel                         Porongobussu           .    /                  -                 \ . : .             *       FIRST STAGE STATIONS
soF d*   SECOND   STAGE  STATIONS
Aroturi Montesew                                                                                                                                             . -  .- - -- -- 9 *  TUNNEL STATIONS
|           JurftnJu                   Parngabo f                                           
N                     Vila Pery                                                  #                                                    .    .       . This=nwop wos pnvdued by ih. Map Design Unit of The World banp.
The Monael Solors. denominfatons and any otlseinformation
sham an this map do not imply, on the part of The Worl Bank
U                                                                                                                              Goop,oMny Iodcmenn an =th anthelegal status of ony eri.% or any
Monad |vtiia             d-01<   Ia                      Ls LA                                 Flodrnmnetst ot f aotanCet at osuch boundaries.
AINTENANCE             P                                                                                                                                COA        N
mwdu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Conuunr  o EsperNAME                                                                                                   N
RAILWAY                                                                     z~~~~~~~~~~~~ERA 
Pojup                                                                           ft t'~~~~~~~~~~~~YA/ NA                                             10GRNG
NoornC                                                                                              I                         PIAI                                     DONORT
PERU(  ~-4
*1                  ~~BRASI~ 
Jereissoh                                                                                                                                                                      J
>                      V~~~~~~: 'ila dos FlaresPAIB
                                                                                                                                          "-'~~*OCEANq                                                      00
~~eo' URUGUAY                                I~PE381Il
MAINTENANCE SHOP                                                                                        i'-PRABC                                                       8



