Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 
7083
 - BR
State Agreement
(Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF CEARÁ
Dated August 1, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 
7083
 - BR
STATE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF CEARÁ (the 
State).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Page  2
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to ninety-eight million six hundred thousand Euro (EUR98,600,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but on condition, 
inter alia
,
that the 
State agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower and into the Project Agreement of even date herewith with 
Companhia Brasileira 
de Trens Urbanos
 – 
CBTU
 (CBTU) and 
Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos 
–
METROFOR
 (METROFOR), has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Obligations of the State
Section 2.01.
(a)  The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall collaborate with CBTU and 
METROFOR in the carrying out of the Project by taking, promptly as needed, all action required 
on its part for the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, and not taking or permitting to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
the carrying out of the Project as provided in the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
State specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds 
allocated to the Project will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the 
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide 
METROFOR or cause METROFOR to be provided, as set forth in the 
Convênio Básico
,
with 
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures. 
Section 2.02.
For the purpose of ensuring the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project, the State shall:
(a)
not later than one year after the Effective Date, offer or cause METROFOR to 
offer to the private sector, through a competitive public bidding procedure, either: (i) the 
operation and management of the STU-FOR/METROFOR System; or (ii) some of the activities 
Page  3
under the STU-FOR/METROFOR System, such as maintenance of rolling stock, operations, or 
maintenance of track.  Only if none of such offers attracts interested bidders, the State shall 
furnish to the Bank an alternative plan for promotion of private sector participation in the 
STU-FOR/METROFOR System;
(b)
maintain, within 
Conselho Deliberativo da Região Metropolitana de Fortaleza
, a 
regional transport coordination commission (the RTCC) with the responsibility for providing a 
common transport coordination and planning forum for the State, the municipalities which form 
part of the FMR, and the providers of bus transportation services in the FMR;
(c)
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with at least the Municipalities 
of Caucaia and Maracanaú, as specified in Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, providing for 
the carrying out of an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the integration of metrorail and 
bus services in each such 
municipality based on
 the recommendations of the Transport 
Integration Study, such action plan to start to be implemented not later than 30 days after the 
respective rehabilitation and modernization works of the South Line and the West Line have 
been completed, whichever is applicable to any such municipality (the Integrated Transport 
Agreement);
(d)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Integrated Transport 
Agreement in such a manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the State shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
such agreement, or any provision thereof;
(e)
initiate, promptly after the rehabilitation and modernization works of the South 
Line and the West Line have been completed, the carrying out, in accordance with the terms 
thereof, of the plan for integration of the metropolitan bus and metrorail services in the FMR, 
which was furnished to the Bank with the letter dated May 12, 2000, as such plan may be 
modified from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and
(f)
maintain the 
Agência de Regulação do Ceará
,
the public services regulatory 
agency of the State, or any successor thereof, with the responsibility to supervise and regulate the 
operation of metropolitan transport systems in the State.
Section 2.03.
The State shall participate in the reviews referred to in Section 2.08 of 
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02.
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and the State hereunder 
Page  4
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03.
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01.
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other 
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making 
such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
    64145 (MCI)
For the State:
Secretaria da Infra-Estrutura do
  Estado do Ceará
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgilio Távora
Edifício SEPLAN-CAMBEBA, 1andar
60839-900 Fortaleza, Ceará
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-85) 4883516
With copies to:
Page  5
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil 
Facsimile:
(55-61) 2254022
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-21) 2208-1780
Ministério dos Transportes
Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "R" - 4 andar
70044-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-61) 3117979
Companhia Cearense de
  Transportes Metropolitanos - METROFOR
Rua 24 de Maio, 60 - Centro
60020-001 Fortaleza, Ceará
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-85) 4557016
Section 4.02.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of the State, or such other person or persons as he or she shall 
designate in writing, and the State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Page  6
Fortaleza, State of Ceará, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jorge M. Rebelo
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARÁ
By /s/ Benedito Clayton Veras Alcântara
By /s/ Paulo Rubens Fontenele Albuquerque
Authorized Representatives
