Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 
7083
 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 1, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 
7083
 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 2002, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) in view of the provisions of the Borrower's Constitution governing 
public metropolitan urban transport and the Borrower's Laws No. 8693, dated August 3, 1993, 
and 10233, dated June 5, 2001, as amended, and in order to improve the operational efficiency 
Page  2
and financial performance of suburban railways services and facilitate their integration with 
other transport services in the FMR (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (c) of this 
Agreement), the Borrower, 
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
 – 
CBTU 
(CBTU) and the 
State of Ceará (the State) have agreed, pursuant to an agreement dated April 22, 1997, as 
amended on October 17, 2001 (the 
Convênio Básico
), on the transfer of the ownership, 
management and operation of CBTU’s assets in the FMR (the STU-FOR/METROFOR System) 
to the State, through 
Companhia Cearense de Transportes Metropolitanos
 – 
METROFOR
 
(METROFOR);
(B)
the STU-FOR/METROFOR System comprises the South Line and the West Line 
(as such terms are defined in Section 1.02 (i) and (k), respectively);
(C)
to attain the objectives of such transfer of ownership, management and 
operation, the Borrower, CBTU, the State and METROFOR have agreed that it is necessary to 
carry out the rehabilitation and modernization of the South Line and the West Line;
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; 
(E)
as provided in Article II of the agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, 
CBTU and METROFOR (the Project Agreement), the Project will be carried out by 
METROFOR and CBTU, with the Borrower’s and State’s assistance, and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CBTU the proceeds of the loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan), as set forth in this Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Project 
Agreement, and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the State (the State 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
Page  3
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants' services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"FMR" means the metropolitan region of the city of Fortaleza, established by the 
State’s 
Lei Complementar
 No. 18, of December 29, 1999, comprising the Municipality of 
Fortaleza and other twelve municipalities surrounding the city of Fortaleza;
(d)
"Integrated Transport Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
2.02 (c) (i) of the State Agreement;
(e)
"PCU" means the unit within METROFOR referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the 
Project Agreement;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Resettlement Plan" means the plan, issued by the State on March 27, 2000, for 
the relocation (
desapropriação
)
of
the population affected by the carrying out of Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(h)
"RTCC" means the regional transport coordination commission referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of the State Agreement;
(i)
"South Line" means the railway portion of the STU-FOR/METROFOR System 
which links the center of the city of Fortaleza (João Felipe station) to the Municipality of 
Pacatuba (Vila das Flores station), with a length of about 24 kilometers;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(k) Transport Integration Study" means the study referred to in Part B.1 of the Project; 
and
(l)
"West Line" means the railway portion of the STU-FOR/METROFOR System 
which links the center of the city of Fortaleza (João Felipe station) to the center of the city of 
Caucaia, with a length of about 19 kilometers.
Section 1.03.
Each reference in the General Conditions to a Project implementation 
Page  4
entity shall be deemed as a reference to CBTU and METROFOR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ninety-eight million six hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR98,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, CBTU, METROFOR and the State 
of such later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of said fee.
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06.
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at the Variable 
Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  5
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.
(a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.
The Minister of Transportation of the Borrower and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
CBTU to perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable CBTU to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project as provided in this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make available to CBTU, through annual budget allocations, the proceeds of the Loan and the 
counterpart funds required on the part of the Borrower for the Project.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
Page  6
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by METROFOR or CBTU, as the case may be, 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transportation shall participate in 
the Project reviews referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be, submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
Page  7
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
CBTU or METROFOR or the State shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the State Agreement, as the case may be. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CBTU or 
METROFOR or the State will be able to perform any of their respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the State Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, CBTU, METROFOR and the State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The ownership, management, and operation of the STU-FOR/METROFOR 
System have been transferred from the Borrower, through CBTU, to the State, through 
METROFOR, as provided in the 
Convênio Básico
.
(b)
The Integrated Transport Agreement has been entered into between the 
respective parties thereto.
Section 6.02.
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Page  8
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
The Loan has been validly registered by the Central Bank of Brazil.
(b)
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CBTU and  
METROFOR, and is legally binding upon CBTU and METROFOR in accordance with its terms. 
(c)
The State Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the State, and is 
legally binding upon the State in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.
The date October 31, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower: 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8º andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-61) 4121740
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Page  9
Facsimile:
(55-61) 2254022
Ministério dos Transportes
Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "R" - 4 andar
70044-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-61) 3117979
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address:                          Telex:
   Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD                          248423 (MCI) or     (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.                       64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in city of 
Fortaleza, State of Ceará, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Dias Martins Filho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ 
Jorge M. Rebelo
Authorized Representative
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
           Amount of the
          Loan Allocated
     % of
           (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
Euro)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods 
under Part A.1
of the Project:
(a)
metrorail systems
15,764,000
50%
(b)
rolling stock
26,274,000
50%
(2)
Works under
Part A.1 of the
Project
41,540,000
65%
(3)
Consultants’ services
3,932,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(4)
Front-end fee
986,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
10,104,000
                                  TOTAL
98,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower; and
Page  11
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount of EUR9,860,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 12 months before the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for consulting firms' services that are 
not subject to the Bank's prior review as set forth in Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in a commercial 
bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received:  (i) the first Project Management Report; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all 
further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 
1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of:  (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Page  13
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
EUR9,860,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
Page  14
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed EUR19,720,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of public urban transport in 
the FMR by developing a fully integrated urban transport system under the coordination of the 
RTCC; (b) to carry out the transfer of the ownership, management and operation of the 
STU-FOR/METROFOR System; and (c) to promote private sector participation in the operation 
and management of such system. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
1.
Rehabilitation and modernization of the West Line, including: (a) the transfer stations 
between road and rail based systems, consisting of:  (i) about 19 line-kilometers of infrastructure 
and superstructure works, rehabilitation of about 13 bridges and viaducts, rehabilitation works in 
the areas surrounding the stations and in the grade crossings, and road works in the area of 
influence of such line; (ii) installation of signalling, telecommunications and electrification 
facilities, escalators and elevators, a central control system, automatic train control equipment, 
air conditioning, ventilation, fans and ancillary equipment; and (iii) acquisition of rolling stock 
(eight train sets); and (b) carrying out of the Resettlement Plan.  
2.
Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the management and supervision of the carrying 
Page  15
2.
Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the management and supervision of the carrying 
out of Part A.1 above; and (b) the strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to coordinate Project 
implementation.
Part B
: Institutional and Policy Development
1.
Carrying out of studies for the preparation of an integrated urban transport policy, land 
use and air quality management strategy for the FMR to meet appropriate transport and air 
quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies, 
including a study on the integration of the public transportation system in the FMR, covering the 
physical, operational, financial and institutional aspects of the integration of the transportation 
modalities in the FMR (the Transport Integration Study).
2.
Provision of technical assistance: (a) for the strengthening of RTCC's capacity to carry 
out its functions; and (b) if necessary, in matters related to the transfer of ownership, 
management and operation of the STU-FOR/METROFOR System.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
July 15, 2007
20%
July 15, 2008
20%
July 15, 2009
20%
July 15, 2010
20%
July 15, 2011
20%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
Page  16
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall no longer apply 
to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
