                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001726



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-70830)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO98.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                     FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                      FOR A

            FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT



                                 March 30, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective March 11, 2011)

                  Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                     R$ 1.00 = US$ 0.60
                     US$ 1.00 = R$1.66

                       FISCAL YEAR
                  [January 1 – December 31]


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARCE         State of Ceara Regulatory Agency
CBTU         Brazilian Urban Train Company
DO           Development Objectives
EMU          Electric Multiple Units
ETTUSA       Empresa de Transito e Transporte Urbano S.A.
EAS          Environmental Assessment Study
FM           Municipality of Fortaleza
FMR          Fortaleza Metropolitan Region
GoB          Brazilian Federal Government
IERR         Internal Economic Rate of Return
JBIC         Japan Bank for International Cooperation
Metrofor     Ceara Metropolitan Transport Company
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
PAR          Performance Audit Report
PCR          Project Completion Report
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSP          Private Sector Participation
PIPP         Public Investment Pilot Program
RTCC         Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SC           State Government of Ceara
SEINFRA      Secretariat of Infrastructure of Ceara
SEMACE       Cearl State Environmental Agency
STU/FOR      Fortaleza subdivision of the Brazilian Urban Train Company


                 Vice President: Pamela Cox
               Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
           Project Team Leader: Jorge Rebelo
              ICR Team Leader: Aurelio Menendez
                                BRAZIL
                FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 34
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            FORTALEZA
                                                                            METROPOLITAN
Country:                Brazil                    Project Name:
                                                                            TRANSPORT
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P060221                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70830
ICR Date:               03/30/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            FEDERATIVE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                            BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 85.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 34.81M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 22.40M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 CBTU
 Metrofor
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/19/1999       Effectiveness:           09/09/2002          09/09/2002
Appraisal:            05/25/2000       Restructuring(s):                            03/22/2006
Approval:             12/04/2001       Mid-term Review:         02/27/2006          02/17/2006
                                       Closing:                 03/31/2006          09/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory              Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:



                                                  i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                           100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                         50                  50
Infrastructure services for private sector development                   50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:            Makhtar Diop                         Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:              Aurelio Menendez                     Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:         Aurelio Menendez                     Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Team Leader:             Aurelio Menendez
ICR Primary Author:          Jose Ricardo Marar
                             Shomik Raj Mehndiratta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) improve the quality of public urban transport in the FMR by enhancing the de
velopment of a fully integrated urban transport system under the coordination of a
Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) and rehabilitate the Metro for
West Line; (b) to transfer the STU/FOR system from the Federal to the State




                                                  ii
government; and (c) increase the private sector participation in the operatio n and
management of the Metrofor system (West and South lines) generated text

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval            Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values         Target Years
                  Percentage of rail stations physically and tariff integrated with the bus lines
Indicator 1 :
                  (integration related objective)
Value
quantitative or   0%                         50%                                50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                         09/20/2010
Comments
                  Physical integration complete. Tariff integration ongoing and expected to be
(incl. %
                  completed by end 2011
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Rail share of urban transport motorized trips (%) (congestion related objective)
Value
quantitative or   2%                         10%                                2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                         09/26/2010
Comments
                  Likely to reach 5% in 20 months after operations. Operations scheduled to start
(incl. %
                  in 2011
achievement)
                  Generalized cost of travel (travel time plus fare plus reliability) in minutes
Indicator 3 :     between Caucaia and João Felipe (accessibility of low-income users related
                  objective)
Value
quantitative or   93                         65                                 70
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                         09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Decentralization of STU-FOR to State
Value
quantitative or   Not decentralized          Completed                          Completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2002                         06/15/2002
Comments
(incl. %          Systems transferred to the State and Decentralization completed
achievement)


                                                   iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                        Revised
                                             approval                             Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of the Permanent Way Works completed
Value
(quantitative     0%                         100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                      09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     % of other Civil Works completed
Value
(quantitative     0                          100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                      09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     % of Rolling Stock and System works completed
Value
(quantitative     0%                         100%                            70%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                      09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Substantially achieved. Remaining two trainsets are under construction
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Private Sector Participation
Value
                  No Private Sector
(quantitative                                Modeling revised                Modeling revised
                  Participation
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                      09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Establishment and strengthening of formal RTCC
Value
                                             No target values                Regular monthly
(quantitative     Start periodic meetings
                                             reported                        meetings
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                      09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Integrated Urban Transport, Land Use and Air Quality Strategy


                                                 iv
                                         Final report                         Final report
Value
                                         discussed in a                       discussed in a
(quantitative   Draft report completed
                                         participatory                        participatory
or Qualitative)
                                         manner                               manner
Date achieved 11/26/2001                 11/26/2005                           09/26/2010
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                            IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     05/09/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/09/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     08/13/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     09/18/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  5     11/19/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
  6     04/04/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
  7     07/29/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
  8     11/24/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
  9     12/02/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
 10     05/04/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
 11     05/26/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                     0.98
 12     11/30/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                     0.98
 13     04/07/2005       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                     0.98
 14     12/12/2005    Moderately Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     0.98
 15     04/15/2006        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               0.98
                                                         Moderately
 16     12/04/2006    Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.98
                                                       Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
 17     01/18/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.98
                                                       Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
 18     04/13/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.98
                                                       Unsatisfactory
 19     11/21/2007    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.17
 20     01/22/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.81
 21     09/19/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               5.30
 22     04/09/2009    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              11.66
 23     11/10/2009    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              15.79
 24     04/09/2010    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              19.63
 25     10/20/2010    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              32.89


H. Restructuring (if any)



                                                v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Due to macroeconomic
                                                     conditions and pressures no
                                                     fiscal space had been provided
                                                     for the project after Board
                                                     approval. Consequently
                                                     implementation had not
                                                     commenced and there was no
                                                     disbursement (apart from the
                                                     front-end fee). After extended
                                                     discussions, the project was
 03/22/2006       N       MS     U            0.98   restructured within a sharply
                                                     reduced budget envelope (total
                                                     costs were reduced from about
                                                     US$200m to US$30m). No
                                                     changes were made in the
                                                     PDOs, but the components were
                                                     changed. A reduced set of
                                                     investments that supported the
                                                     PDOs were agreed upon. Bank
                                                     disbursement percentage was
                                                     increased to 100 percent.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vi
vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at appraisal

1. This project was appraised in mid 2001, months before the September 11, 2001
   terrorist attack in the US and 2001-2002 Argentine economic and fiscal crisis, which
   together had significant unforeseen implications for the project. From 1988 to 1998,
   GDP growth averaged 2.4 percent in Brazil. The economy had been under stress but
   in mid-2001 seemed to be on the road to recovery. In the aftermath of the Asian
   financial crisis of 1997 and the Russian financial crisis of 1998, Brazil lost an
   estimated $50 billion in foreign reserves due to capital flight. On 13 January 1999
   the Brazilian Central Bank devalued the real by 8 percent; on 15 January 1999, the
   Cardoso government announced that the real would no longer be pegged to the US
   dollar, ending the so-called ‘Real Plan’. Immediately, the real lost more than 30
   percent of its value, and subsequent devaluation made the real lose a total of 45
   percent of its value. Despite the devaluation; however, the economy showed
   positive, if weak, growth in both 1998 (0.2 percent) and 1999 (0.8 percent), and
   inflation remained under control, at 3.2 percent in 1998 and 4.9 percent in 1999.
   Brazil's debt service ratio which had soared to an untenable 113.1 percent of export
   earnings in 1999, had also reduced to 90.8 percent by 2000 and to 78.5 percent by
   2001, helped by a weakening real that made exports more competitive. GDP grew
   4.5 percent in 2000, led by exports, while inflation picked up to 7 percent.

2. Three other features of the national economic environment at that time are worth
   noting. First, many states (including the State of Ceara where the project was
   located) were operating with significant fiscal deficits that limited their fiscal space.
   Second, the country was in the midst of decentralization of authority and
   responsibility from federal to state and local levels in specific sectors including
   urban transport. Third, urban poverty was a significant concern, with limited access
   to public services by the poor being particularly critical.

3. The Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the World Bank Board in
   March 2000 with an overall focus on poverty reduction responded to this
   environment with five ‘pillars’ relevant to this project: (i) targeted interventions to
   reduce poverty, among others through the provision of urban services to the poor;
   (ii) sustainable fiscal adjustment, among others through reform of public enterprises;
   (iii) renewed growth, among others through private sector participation in
   infrastructure management; (iv) improved government effectiveness and; (v)
   effective government management.

4. The project was framed in the context of a larger program of investments, policy
   dialogue and sectoral reform in the urban transport sector. Since 1992 the Bank had

                                            1
       been working with the government on a program that had: (i) supported the
       decentralization of ownership and management and responsibility of urban transport
       systems from the federal to regional authorities; (ii) supported the development of
       regional authorities as a means to increase integration across fragmented local
       governments in metropolitan areas; and (iii) supported private sector involvement in
       infrastructure provision, as a source both for efficiencies and private finance.

    5. The project was located in the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (FMR); Brazil’s 8th
       largest metropolitan region with a population of 2.6 million inhabitants spread across
       13 individual municipalities1. At the time, buses carried 60 percent of motorized
       trips. Suburban rail carried about 2.5 percent. Cars (23 percent), and bicycles and
       motorcycles (11.5 percent) accounted for most of the others. Buses were privately
       operated and there was no fare or operational integration between bus systems or
       between bus and rail systems. Access was a particular problem for the poor,
       concentrated in the metropolitan periphery, such as in the regions of Caucaia (in the
       west) and Maracanau (in the south). Journeys were long (1.5 to 2 hours a day for a
       round trip), expensive (costing up to a fourth of incomes), and often involving
       multiple transfers on overcrowded buses.

    6. The State of Ceara (SC) and the Fortaleza Municipality (FM) had looked at this
       project as a means to improve metropolitan transport and transform the western
       corridor connecting the Fortaleza city center to Caucaia by: (i) increasing
       coordination between the local and state governments responsible for the provision
       of urban and suburban transport; (ii) transformation of a limited passenger service
       on the Metrofor west line connecting the center to Caucaia (STU/FOR corridor) into
       a modern high quality operation fully integrated with buses and other modes; and
       (iii) the introduction of private sector participation in urban transport systems.

    7. The project was designed to complement works on a Southern rail corridor
       connecting the city center to Maracanau. This 24 km corridor extends south from
       central Fortaleza (Joao Felipe) to Pacatuba (Vila das Flores). The project included
       double-tracking, electrification, construction of 18 stations including 4 underground
       stations and about 3.9 km of underground construction. Ten (10) electric trains of
       four (4) coaches each were to be acquired and 16km of parallel freight tracks were
       also to be constructed. The total project cost was estimated to be US$ 326 million
       and JBIC financing of US$268 million was approved in April 1997 to partially
       finance the project.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and key indicators

    8. The original PDO’s (as approved in the PAD in November 2001) were:


1
  Fortaleza, Aquiraz, Caucaia, Eusebio, Maracanau, Maranguape, Itaitinga, Guaiba, Pacatuba, Pacajus, Chorozinho,
Sao Goncalo do Amarante and Horizonte. FM had 1.8 million inhabitants and Caucaia and Maracanaui were the other
two important municipalities of the FMR.




                                                        2
   a. To improve the quality of public urban transport in the FMR by enhancing the
      development of a fully integrated urban transport system under the coordination of
      a RTCC and rehabilitate the Metrofor West Line. These objectives would be
      achieved by: (i) modal integration – to be measured by estimating the percentage of
      stations where bus/rail integration is provided; (ii) congestion related - by
      measuring the increase in the rail share in urban transport motorized trips; and (iii)
      accessibility of low-income user - by measuring the generalized cost of travel
      (travel time plus fare plus reliability).
   b. To transfer the STU/FOR system from the federal to the provincial (state)
      government, measured by: decentralizing the system from the federal agency
      CBTU to the State government.
   c. To increase the private sector participation in the operation and management of the
      Metrofor system (West and South lines). This objective would be achieved by
      competitively concessioning operations and management of the Metrofor system to
      a private operator (both the West and South lines).

9. The project had six output indicators that measured component progress. Key
   performance indicators are shown in detail in section F of the Data Sheet.

1.3 Revised PDO, key indicators and reasons/justification

10. While there was no change in the project, PDOs, the project was formally
    restructured in 2006 after several delays resulting from deterioration in Brazil’s
    economic and fiscal climate following the 2001-2002 Argentine debt crisis (see
    paragraph 24). The new federal government that had taken office in January 2003
    concluded that it did not have the budgetary resources to support the project in light
    of the then current fiscal conditions (see Section 1.6).           As a result of this
    restructuring, the size of the project was significantly reduced through a reduction in
    the scope of activities and adoption of an alternative low-cost technology to achieve
    many of the desired improvements (see Sections 1.6, 1.7 and 2). The original PDO,
    however, was maintained as its formulation remained relevant even under the scaled
    down project.

1.4 Main beneficiaries

11. The PAD explicitly identifies the residents of the FMR as beneficiaries, particularly
    low-income households (defined as those earning up to four times the minimum
    salary). Such low-income residents of Caucaia commuting to the Fortaleza city
    center would have been key beneficiaries, benefiting from significantly lower travel
    times and improved service resulting from integrated bus rail fares and facilities on
    the Metrofor west line. To the extent the increased rail capacity would have led to a
    reduction in the number of buses operating on the corridor, residents in the entire
    corridor would have benefited from reductions in air and noise pollution. The users
    of private autos in the corridor would likely have also seen some temporary benefits
    from decreased congestion for the same reasons.




                                            3
1.5 Original components

12. The original components of the project (as taken from the Loan Agreement, dated
    August 2002) comprised:
   a. An Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component (total $173.2m, WB
      $82m) that supported (i) rehabilitation and modernization of the West Line,
      including improvements to stations, intermodal transfer facilities, track and related
      infrastructure along the corridor, rehabilitation works in the areas surrounding the
      stations and at grade crossings, and acquisition of rolling stock (eight train sets);
      and (ii) consultants for project management and supervision.
   b. An Institutional and Policy Development Component (total $2.15m, WB $2.15m)
      that supported by means of technical assistance (i) the decentralization of the
      Metrofor system to the State of Cerea; (ii) capacity building to strengthen the newly
      established RTCC; and (iii) various studies related to urban transport policy and
      planning.

1.6 Revised components

13. The loan agreement was amended to facilitate project implementation in light of
    unfavorable macroeconomic conditions and fiscal conditions (see Sections 1.7 and
    2). In March 2006, in response to a request from the Borrower, the project was
    restructured with a significantly reduced scope of work, while maintaining the
    original objectives. As a result of this restructuring: (i) original plans to electrify the
    line were dropped, and only short sections of the 19km line were double tracked; (ii)
    the scope of works around the stations and at grade crossings were significantly
    reduced; (iii) the number of train sets to be acquired was reduced from ten to six; and
    (iv) some of the studies were cancelled. Works included station rehabilitation;
    infrastructure and superstructure works including rehabilitation of bridges and
    viaducts; and rehabilitation works in the areas around the stations and in grade
    crossings, and in the area of influence of the line. Facilities and components of
    automatic ticketing systems were to be procured as well as enhanced signaling at
    grade crossings. While there were other amendments to the loan agreement (see
    Section 1.7), there were no other significant changes in the Project’s components.

14. In effect, as a result of this restructuring, what was initially designed as a project to
    increase line capacity and to increase ridership (double tracking, electrification,
    purchase of high-quality air conditioned coaches) became almost a rail maintenance
    project, with limited line upgrades and measures to upgrade rolling stock (with some
    new purchases complementing rehabilitation of existing stock). These technical
    changes preserved many of the envisioned benefits for the poorest users but had
    substantial impacts on line capacity, ridership, and the ability to achieve objectives
    related to congestion alleviation.

1.7 Other significant changes

15. Though the project became effective by September 2002, even by mid-2005
    implementation had not begun because the Borrower (the federal government) did


                                              4
         not provide adequate budget space for the counterpart funding that was needed to
         enable the loan to start disbursing. In May 2004, the Bank rated project performance
         as unsatisfactory, and discussed a variety of options with the Borrower including
         Loan cancellation. By late 2004 the Borrower indicated they wanted to avoid
         outright cancellation but were looking to reduce project costs and scope. At that
         stage the Bank team helped to prepare a variety of options to avoid the cancellation2.

    16. After extended discussions with the Bank, the Borrower took actions that provided a
        limited amount of fiscal space for the Project. In August 2005, the Borrower decided
        to include the project in its Public Investment Pilot Program (PIPP), which allowed
        disbursements to be de-linked from its primary fiscal surplus targets. An agreement
        was signed to this effect between the federal government, the state of Ceara, CBTU
        and Metrofor in November 2005, and the federal government committed to fulfilling
        the revised project disbursement targets through the end of 2007. The inclusion of
        this project in the PIPP meant that the budgeted funds over the period 2006-07
        (R$70m or approximately US$30m, to be 100 percent reimbursed from loan funds)
        would be made entirely available.

    17. In March 2006, the project was restructured and the loan amended at the request of
        the Borrower, in light of this available fiscal space. The project scope and total cost
        were sharply reduced, though the original PDOs were maintained for their relevance.
        The key changes in project components were described in Section 1.6. Additionally:
        (i) Euro 72.614m (or close to 75 percent) of the original loan of Euro 98.6m was
        cancelled; (ii) total project cost was reduced from $193.8m to about $30m (or Euro
        22m equivalent3) in line with the reduced scope; (iii) funds were reallocated across
        disbursement categories; (iv) disbursement percentages for all disbursement
        categories were increased to 100 percent; and (v) the closing date of the loan was
        extended 24 months to March 30, 2008.

    18. The loan was amended a second time in March 2008, at the Borrower’s request to
        extend the closing date for the loan to September 30, 2010, and a four month grace
        period following the revised closing date was granted for disbursements related to
        activities undertaken prior to the closing date.

    19. Apart from the loan amendments, the project was also changed on two occasions (in
        2007 and 2009) in the form of additional funds provided by the state (the state of
        Ceara) to support the rehabilitation of existing rolling stock that was not being
        financed by the Loan.


    2
       One was to combine the West line as part of the South line project under implementation. The second (finally selected) was
    reducing project scope and its inclusion into the ongoing IMF Public Investment Pilot Program (PIPP) thereby allowing for
    disbursements to be de-linked from its primary fiscal surplus targets. The third was to leverage the fiscal space of Ceara State by
    transferring the project to Ceara State as the Borrower. This would have required the Federal Government to assume some of the
    State’s existing debt.

3
    The values in Euros do not add up due to the significant exchange rate fluctuations.




                                                                      5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20. The project was prepared within a context where the Bank’s ongoing dialogue with
    the borrower and stressed: (a) promoting reforms and financial viability of public
    enterprises, including the concession of state-owned urban transport agencies to the
    private sector; (b) increasing the efficiency of infrastructure investments; (c)
    encouraging economic growth by improving efficiency in the metropolitan area and
    (d) contributing to poverty alleviation by improving accessibility of low-income
    segments of the population to jobs, educational and health facilities.

21. The project drew on a long history of the World Bank policy dialogue, lending and
    sector work on transport in Brazil including seven Bank-financed projects in public
    transport in the country (Loans 1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1965-BR, 3547-BR, 3633-BR,
    3915-BR, and 3916-BR). As part of this relationship, the Bank was supporting the
    decentralization of urban rail systems from a federal agency (CBTU) to state and
    municipal agencies in Sao Paulo, Rio, Salvador and Belo Horizonte. Though this
    decentralization was required as per the Brazilian constitution, previous experience
    had indicated the value of ensuring this decentralization was completed in the early
    stages of a Bank-supported investment project.

22. Previous experience had also indicated that while decentralization and local
    management would be beneficial to the system and to users, it needed to be
    complemented with investments in system improvements as well as support for
    institutional strengthening at the metropolitan level for benefits to be maximized.

23. In this context, modal integration – between buses and rail, creating functional
    regional transport authorities and finding appropriate roles for the private sector had
    emerged as important yet difficult elements of the agenda. Experience from
    previous projects suggested that all three of these issues were critical to a well
    functioning urban transport system, but needed continuous engagement and always
    uncertain prospects of success in the short-term. Integrated tariffs’ across bus
    systems and between bus and rail, for example, required agreements between
    (usually private) bus operators and with the rail system. Establishing a functioning
    regional transport authority required a favorable political environment. The
    introduction of the private sector was considerably complicated if the economic or
    political environment was not stable.

2.2 Project Implementation

24. The most significant factor affecting project implementation had to do with changes
    in macroeconomic conditions and funding constraints in the 2001-2002 period.
    The September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States, Argentina’s debt default in late
    2001 and subsequent recession, and market jitters ahead of Brazil’s presidential



                                            6
         elections led to higher inflation, lower foreign direct investment, a significant
         depreciation of the real, higher interest rates, and lower economic growth4. This
         combination of events subjected the Brazilian economy to significant economic
         stress.

    25. Growth then fell to 1.4 percent in 2001 as the Argentine situation, the US recession,
        and the global slowdown dampened export demand. In 2002, debt service payments
        were running at over 80 percent of exports (a debt service ratio of 80.3 percent) as
        export markets continued slow after the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the
        United States, and, as investors became increasingly anxious about the political risks
        associated with a presidential election in October 2002. There were also questions
        about whether existing standby arrangements with the IMF would be extended. In
        September 2002 the expiring 2001 arrangements with the IMF were replaced by two
        more one-year standby arrangements with a $30 billion line of credit just as the
        currency exchange rate and the Brazilian stock market index—the Bovespa index—
        were reaching historic lows.

    26. A new federal administration took office in January 1st, 2003. Both the exchange
        rate and the Bovespa index improved after the election and into the first quarter
        2003; the improvements were in part because the incoming government was proving
        to follow prudent macro-economic and fiscal management. In February 2003, the
        government announced its target for a primary fiscal surplus (that is, the surplus
        before interest payments are made to service debts) at 4.25 percent, higher than the
        3.75 percent agreed to with the IMF.
               

    27. The combination of a difficult macroeconomic environment and change in
        government at the same time was particularly difficult for this project. The new
        administration was focusing on improving the macroeconomic environment and
        argued it lacked fiscal capacity to undertake the entire project as it had been
        approved.

    28. A number of reinforcing co-related factors seem to have lead to this decision. First,
        to achieve the government’s primary fiscal surplus targets required the federal
        government to significantly cut capital spending. This austerity drive undoubtedly
        made all capital spending difficult for federally supported projects. Then, the
        decentralization agenda that this project was supporting was not at that time an
        immediate priority of the new government. Additionally, this project had to compete
        with several other ongoing suburban rail projects in Salvador Bahia, Belo Horizonte
        and Recife, that supported decentralization with federally financed (partially World
        Bank financed) loans. Though all of these projects were affected due to the
        changing environment, this project suffered in particular. While the other projects
        were already in implementation, this one had not yet commenced at the time of the


4
     See World Bank. 2004. Brazil: Equitable, Competitive, Sustainable. Contributions for Debate, Chapters 12 and 13.  



                                                                    7
    crisis and was thus easiest to reprioritize. Finally, this project had to compete for
    counterpart funds with the JBIC-financed South line in Fortaleza, which was
    significantly more advanced.

29. As a result, project implementation could not commence due to the absence of
    counterpart funds: against the contractual commitments with the Bank,
    appropriations in the federal budget for the project were not included in the budget at
    all. Note that if the appropriation were not budgeted, then the Bank loan could not
    disburse. Furthermore, disbursement of budgeted funds was restricted. (This
    situation also affected other Bank-financed projects, such as Salvador, P048869,
    Recife, P038882; and Belo Horizonte, P006564).

30. By 2004 the project was flagged as non-performing due to delays in implementation
    and slow disbursement. The Bank initiated discussions with the Borrower on a range
    of alternatives to address this issue including project cancellation, and restructuring.
    After an extended dialogue between government and the Bank, the project was
    finally restructured in March 2006 with a sharply reduced scope as discussed in
    Sections 1.6 and 1.7.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design

31. M&E System Design. The M&E system of the original project was appropriately
    designed to measure the achievement of the development objectives of the original
    design. However, the target indicators could have been updated as part of the March
    2006 restructuring before implementation commenced. At the time the task team
    decided not to change the target values of the indicators, in part because the
    government had indicated that it would return to support the project once the macro-
    economic environment improved. In retrospect that was perhaps optimistic, given
    that at the time of the restructuring the project had only another 24 months before the
    Loan closing date. See also discussion in 3.2 that discusses the actual achieved
    outcomes – which in the case of two of the three indicators relevant to physical
    achievements – were quite substantial even relative to the original targets for key
    indicators.

32. M&E Implementation and utilization: Due to slow pace of implementation the
    Bank team relied mostly on output indicators to assess progress. The team used
    physical output indicators to monitor the progress of the works and the delivery of
    equipment. Most supervision missions’ aide memoires reported the progress in those
    outputs. To measure “institutional development progress? indicators such as “a
    formal regional transport coordination commission in place,? “decentralization of
    commuter rail services from federal to state government,? “preparing an integrated
    transport policy, land use and air quality strategy? were used. The indicators were
    an integral part of the project, and were regularly reported by the implementing
    agency’s Project Management consultant (MWH). This consultant’s reports included
    information on progress of the works, the procurement of goods and services, and
    the general development of the project.



                                            8
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33. Environmental Assessment. The project was appropriately designated as an
    Environmental Category ‘B’ project. An assessment and management plan had been
    designed by professional independent consultants and had found construction-related
    disruption to be the primary environmental impact of the project.        Adequate
    measures to mitigate this impact had been designed and agreed upon in the
    management plan. The Brazilian State environmental agency had provided the
    required legal clearance to proceed with works (a license had been issued). The
    environment management plan was implemented through project implementation as
    agreed. There were no significant issues related to environmental management
    during implementation.

34. Involuntary resettlement. The original project design called for resettlement
    affecting 319 properties including 291 that were residential or mixed use. An
    adequate resettlement plan had been designed that was based in part on consultations
    with the affected community and their expressed wishes. Most of the originally
    planned resettlement was cancelled when the project was restructured. The
    restructured project required the acquisition of limited number of properties which
    were covered by the original resettlement plan, and the resettlement proceeded
    successfully in line with the agreed plan.

35. Consultations were carried out appropriately in accordance with Bank policy. As
    per the PAD, consultations were conducted during the preparation of both the
    environmental assessment and the resettlement plan. Previously announced and
    scheduled public meetings were held, and minutes were recorded. The draft
    environmental assessment was available for public review and was discussed (as per
    Brazilian law) in an official public audience.

36. Procurement was generally well designed and supervised. The federal level
    counterpart (CBTU), which was providing assistance to Metrofor on procurement
    was knowledgeable in Bank Procurement procedures and had capacity, as correctly
    assessed during preparation. Furthermore, the team had experienced procurement
    specialists including a local expert with proximity to the client. This level of
    collaboration with the borrower facilitated communications and helped to address
    issues promptly. There were some delays due to disagreements between CBTU and
    Metrofor on design issues; the disagreements were eventually resolved and all
    procurement was carried out successfully and in compliance with Bank guidelines,
    albeit with delays.

37. Financial Management (FM) aspects were generally in compliance with Bank
    procedures. The Project Agreement required both CBTU (the recipient of the loan on
    behalf of the federal government) and FMR to keep proper accounting of
    expenditures in the project. Audited copies of the accounting records had to be
    submitted yearly until loan closure. Audit reports occasionally identified minor



                                          9
    issues but they were always addressed promptly. In general the Bank team
    considered the FM performance of the project to be satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38. Physical works. At present, works on the west line as envisioned in the restructured
    project, have been completed. Some of the existing rolling stock has been
    successfully rehabilitated. Additional rolling stock is in the process of being acquired
    – two trainsets are in testing and another two are near delivery. Metrofor has asked
    the manufacturer to keep these two trainsets at the factory so that when delivered,
    they can reflect the adjustments needed to the trainsets currently under testing. Two
    others are planned to be procured in the future using counterpart funds. Works on the
    JBIC supported South line, the other element of the Metrofor system, have been
    delayed and are expected to be complete by mid to late 2011. At that time, the
    project improvements conceived at appraisal will be completed – in a delayed and
    somewhat reduced fashion.

39. Institutional. As already noted, the decentralization process underlying the project
    design was successfully implemented by mid-2002. Since then the rail system has
    been operated by Metrofor, the provincial metropolitan transport company. The
    Metrofor and CBTU teams working on the West line are also working on the JBIC-
    financed south lines.

40. Currently, the system covers all its variable operating costs but the salaries of
    Metrofor personnel are paid by the federal government as per the decentralization
    agreement until the South line is completed. This annual operating subsidy is R$ 11
    million. The original project design called for concessioning the operations of the
    entire Metrofor system, once both the Bank-financed West line and the JBIC
    financed South line were complete. A study to support this strategy has been
    completed as part of the Project and the state government is looking to update that
    study. Metrofor is currently expected to continue to operate the system in the short-
    term. Metrofor has gained considerable experience in operations over the project
    period and at this juncture and it is expected that it will continue to operate the
    system competently.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41. The PDO remained valid throughout the life of the project and did not require
    adjustment to accommodate changing government priorities in response to a shifting
    macroeconomic context.

   a. The objectives remained relevant according the Bank's priorities regarding Brazil.
      For example, the objective of improving quality of public urban transport in the
      FMR by developing a fully integrated public transport system under the



                                            10
     coordination of a RTCC was in line with the 2006 revised CAS (2004-2007)
     priority of "Investing in growth, including enhanced emphasis on improving
     competitiveness and investing in infrastructure." Urban mobility and a focus on
     public transport as a means to support multiple goals of urban congestion, air
     pollution, greenhouse gas pollutants and provide mobility and access for the
     poorest remains a core element of the Bank’s sectoral strategy.
  b. A high-quality integrated transit system was an investment in infrastructure that
     promotes urban competitiveness and efficiency by requiring fewer resources to
     move passengers. The PDO was also in line with the 2008-2011 CPS which
     identifies Brazil's country goals: (i) to improve competitiveness by investing in the
     transport system, and (ii) to reduce inequality by providing, among others, job
     opportunities for the poor. The integrated system will benefit mainly the poor
     residing in the urban periphery.
  c. The second PDO has to do with the decentralization of CBTU’s Fortaleza to the
     state government. The decentralization of urban transport is mandated by the
     Constitution of Brazil and therefore continues to be relevant (even though
     providing support to the decentralized transport systems was not one of the most
     immediate priorities of the incoming federal government in 2003).
  d. The final PDO has to do with the introduction of private sector participation in
     infrastructure operation and management. Identifying an appropriate role for the
     private sector to introduce market discipline and drive efficiency remains a core
     element of the Bank’s sectoral strategy in transport. Also, the studies conducted
     and revised under this project have had a major role influencing the State-level
     decision makers with respect to their understanding and attitude towards private
     sector participation. However, the last decade has provided a wealth of experience
     and new information with respect to public-private partnerships in urban transport,
     in Brazil and in the region, and there is a need to examine this experience to inform
     future efforts in this regard.
  e. The PDOs, therefore, remained relevant throughout the life of the project.

42. The PDOs were also relevant and integrated with both the original and restructured
    project design. The project supported the decentralization, which was an
    effectiveness requirement during preparation, and by supporting Metrofor with
    institutional strengthening during implementation. The design of investments in
    both the original and restructured project supported the second PDO (related to
    system performance) given the available resources. The policy dialogue during the
    project – focusing on post-construction operations, supported the third PDO (on
    private sector participation in operations).

43. The Project Design also remained relevant. It allowed the advancement of a
    significant and complicated policy agenda around a targeted set of investments. As a
    result the design remained relevant in the face of significant deterioration of the
    macroeconomic and fiscal environment (e.g. a 65.7 percent devaluation of the Real
    over 1.5 years). The Project Design was flexible and allowed changes through a
    scaling down of the project and the introduction of an alternative low-cost system
    without needing changes to the PDOs. Indeed, even in face of a 85 percent



                                          11
    reduction in project cost, it was possible for the project to survive by (i) abandoning
    electrification in favor of rehabilitating and continuing with diesel traction, which
    allowed low-cost rehabilitation of existing rolling stock to achieve incremental
    improvement in service; and (ii) limiting the double tracking to some essential
    sections in order to achieve at least partial improvements in service quality and
    frequency. The adaptable Project Design, coupled with an intensive engagement in
    supervision, prevented Fortaleza from having an abandoned and partially completed
    project. Instead, the city has an upgraded system at relatively low cost that will
    complement the South line which is expected to be operational in mid-2011.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44. The analysis in this section is carried out in light of the likely operation of the JBIC-
    financed Metrofor South line (Maracanau – Fortaleza city center) by mid to
    late2011, the associated improvements in the Bank-financed Metrofor West line, and
    expected further improvements on this line as a result of ongoing procurement and
    testing of additional trainsets.

45. The achievement of overall PDOs is considered moderately satisfactory. This
    rating is based on the ratings for the achievements of the individual PDOs.

46. The first PDO, is “to improve the quality of public urban transport in the FMR by
    enhancing the development of a fully integrated urban transport system under the
    coordination of a Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) and
    rehabilitate the Metro for West Line.? The potential to achieve this PDO materially
    deteriorated with the reduction of project scope. Once a decision was made not to
    electrify this line, it was no longer possible to integrate it completely with the
    electrified South line; indeed current plans call for users to transfer with a few
    hundred meter walk between the electrified South line and the diesel operated west
    line. Further, plans for the originally envisioned accompanying electrified rolling
    stock – electrified, air conditioned, providing a high-quality smooth ride – were
    dropped as part of the 2006 restructuring. Instead, the existing diesel trainsets were
    rehabilitated and new similar trainsets were acquired. Possibilities for additional
    frequencies (and related rail capacity) are also limited by the need to curtail double-
    tracking. All these reductions in scope decrease both system capacity and system
    attractiveness. However, as discussed below, under difficult circumstances the
    restructured project preserved many of the benefits critical for the poorest: those
    related to integration and improvements in generalized costs. The biggest impact of
    the reduced scope and consequent reduced attractiveness of the service is an inability
    to attract trip-makers who have a choice (such as those who have access to a car),
    thus curtailing the project’s ability to capture the levels of market share originally
    envisioned.

47. In all, remarkably, despite the significant reduction in project scope, achievement of
    this PDO is rated moderately satisfactory based on the following evidence:
  a. Integration, which is measured by estimating the percentage of stations where
     bus/rail integration provided has been partially achieved. Success of this indicator


                                            12
          was dependent not-so-much on big investments as much as changes in the way bus
          and rail operators interacted. Physical integration has been achieved in that buses
          now stop at rail stations. However, tariff integration is not yet achieved. The
          government has given a commitment to implement an integrated fare system with a
          common card by the time that the Metrofor South line is operational (forecast in
          mid to late 2011). At this time, though some equipment for such a smartcard
          system has been purchased, talks between government and the association of
          private buses concessionaires is still ongoing. Additionally, the rehabilitated
          stations provide high quality bicycle lockers which accomplish intermodal
          integration between the rail and bicycles.
       b. Congestion, which is measured by the increase in the rail share in urban transport
          motorized trips, is likely to be achieved in a limited manner; and will be due
          primarily to the operations of the South line, once is operational. As discussed
          already, the potential of the West line to increase rail share, was severely curtailed
          by the reductions in scope and consequent reductions in the competitiveness and
          attractiveness of the service.
       c. Generalized cost of travel, which is measured by the accessibility of low-income
          users in the form of an aggregate of travel time, fare and reliability. This indicator
          has been substantially achieved due to increases in speed (due to track
          improvements) and reliability (due to track improvements and enhanced rolling
          stock) of the service. It is a testimony to the restructuring that it focused all the
          limited resources available on incremental improvements that materially improved
          the quality of the service offered to the poor. It is also likely the case that, the
          original targets in this respect were conservative; if the project had indeed been
          implemented as designed, this target would have been significantly exceeded. As it
          is, significant improvements have been made, amounting to over 80 percent of the
          original target.
       d. Furthermore, project –related improvements also resulted in: (i) improvements in
          safety which represented the reduction in terms of accidents;5 and (ii)
          improvements in comfort levels for passengers resulting from the rehabilitation of
          existing trainsets and the acquisition of new trainsets.

    48. The achievement of the second PDO, “to transfer the STU/FOR system from the
        Federal to the State government? was fully achieved. The achievement of this
        objective is considered satisfactory, because the transfer from the Federal
        Government took place as planned, albeit with some minor delays.

    49. The achievement of the third PDO, “to increase the private sector participation in
        the operation and management of the Metrofor system (West and South lines? is
        considered moderately unsatisfactory. At present the state government has asked
        to update the study conducted as part of the project to explore models for private



5
    No formal data are available but Metrofor has reported that they have seen up to a fifty percent reduction in accident rates at level
crossings.




                                                                     13
      sector participation and reportedly is considering plans to concession the system
      after the completion of the South line and another East-West line currently under
      planning. It is unlikely that private sector participation in operations will be
      introduced in the near term of 12 to 18 months. That said, the studies conducted as
      part of the project (and measured as part of the achievement of intermediate
      indicators) have played an important role in influencing decision-makers’ attitudes
      and outlook towards private sector participation. Further, Brazil’s experience with
      private sector participation in the last decade has provided many important and
      useful lessons relating to the management of such private-public partnerships in
      times of economic and/or political instability. It would be prudent for the state of
      Ceara, as well as the national government and civil society to absorb and deliberate
      on this experience as a pre-requisite to embarking on a new privatization process.

3.3 Efficiency

50. The economic analysis done for the original project at appraisal was based on a
    traditional corridor level urban transport modeling analysis. As per the PAD, a
    NPV of US$145 million at a 10 percent discount rate and an internal rate of
    return of 22 percent were reported. A summary economic analysis was conducted
    as part of this ICR and summarized in Annex 3. This summary analysis reflects
    the restructured project with lower costs and concomitantly lower benefits. An
    economic rate of return of 8.5 percent is estimated using a generally conservative
    set of assumptions. Additional investments to complete double-tracking of the
    line, a prerequisite to increase service frequencies, would significantly increase
    the attractiveness of the service, attract new riders and thus increase the net
    economic rate of return. On one hand, this analysis indicates the significant
    impact of the restructuring on the potential of the rail system to attract new riders
    and deliver on its potential to support Fortaleza’s transport system. On the other
    hand, the restructured project reflected a ‘do-minimum’ set of actions critical to
    maintain a safe and minimally reliable service. Under the circumstances, this rate of
    return is not unusual.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory 

51. This rating is based on the combination of the project relevance, achievement of the
    objectives and the achieved project efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


52. None measurable with available data. Though no formal surveys have been
    conducted – the key beneficiaries of the project are poor households on the urban



                                            14
      periphery that have benefited from integration and improvement of transport service
      into the center city.

(b)         Institutional Change/Strengthening

 53. For the actual implementation of the project, Metrofor has trained several cohorts of
     professionals in areas such as engineering, procurement under Bank rules, project
     management, and railway technology. As operations pick up pace, the people at
     Metrofor will further their experience in this area and to go faster along the learning
     curve, Metrofor signed technical cooperation agreements both with the Metro of São
     Paulo and with CBTU. The creation of the RTCC is also worth highlighting because
     of the need to gather different stakeholders to plan the evolution of the urban
     transport system and gather consensus.

(c)         Other unintended outcomes and impacts

 54. None measurable with available data.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

 55. Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

 56. The risk to development outcome of this operation is significant because:

      a. Technical risk. The technical risk derives from two sources. First, the possibility
         that the new trainsets (in procurement and in testing), do not operate as planned or
         are not maintained properly due to financial pressures (see below). Second, that
         tariff integration between buses and rail, which is currently under discussion is not
         implemented as promised by the time the South line is operational. The lack of
         tariff integration will make the service less attractive to all customers. In the short-
         term it will particularly hurt the poorest who will have to pay multiple times to use
         the rail, and to the degree passengers decide not to use the rail for this reason, affect
         the financial viability of the rail operations. In the medium term, a system that is
         not integrated will be less attractive to customers who have choice, a particularly
         important segment from the perspective of long-term sustainability of the urban
         area, from the perspective of congestion, air pollution and climate change. To
         mitigate this risk Metrofor is dealing with Fortaleza municipality and Sindionibus
         on the integration matters, however until the conclusion of this ICR, the remaining
         issues have not been fully resolved.
      b. Financial risk. Financial risk emerges from the dependence of the Metrofor system
         on a subsidy for close to 40 percent of its long-term variable costs. Though this is
         not a significant burden on the federal government at present, it presents significant
         risks in the medium and long term unless addressed. Cost recovery is expected to
         significantly improve once the South line is operational and once tariff integration



                                                15
     with the bus system is accomplished. However, if the system does not begin to
     recover long-run variable costs at that time, subsidies from the state government
     will be needed. This would be unfortunate and would remain a source of
     significant risk, particularly in fiscal downturns and when there is a need for further
     capital investments. In the worst case, financial deficits could translate to
     inadequate maintenance with the potential to impact service quality negatively.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

In ensuring quality at entry                                                   Satisfactory

57. The project was well prepared and Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is
    rated satisfactory. The rationale for this assessment is summarized below:

   a. Sound strategic context. First, the project was consistent and aligned with the
      Bank’s country strategy focusing on poverty reduction and growth as well as
      targeting public services for the urban poor, the Bank’s sectoral strategy in urban
      transport (decentralization, private sector participation, creation of a regional
      transport authority, establishment of a multi-modal integrated transport system, and
      integration of the regional land-use, transport and air quality agendas) and was
      conceived within the framework of a broader ongoing country sectoral dialogue
      that combined institutional reform, policy dialog, and investments.
   b. Technically well designed and well prepared. The design was comprehensive –
      covering an extensive sectoral policy agenda – without being unduly complicated.
      All the investments focused in a sensible manner about upgrading the performance
      of a single existing rail corridor using a set of established and cost-effective actions.
      The technical and economic analysis presented at appraisal were well done,
      followed good practice and adequate. The project was focused, identifying and
      targeting a particular vulnerable beneficiary population. The design of project
      investments was based on an analysis of different technical alternatives that
      concluded that the modernization of the rail line was the most cost-effective
      feasible alternative to improve capacity in the corridor in question.
   c. Strong ownership of the project including the institutional agenda. There is little
      doubt of the ownership of the project at the municipal and state levels. At the time
      of Project appraisal and Board, the federal government was also clearly in favor of
      decentralization.
   d. Risk assessment was adequate. A range of risks were appropriately identified,
      actions to mitigate the risk were identified and as appropriate taken, and given the
      information available, the project’s risk rating of ‘medium’ was acceptable.
      Clearly, in hindsight, the project was unable to foresee appropriately the risks
      related to limited fiscal space – which were not mentioned in the PAD. However, it
      is not clear how that could have been done at the time. It is noted that after recent
      reforms in the Bank’s lending process, the ORAF instrument has been designed so




                                             16
      that macro-economic risks that could affect project performance are more
      systematically identified and assessed during project preparation.
   e. Lessons from past experience were incorporated into design. The project reflected
      a number of lessons learnt from previous projects implemented in the sector. These
      lessons influenced the design on the technical assistance component, actions to
      ensure that the project was included in federal and provincial government budgets
      to ensure counterpart funding (to no avail), and the design of effectiveness
      conditions (that included the completion of the decentralization process for the
      system, an important part of the reform agenda).
   f. Preparation was adequately advanced at the time of Board. The RTCC had been
      established, the decentralization process was well advanced and final engineering
      designs for the first year of work were completed.
   g. Fiduciary issues. Adequate procurement and financial management assessments
      had been part of the appraisal process. CBTU, the key counterpart at the federal
      level had significant experience with previous Bank projects, as did the state.
   h. Social and environmental issues. Project design included an exhaustive social
      survey that mapped travel patterns of the poor and a ‘willingness-to-pay’ exercise
      to inform tariff issues. The project was designed to upgrade the environmental and
      social environment in the FMR – in the form of reduced congestion, noise and air
      pollution from buses, and increased quality of service for the urban poor living on
      the periphery.
   i. Safeguards. As discussed already the appraisal adequately covered all issues
      relating to social and environmental safeguards and consultation.

Quality of supervision                                        Moderately Satisfactory

58. Bank supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

59. On one hand, the team did a solid job as evidenced by actions such as:
  a. Timely and frequent supervision missions during the implementation stage
     accompanied by timely communication between the project team and Bank
     management (as evidenced by 25 Implementation Status Reports filed in the 1999-
     2010 period);
  b. Prompt and sound identification and assessment of implementation problems as
     well as provision of high-quality advice and solutions to the borrower to address
     the implementation problems;
  c. A proactive attitude, appropriate and prompt Bank follow up actions. The
     proactive nature of the Bank’s supervision was particularly important to the
     restructuring process. By raising the possibility of cancelling the project when
     counterpart funds were not forthcoming in the project’s early years, the Bank
     initiated the dialogue that eventually led to the restructuring and eventual project
     implementation;
  d. Depth of country and sector knowledge which allowed the team to fashion a
     restructured project even in an extraordinarily adverse fiscal environment. To
     ensure that the project would proceed, the team worked with the Borrower to get
     the project included in a national priority infrastructure list (the PIPP). This was



                                          17
      critical to secure funding for the project and to allow implementation to proceed
      smoothly without disbursement restrictions.
   e. Timely and diligent attention to fiduciary and safeguards issues through the project
      implementation period.
60. At the same time the team could have exercised a higher level of administrative due-
    diligence. Lapses in this respect include (a) that the restructuring did not encompass
    the M&E framework – when the scope of the project got reduced to 15 percent of its
    original size, the PDO targets should have been appropriately revised; and (b) the
    ratings of the ISRs displayed some inconsistencies. Specifically, after the Project
    was effective in September 2002, there was almost no disbursement for about two
    years, yet the ISR ratings remained as Satisfactory until April 2004; at which stage it
    was changed to Unsatisfactory, and then after two years it was changed to
    Moderately Satisfactory and then Moderately Unsatisfactory until mid-2007 while
    there had been no disbursement.

Rating for overall performance                                 Moderately Satisfactory

61. This rating reflects the combination of the Bank performance ratings for preparation
    and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

62. During preparation both the federal government (as the Borrower) and the state
    government (as project beneficiary) performed satisfactorily. They supplied
    information, carried out the necessary studies, estimated investment needs, and
    recognized institutional weaknesses. Furthermore, the federal agency, CBTU, had
    acquired experience in at least three similar projects and was able to manage
    safeguard and procurement issues easily. The state and local governments, for their
    part, created the Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) and the
    actual implementation agency, Metrofor.

63. However, during implementation, as explained in Section 2.2 the federal government
    neither budgeted adequate resources for project implementation (disbursement of the
    loan or counterpart funds) nor made a decision on how to proceed with the Loan
    until late 2004 after persistent engagement by the Bank, and the restructuring was
    not completed until 2006. In this sense, more could have been done by the Ministry
    of Transport and since 2003 by the Ministry of the Cities to focus on the project’s
    needs and to take the necessary actions to prioritize its implementation in line with
    the provisions of the signed legal agreement. Obviously, the adverse fiscal and
    macroeconomic conditions are an important extenuating factor. Yet, the rating
    reflects the limited proactivity and the over four-year delay in taking the decisions
    that reactivated the project. That said, the government did finally engage and
    worked with all the other stakeholders to identify a solution that allowed the project
    to proceed, albeit in a reduced form. For these reasons, the Borrower performance
    during implementation is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.




                                           18
64. The state government's performance during implementation is rated as moderately
    satisfactory because, on one hand, they carried out considerable efforts towards
    advancing project implementation but, on the other, the protracted process in
    procurement and in reaching agreement in the integration processes with
    municipalities and the private sector caused severe delays in project implementation
    and the integration of the urban transport system.

Implementation Agency Performance
CBTU                                                            Moderately satisfactory
METROFOR                                                        Moderately satisfactory

65. There are two implementation agencies, CBTU, at the federal level, and Metrofor, at
    the state level. This evaluation considers both. First, CBTU had ample experience
    with Bank loans, procedures, safeguards, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting.
    As such, the agency complied with all Bank requirements. Furthermore, the Project
    Implementation Unit at CBTU was adequately staffed and its management was
    stable. However, the CBTU team could potentially have been more pro-active in
    resolving the project impasse in the years before restructuring. The Metrofor team
    has done a commendable job implementing the project while keeping the system
    operating. That said there were delays in project implementation even after
    restructuring due to difficulties in resolving design issues between the two
    implementing agencies. In all, the implementing agencies receive a Moderately
    Satisfactory rating.


Overall Borrower Performance                                  Moderately satisfactory

66. The overall Borrower performance is moderately satisfactory based on the
    performance of the government and implementing agency in light of the significant
    issues outside their control and because the overall project performance is judged to
    be moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

67. The following lessons have been derived from the implementation of this project.
    They emerge from the analysis of the project done in this ICR.

68. Modal integration remains an important but difficult agenda at the core of all public
    transport projects. On one hand, this project indicates how difficult achieving good
    quality integration is. Despite arrangements that were quite advanced during
    preparation, despite a functioning regional coordinating committee (an important
    building block towards modal integration) by the time the project was presented to
    the Bank Board for approval, and despite repeated assurances from government,
    integration thus far has only been partially achieved. A lesson is for projects
    documentation to more explicitly recognize the risks and difficulties related to




                                          19
    achieving good integration, even as this issue should continue to be a central focus
    of the sectoral agenda.
        


69. Supervision and restructuring – modalities to respond to macroeconomic
    shocks. Lack of fiscal space can greatly influence the pace of project
    implementation and in some cases has led to cancellation of components. Risks
    related to macroeconomic environments are outside the control of any given project
    but affect them significantly. There may be a benefit for the Bank to create a
    flexible framework within which all projects can be restructured or modified as
    needed in the aftermath of significant macroeconomic deterioration.

70. Institutional change and PDO indicators. Bank-financed investments projects
    have a limited timescale and are often seen by the Borrower primarily as vehicles to
    support particular investments. While investment projects can often be structured to
    support particularly elements of structural change (such as the decentralization
    process, or private sector participation); it remains difficult to tie significant
    politically driven structural change to project-related timetables. The example of
    private sector participation in this project is a case in point. Over the course of this
    project, there was significant change in decision-makers attitude towards private
    sector participation as a result of project-related activities as evidenced by the study
    financed by the Bank on private participation. However, due to a combination of
    macro-economic factors and other non-project related delays in the South line, the
    privatization process itself is currently in abeyance. There remains likelihood that in
    the future – when an appropriate political and economic environment is in place –
    that the privatization process will continue; just not on the same schedule of a Bank-
    financed sector investment loan.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower’s main body report is included as Annex 7 of this document. The full
report, including the appendixes, is available in the project’s files.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component
Table 1 Disbursement Table
                           Loan agreement                    First amendment              Second amendment
                            August 1, 2002                     June 20, 2006                 June 2, 2008

Category             Amount of the        % of         Amount of          % of       Amount of the         % of
                        Loan          Expenditures      the Loan       Expenditure   Loan Allocated    Expenditures
                      Allocated      to be financed    Allocated         s to be        (Euros)       to be financed
                       (Euros)                           (Euros)        financed
Goods
(under Part A.1 of
the Project)

Metrorail systems     15,764,000          50               100,000        100           000,000            100

Rolling stock         26,274,000          50            100,000           100         12,600,000           100
Works                 41,540,000          65           19,854,000         100         11,100,000           100
(under Part A.1 of
the Project)

Consultants’           3,932,000                       4,696,000          100          1,300,000           100
services
Front -end-fee         986,000                          986,000                        986,000
Unallocated           10,104,000                        250,000                           0
TOTAL                                                  25,986,000                     25,986,000
Cancellation                                           72,614,000                     72,614,000
amount
Original Loan         98,600,000                       98,600,000                     98,600,000
amount
Closing date                March 31, 2006                    March 30, 2008              September 30, 2010




                                                      21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Table 1a: Performance indicators (in PAD)
                                                           2000                                                   2004         2005
                 Indicators                      Unity                     2001       2002             2003
                                                          (base)

    % of rail stations physically and tariff                                                                        50          50
    integrated with bus lines
                                                  %         0                -          -                -
     % rail share of urban transport                                                                                            10
    motorized trips
                                                  %         2                -          -                -
    Generalized cost of travel6                  Min.      93                -          -                -          69         65
    Decentralization of STU-FOR

    Project Outputs
    Physical Implementation
    % of the Permanent Way Works                  %         0               0          33               66         100
    % of other civil works                        %         0               0          33               66         100
    % rolling stock system                        %         0               6           0               33         80          100
    Institutional Development
    Private Sector Participation                                          Model.      Proc.
                                                            -                                            -
                                                                         completed    Ident.
    Establishment and strengthening of                   Started
    formal RTCC                                          periodic
                                                         meetings
    Integrated urban transport land use                                                                Final
    and air quality strategy                                               Draft
                                                            -                           -              report
                                                                         concluded
                                                                                                     discussed


Table 2: Achievement of performance indicators
                                                                                             2000
                   Indicators                               Unity                                                     2010
                                                                                            (base)

    % of rail stations physically and tariff                                                   0
    integrated with bus lines
                                                                %                                                        507
     % rail share of urban transport motorized                                                 2
    trips
                                                                %                                                        28
    Generalized cost of travel                              Min.                               93                        70
    Decentralization of STU-FOR

    Project Outputs
    Physical Implementation
    % of the Permanent Way Works                                %                              0                    100/100
    % of other civil works                                      %                              0                    100/100
    % rolling stock system                                      %                              0                     70/100
    Institutional Development                                                          2001 (base)
    Private Sector Participation                                                     Model completed             Model revised
    Integrated urban transport land use                                               Draft report
    and air quality strategy                                                            completed             Final report discussed




6
  Travel time plus fare plus reliability in minutes between Caucaia and Joao Felipe (accessibility of low-income user
related objective).
7
  Physical integration complete tariff integration ongoing and expected to be completed by end 2011
8
  Market share expected to reach targeted 5 percent once south line is operational in 2011


                                                                    22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic analysis done for the original project at appraisal was based on a
traditional corridor level urban transport modeling analysis. The model estimated the
travel time benefits for existing train users as well as tripmakers that switched from
other modes (such as buses), associated savings in vehicle operating costs (the net
difference between rail operating costs after the project and the costs of operating the
buses running in the without project case) and the associated savings from reduced
bus travel in terms of pollution, accidents and road maintenance. In addition to
investment costs, costs related to additional rail operational overhead (additional staff
and maintenance costs) were also accounted for. The analysis was solid and followed
established transport economic analysis methods. As per the PAD, a NPV of US$145
million at a 10 percent discount rate and an internal rate of return of 22 percent were
reported.

As a result of the project restructuring, the improvements on the rail system have been
incremental, accruing significant benefits on existing users; though not being
significant enough to attract many new users. The primary gains, as measured by the
project’s performance indicators, have been a reduction in the generalized cost of
travel by way of increased speeds and higher reliability. A summary economic
analysis was conducted for this ICR to measure the net impacts of these benefits in
light of the actual project costs. Travel time savings accruing to existing riders were
the primary source of benefits as per this analysis. This reflects the relatively limited
ability for the restructured project to attract riders from other modes. The Table
below summarizes the key assumptions and results of the ex-post analysis.


Parameter                    Values              Comments and remarks
Benefit period               2010-2030
Ridership expectations       Additional 8000 riders a day once 6 new trains-sets are operating
                             Additional 10,000 riders a day once JBIC financed South line is
                             complete and operating
Daily travel time savings    15 minutes          Travel time equivalent of achieved
                                                 generalized cost savings of 23 minutes for
                                                 the poor
Value-of-time                US$1.2/hour         A 10 percent reduction of the value-of-time
                                                 of users of a similar rail system serving a
                                                 similar demographic in SP
Capital Costs                US$36,000,000       Total project expenditures in 2005-2010
                                                 period, expenditures associated with rolling
                                                 stock currently in acquisition
EIRR                         8.5%




                                            23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members

Names                          Title                          Unit          Responsibility
Lending
Jorge M. Rebelo                Lead transport Specialist and TTL LCSTR      TTL

Supervision/ICR
Aurelio Menendez               Sector Manager and TTL            LCSTR      TTL since April 2010
Jorge M. Rebelo                Lead transport Specialist and TTL LCSTR      TTL until April 2010
Armando Ribeiro Araujo         Consultant                        LCSPT      Procurement
 Tulio Henrique Lima Correa    Financial Management Specialist LCSFM        Financial management
 Nicolas Drossos               Consultant                        LCSFM      Financial management
 Elisabeth Goller              Sr Transport. Spec.               LCSTR      Institutional
 Daniel R. Gross               Consultant                        LCSEN      Social safeguards
 Sabina Augusta Kauark Leite   Consultant                        LCSTR      Institutional
 Shomik Mehndiratta            Lead Transport Specialist         LCSTR      ICR
 Jose Ricardo Marar            E T Consultant                    LCSTR      ICR

Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                             11.91
  FY00                                               16                           140.89
  FY01                                                3                            17.01
  FY02                                                3                            21.69
  FY03                                                                              0.00
  FY04                                                                              0.00
  FY05                                                                              0.00
  FY06                                                                              0.07
  FY07                                                                              0.00
  FY08                                                                              0.00
                               Total:                22                           191.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                              7.71
  FY00                                                                              0.00
  FY01                                                                              0.24
  FY02                                                3                            27.68
  FY03                                                6                            43.18
  FY04                                                5                            40.77
  FY05                                                7                            64.34
  FY06                                               13                            96.46
  FY07                                                9                            93.81
  FY08                                                6                            81.68

                               Total:                49                           455.87


                                                24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                      25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                      Brazilian Urban Trains Company (CBTU)


                          Borrower’s Evaluation Report

                          Loan Agreement No. 7083-BR

                                      Preface



This is the final report concerning the Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project
undertaken with the participation of the Brazilian Urban Train Company (CBTU), the
Ceará Metropolitan Transport Company (Metrofor), the Ceará State Government and
Brazil’s Federal Government. The project was supported with Euro 25.986 million from
IBRD financing, under the terms of a Loan Agreement signed on 1st August 2002.

The Agreement was concluded on 30th September 2010, 54 months over and above the
originally agreed completion date of 30th March 2006.

The final disbursement was made on 13th January 2011, in the Grace Period of four
months, and all the funds provided by the IBRD (Euro 25.986 million) were utilized.




                                        26
                                 Evaluation Summary

                      Fortaleza Metropolitan Transport Project

                      Brazilian Urban Trains Company (CBTU)

                             Loan Agreement No. 7083-BR

                                          Brazil

                                      Introduction

Brazil’s Federal Government, responsible through the CBTU for operating and
administering the existent urban rail systems, developed the Metropolitan Trains
Decentralization Program aimed at transferring the systems from federal to local control
in response to a series of constitutional directives determining the transfer of the
management and operation of urban transportation systems to their respective local
authorities. The urban trains system in Fortaleza was transferred to a state company
specifically constituted for this purpose (Metrofor) on 28th June 2002. The World Bank
has provided partial financing for mass transit decentralization projects in São Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Recife, Salvador, as well as in the West Line of Fortaleza.

The Fortaleza metropolitan transport project was submitted to the IBRD, with the
definitive project design approved by the World Bank Board of Executive Directors on
12th April 2001.

                                   Project Objectives

The following documents were signed on 1st August 2001: Loan Agreement LN-7083-
BR between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the IBRD; a Project Agreement
between the CBTU, the METROFOR and the IBRD; and, finally, the ‘State Agreement’
between the Government of the State of Ceará and IBRD. The Loan Agreement signed
with the IBRD was in the sum of Euro 98.6 million, corresponding at that time to
US$ 85.0 million. With the US$ 91.2 million representing the Federal Government’s
counterpart contribution represented a total project value of US$ 176.2 million. The
purpose of the project was to implement the West Line of the Fortaleza’s metro line, in
electrified metric gauge, with similar characteristics of the South Line project going on.
Contracts were split into three major categories: goods, works and consulting services.
On 20th June 2006 a reduction of Euro 72.614 million, as well as a reduction in the
project scope was officially approved (down to Euro 25.986 million), without any Federal
Government counterpart contribution.

The original West Line project involved the construction, the rehabilitation and
modernization of the West Line, including: (a) the construction of an integrated system
consisting of: (i) about 19 line-kilometers of infrastructure and superstructure works,
rehabilitation of about 13 bridges and viaducts, rehabilitation works in the areas



                                            27
surrounding the stations and in the grade crossings, and road works in the area of
influence of such line; (ii) installation of signaling, telecommunications and
electrification facilities, escalators and elevators, a central control system, automatic train
control equipment, air conditioning, ventilation, fans and ancillary equipment: and (iii)
acquisition of rolling stock (eight train sets); and (b) carrying out of the Resettlement
Plan. The project also set provision of technical assistance for: the management and
supervision of the carrying out of construction above and (b) the strengthening of the
capacity of the project coordination unit – PCU to coordinate project implementation.

As the scope was reduced, the project included only the rehabilitation of about 19 line-
kilometers of permanent way, refurbish of ten stations, modernization of 13 Pidner’s
passengers cars, rehabilitation of two diesel locomotives and the acquisition of six Light
Rail Vehicles – LRV.

The key objectives of the project were: to improve the quality of public transport in the
Fortaleza Metropolitan Region by developing an integrated urban transport system
coordinated by a regional transportation coordination commission; rehabilitation of the
Metrofor West Line; to undertake the decentralization of the system operated by CBTU,
transferring ownership and management from the Federal level to the Ceará’s State
authorities; and promote the private sector participation in the operation and management
of the Metrofor system (West and South Lines).

The CBTU-IBRD-FOR project was regarded as a project of major importance which
enabled the CBTU to fulfill its role of upgrading urban transport in the area by utilizing
railway systems integrated with other modes of transport, thereby substantially boosting
the quality of transport for the population living in the urban area of large Brazilian
capitals. Specifically in Fortaleza’s case, the acquisition of Light Rail Vehicles – LRV
enabled to offer to the system’s users a transportation with quality, comfort, on time
services, air conditioning environment, and others, as well as promoted an incentive to
the national rail-road industry making possible the creation of a genuine Brazilian
company to produce these vehicles to the West Line and to others metropolitan trains
systems in Brazil.

The Fortaleza project differed in some respects to the urban trains systems of São Paulo
and Rio de Janeiro (partially financed by the World Bank). In these cities the bidding and
contraction procedures, as well as the works and services management, remained under
the responsibility of the CBTU, even after the systems had been decentralized. In the case
of Fortaleza these functions were devolved in their entirety to the State of Ceará and the
Ceará Metropolitan Transport Company (Metrofor), with the central government, through
the CBTU, responsible solely for transferring the Loan Agreement resources and for
tracking their correct application.

   Experience acquired in the implementation of the project and results achieved

The Fortaleza project after its scope reduction was designed on the basis of two key
components:



                                              28
             A physical component envisaging, in civil works, the rehabilitation and
              modernization of the permanent track in the section between João Felipe
              and Caucáia, including, wherever necessary, the replacement of sleepers
              and fastenings; ballast and rail switches; construction of walls and fences
              along the right of way; improvement of drainage systems; double tracking
              in the section between Parque Albano and Conjunto Ceará stations;
              refurbishment of João Felipe, ?lvaro Weyne, Pe. Andrade, Antônio
              Bezerra, São Miguel, Parque Albano, Conjunto Ceará, Jurema, Araturi and
              Caucáia stations, with works in the surrounding areas, revision in the
              electric and hydraulic installations, improvement in visual communication,
              paintings and access improvements for people needing special care;
              construction of a road viaduct in the city of Caucáia and execution of
              administrative and operational works; in rolling stocks, the acquisition of
              6 (six) Light Rail Vehicles - LRV; in systems, automatic control at
              grading crossings, wherever possible; changes into the radio systems and
              visual signaling; and in administration, provision of technical assistance
              for basic and executive design development and for management and
              supervision to carry out the construction described.

             An institutional and policy development component carrying out an
              integrated urban transport policy studies and the introduction of sound cost
              recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies.

Integration of the metro into the local transportation system has been assisted by the
Infrastructure Secretary of Ceará State associated with the Fortaleza Urban Transport
Company (Empresa de Transporte Urbano de Fortaleza S.A. – ETUFOR), which is the
Fortaleza city transportation agent.

The World Bank Loan Agreement was signed on 1st August 2002 and became effective
on 9th September 2002. Implementation of the project was planned for a period of three
and a half years (2002 to 2006), with an estimated completion date of 31st March 2006.
The completion date was extended for a further 54 months to 30th September 2010.

The main reasons which caused the implementation of the project to be delayed for 54
months were the following:

             Problems related to the global economic situation had a major effect on
              the supply of foreign credit. As a result the Brazilian Government was
              obliged to cut the release of budget funds originally earmarked for the
              implementation of the Fortaleza project. These budget restrictions made it
              necessary to revise the overall project implementation plan resulting in the
              total contingency of funds for the implementation of the project, until
              2005.

             The assurance of receiving resources became possible only from the
              Investments Pilot Plan (PPI), in 2005, and considering the reduction of


                                           29
               scope and financed value, changing the electrified metro system to a
               rehabilitation of the diesel existing system. With the introduction of the
               Acceleration Growth Program (PAC) by the Federal Government, in the
               month of January of 2007, this project had an upgrade in the rolling stock
               component, including the acquisition of six Light Rail Vehicles. The old
               rolling stock scope of modernization of Pidner’s passengers cars and the
               rehabilitation of diesel locomotives were assumed as the Ceará State
               Government’s counterpart contribution;
        

              Delays on contracting the executive projects and its corresponding works
               occurred chiefly by the lack of experience of the Metrofor’s staff on using
               the World Bank standard bidding documents, besides all the effort of the
               experienced CBTU team, involved in 5 (five) other World Bank financed
               projects.    The      Metrofor     bids      could    not      be     done
               on the originally estimated time, causing a great delay on the project
               implementation even after the scope revised with assurance on resources
               from the Investments Pilot Plan (PPI), in 2005.

The Loan Agreement stipulates as project performance evaluation criteria a number of
physical execution targets to be met in the course of the project execution after the scope
reduction. These targets were not met as the result of the above-mentioned circumstances.

By the end of the project implementation, in September 2010, the civil works and
systems were totally concluded. The acquisition of Light Rail Vehicles was the only
project inclusion not totally done besides all project financed sum was entirely disbursed.
The reason was the greater cost for LRV acquisition than the estimated one. The excided
value was also assumed by the Ceará State Government.

                            The World Bank Participation

This project represents the continuation of a partnership between the World Bank and the
CBTU. The first Bank missions involved in the identification of the Fortaleza
Metropolitan Trains Decentralization and the publication of the Staff Appraisal Report
manifested the World Bank’s interest in developing this project in a true spirit of co-
operation.

Following the signature of the Loan agreement at every stage of the project from
beginning to end, the World Bank’s interest was clear as manifested by the following:

              Training sessions, seminars, lectures and support material were provided
               for the CBTU’s teams and government bodies;

              Supervisory visits to track the development of the project on a regular
               basis to identify and recommend solutions in problem areas; undertaking
               necessary interventions or collaborating in a search to correct solutions



                                            30
               while highlighting project achievements which were subsequently adopted
               as recommended procedures:
        

              The prompt supply of funding whenever requested by the Brazilian
               Government, as established in the Loan Agreement. The money was first
               disbursed in advance by the Brazilian Treasury and after the presentation
               of the application forms it was promptly withdraw by the World Bank.
               This approach was essential for the Metrofor to be in a position to honor
               its financial commitments with suppliers and consultants, which greatly
               assisted the ones responsible for managing the project.

Given the above support provided to both the CBTU and the Metrofor and amply
demonstrated by effective practical action, we assess that the performance of the World
Bank throughout can be considered satisfactory.

Borrower Participation

In the World Bank assessment contained in the Staff Appraisal Report the highest risks
involved in the Program were considered to be the following: project cost and time
overruns; demand forecast overestimated; proliferation of illegal transport; fare
integration and tariff too high for low-income users after private sector participation;
delay in approving bus feeder routes to rail stations; untimely availability of counterpart
funds and limited private sector interest in the operations and management of Metrofor.
These risks arose with different degrees of intensity in the course of the project’s
development, as explained below.

The mitigation action proposed by the World Bank with respect to the projected costs and
the project execution timeline was the use of well-known technology, available from
many sources. With the funds contingency mentioned and the reduction on the project
scope, an unexpected situation, conducted to a completely different cost and time for
implementation than the initial one estimated.

Although the CBTU requested, on annual basis, the funds needed for carrying out the
works planned for each fiscal year, the corresponding budget amounts were not released
at the due time because of the problems mentioned above, and it was part of the great
contingency made by the Federal Government. Furthermore, the Federal Government,
through the Ministry of Finance, completely changed the original project, with
considerable reduction in scope and cost. In the new composition, there was no
counterpart from the Federal Government.

About demand forecast, the CBTU had contracted a specific study including an origin-
destiny resource with funds from a Japanese Grant, managed by the World Bank. The
Metrofor contracted a consulting company for updating the mentioned studies.

Regarding to the private sector interest, the Metrofor contracted a specific study, with
funds from another Japanese Grant direct to the State of Ceará. No private company had


                                            31
demonstrated interest for the system operation once completion of the projects of West
and South Lines did not occurred yet.

About the proliferation of illegal transport, the local authorities took the regulation
providences needed.

Concluding the Evaluation Report on the participation by the borrower in implementing
the Fortaleza Metropolitan Train Decentralization Project, it is incumbent on us to say
that:
 The project, after its inclusion on the Investments Pilot Plan (PPI), in 2005, and later
    on the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), in 2007, all the funds needed were
    ensured with a non-abated resource flow;
 The project has fulfilled the objective established under the Loan Agreement, i.e., to
    decentralize operation of the commuter rail system in the city of Fortaleza by
    transferring the system to a state company created specifically for this purpose, the
    Ceará Metropolitan Transport Company – METROFOR.

Flávio Mota Monteiro
Coordinator of the CBTU/IBRD Project

Approved by:
Elionaldo Magalhães
Director/President of CBTU




                                           32
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

METROFOR (MHW). Progress reports February 2009.
METROFOR (MHW). Recuperacao e melhorias da Linha Oeste. December, 2010.
PAD
Presidencia da republica- CGU. Nota técnica 801/DIURB/SFC/CGU-PR. April 2010.
Projob Engenharia. Relatorio de acompanhamento do projeto e fabricacao de VLTs
Metrofor. May 4, 2009.
World Bank. Aide Memoires in Project File, 1999-2010.
World Bank. ISRs in Project file, 2001-2010.
World Bank. Loan Agreement Amendment in Project file, 2005.
World Bank. Loan Agreement in Project file, 2001.
World Bank. ICR Report 929. Salvador Urban Transport Project (Loan 4494-BR).
December, 2008.
World Bank. ICR Report 29806-BR. Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Decentralization
Transport (Loan SCL 3916A CPL 39160). December, 2004.
World Bank. ICR Report 22930. Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport decentralization
Project (Loan CPL 36330; SCL 3633A). December, 2001.
World Bank. ICR Report 29805-BR. Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
Project (CPL 39150 SCL 3915A). December, 2004.




                                        33
Project chronology-Aide memoires

June 7, 1999            Preparation mission
August 9-10, 1999       Preparation mission
December 8-10, 1999     Preparation mission
February 11-17, 2000    Preparation mission
May 1-5, 2000           Pre appraisal mission
December 14, 2000       Project approved COFIEX
March 14, 2001          Supervision mission
February 20-22, 2002    Supervision mission
March 27-28, 2002       Supervision mission
June 28, 2002           Transference STU
July 12-16, 2002        Supervision mission
August 1, 2002          Loan agreement
November 7-8, 2002      Supervision mission
March 10-11, 2003       Supervision mission
July 7-8, 2003          Supervision mission
September 21-23, 2005   Supervision mission
November 25, 2005       Convenio 11/2005
February 15-17, 2006    Supervision mission
February 16, 2006       New closing date march 30, 2008
June 20, 2006           Loan agreement amendment
November 14, 2006       Supervision mission
February 26-27, 2007    Supervision mission
May 31-1, 2007          Supervision mission
January 8-10, 2008      Supervision mission
June 2, 2008            Closing date September 30, 2010
September 4, 2008       Supervision mission
March 2, 2009           Supervision mission
October 6-7, 2009       Supervision mission
March 15, 2010          Supervision mission
June 14-15, 2010        Supervision mission
August 16-17, 2010      Supervision mission (fiduciary)
August 23, 2010         Amendment Grace period till
                        January 31 2011




                                       34
                                                            To Ciudad Guayana
                                  70°W                                                             60°W                                                                     50°W                                                       40°W
                                                      R.B. DE                                      GUYANA
                                                    VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                       SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                       French
                                                                                                                                                       Guiana                                                                                                                               BRAZIL
                                                    r i n oc                                                                                            (Fr.)                                                 AT LA NT IC




                                                    O
                                                            o
                         COLOMBIA                                                      Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O CEA N
                                                                                                                                                             AMAP?                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                          RORAIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                             Macapá
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°                    RIVERS
                                                                                   Ne                                                                    zon
                                                                                     gro                                                              Ama                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                           A m a z o n                                                                                                               Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Luís
                                                                                          Manaus                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                       Am
                                                                            az o




                                                                                                                                        jó s
                                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                          Fortaleza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                      pa
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                       Ta




                                                                                                            eir
                                                                                                         ad
                                                                       B a s i n                                                                                                                                            Teresina                     RIO GRANDE




                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                             PA R ?                                 MARANHÃO                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CEAR?             DO NORTE
                                     AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Natal
                                                                   u
                                                                  s




                                                                Pur




                                                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                           Xing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARA?BA         João




                                                                                                                      Tele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIAU?                                            Pessoa




                                                                                                                           s
                                                                              Porto Velho                                                                                                                                                PERNA




                                                                                                                                                                                        Tocantins
                                                                                                                          Pir
                                                                                                                                 es                                                                                                           MBUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O             Recife
                              ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maceió




                                                                                                                                                                           ia
                                     Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                        Palma                           sc




                                                                                                                                                                     Aragua
                 10°S                                             RONDÔNIA                                  Juruena                                                                                                                                       ALAGOAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Aracaju




                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                TOCANTINS                           BAHIA
                                                                                                                                  MATO                                                                                                               SERGIPE
                           PERU                                                                                                  GROSSO
                                                                                                         Mato Grosso                                                             B r a z i l i a n                                            Salvador
                                                                                                           Plateau
                                                                                                                                            Cuiabá                                     F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         BRAS?LIA
                                                                 BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                   GOI?S           Goiânia          MINAS GERAIS

                      PAC IF IC                                                                To                                                                               H i g h l a n d s
                                                                                           Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                          MATO GROSSO                                                                          Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ESP?RITO
                      OC E AN        CHILE                                                                                   DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                          Grande                             Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SANTO
                                                                                                                      Paragu y




                 20°S                                                                                                                       Campo                                                                                                                20°S
                                                                                                                                            Grande                                                                          Vitória
                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                   Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                     SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                         á
                                                                                                                                                       an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                     Pa




                                                                                                         PARAGUAY                                                                São Paulo                   Rio de         JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Janeiro
                                                                                                                                                           PARAN?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AT L AN T I C
                                                                                                                                                                                  Curitiba
                                         BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                    STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                    Florianópolis

                                                                                                                                            RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                               DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                     Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0        200           400      600 Kilometers           30°S
                 30°S                                             ARGEN TINA
                                                                  ARGENTINA
SEPTEMBER 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33377R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                           To Buenos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                Aires
                                                                                                                          URUGUAY                                                                       0                   200          400 Miles                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                             70°W                                                       60°W                                                         50°W                                                   40°W
                                                                                                                                      To Montevideo
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
