a  -
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
` §5/-  /iA
Report No. 12340-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IOD
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
WAY 16, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12340 MX
Type: SAR
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regiona1 Office
This document has a restricted diStribution a_d may be usd by redpens  oly In the pedfomnne of
their official dutes. Its contens may not oterwise be disdosed wihuWoWtd Bank autozafion.



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENS
Currecy Unit             -           Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                              3.3 Pesos (as of May 1, 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  Decer 31
UNm OF WEIGHlS AND MEASURES
Metric                               BrtlshIUS Equablet
1 meter (m)              -           3.28 fei (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)         =           0.62 mie (m;)
1 kilogam (k)            =           2.20 pounds (1b)
I metric tn (m ton)      =           2,205 pounds
I liter (1)                          0.264 US gaon (gal)
1 hectare (ha)                       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMW
BANOBRAS           Natonal Development Bank for Public Works and Services (Banco
Naionl de Obras y Savicios Pdblicos)
WOT               Buid, Operate and Transfer
CETES              Mexian Govemments Treury Bills (CentLados de la Tesorerfa de la
Federaci6n)
CNA                Natonal Water Commission (ComiSidn  1cona ded Agua)
CONAPO             National Populaon Councl (Consjo Naconal de Pobbaidn)
CONSOLDACION Tecnmc  Assia    for the Development of Water Udlities
CPP                Mexican Banking System's Average Cost of Fumds
EAS                Asoation o' Water Utiities (Asoclaci6n de Empres  de Agua y
Saemeto)
ECU                Exeutive Coordinating Unit
E                  Environmental Impact Assesment
EIS                Environmental Impact Stament
El                 Endronmental Preventive Report
ICB                Internaional Competitive Bidding
ICG                Intna Cash Generato
IDB                Inter-Americ  Delpment Bank (Banco namerico de Desarrollo)
DEC                Intenato   Finane Corporato
JMTA               Me          Instit  of Waer Tehnlo   (bn M eMadcano deTecalo&ga
del Agua)
INK                Institute for Environmental Protection( tut Naclo   do Eclog)
AC                 Latin Amen and the Coibbean Region
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
NPWS               National Program for Water and Sewerage (known in Spansh as APAZU)
MIS                           Iniformation System
MP                 Master Plan
MU                 Memorandum of Undersanding
NAFrA              North American Free Trade Agreement (Ttado de Line Comeci-TLC)
NPWQI              Natio   Progam for Water Qualty ImProvement
PAHO               Pan American Health Organization
PI                 Poverty Idex
POA                Annual Operaonal Plan
PROFEPA            Attorney General for Envirmenl Protecn Pr aur  Federd de
Protecidn al Mbdio Ambiente)
SARH               Secriat of Agrdulure and Hydraulic Resures (Se tare  de
Agricultur y Recursos Hidiicos)
SEAPA              Stae Watr Supply and Saniton Subcommittee (Subcomitb Especial de
Agua Potable y Alcantarildo)
SECOCEF            Govnment Comptroler Office (Sectarfa de la Contrlorfa General de
l Federa6in)
SEDESOL            Secetariat of Social Development (Secretaria de Dearro    Socal)
SHCP               Secetara of Finance and Public CUedit (Scretaa do Hacienda y Cr0dito
Pdblico)
S tLPA             General Iformato System for the Water and Sanitation Sector (Sistma
do Informacifn para Agua Pota    y Akantllado)
SOLIDA  IDAD    The Government Povety Alleviaton Pam
SPF                Seariat of Planning and Budgeting (Secretarfa de Prograaci6n y
Presupueo)
SWSS               Stae Water Supply and Sation Subcommie (Suboomi Esecil de
Agua Potable y Saneaniento)
TA                 Teonica Assstance
UFW                Unaccounted for Water
WUs                Autoomous Water Utities and Opeting Agenies



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL RElRT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .........                         .................... 1.. i
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR  .................  1
A. Socio-Economic Setting .................................. 1
B. Sector Institutions and Legal Framework  ........ ..1............. 
Sector Institutions .      ................................... 1
Legal Framework  ............              .......................  2
C. Lessons learned from past projects                       ..                         3
D. Environmental Impact Assessment ................                                    S
E. Govemment's Sector Policy and Strategy .......................  6
F. Population and Sector Service Levels .......................... 7
G. Water Resources .         ....................................... 9
H. Health Aspects.    *..............-.-.-.-.--   10
I. Sector Service Level Targets, Investzent Program
andFinancing ...........                                                       10
3. Sector Issues .13
Increased Private Sector Participation'.'                                     13
Water Pollution Control .........                                             14
Federal Financing Policies ...................  .......... 16
Investment Planning and Analysis .........                                    16
Tariffs and Commercial Practices .........                                    17
ITHE PROJECT. ...................... 18
A. Project Origin .................... .                                              18
B. RationaleforBankInvolvement                .................. 18
C. ProjectObjectives                      .        .        .       ........... 18
D. Project Description                     .       .        .        ........... 19
E. Eligibility Citeria                   .        .        .       ............ 21
F. Project Cost                     .................. 22
G. Project Finanmcing                    .        .       .        ............ 24
H. ProjectImplementation ........................                                     2
I. Supervision and Reporting                 .         .         ............. 29
J. Procurement                      .................. 33
K. Disbursements                       .        .         . ............ 38
The report is based on the fndings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited Mexico in October 1993. The mission
consisted of Mmes.iMessrs. Luis A. Pereira (Task Manager and Sr. Fmiancial Analyst); Ventua Bengoechea (Sanitay
Engineer). CarlR. Bartone(Sr. EnvironmentalSpecialist). VioletaRosenthal(SeniorEconomist).EsperanzaMuandaandRend
Jarqufis (Consultants). Femando Monteno assisted in the final prepaation of the repor at Headquarte. Te peer reviewen
for the project were Bemardo Gdmez (ECIIV), Augusta Dianderas (rWUWS), Kss Ringskog (LATAD) and Harold Young
(Consultant). Alba Renero and Marfa-Rosa Schwart assisted in the production of the report Country Departnent Director
is Mr. Edilberto L. Segura. and the Division Chief is Mr. Marin Staab.
This document has a resWicted distnbution and may be used by recipients oay in the pfomaef the
afficial duties. Its conts may notheise bc disclosed without World B     authoizaon.



age No.
L. ProjectBenefits ..................                                           38
M. Environmental Impact ................................... 39
N. Risks ............................................. 39
0. International Waterways .....................                                39
HI. AGREEMENTS REACHED ........................,¢41
TABLES
Table 1.1    Population of Mexico 1970-1990 and 2000 (estimated) ..............         8
Table 1.2   Water Supply and Sanitatio,i Coverage        ..                             9
Table 1.3  Estimated Investment Plan 1994-1997                    ..11
rable 1.4  Sector Financing Plan             ..13
Table 2.1    Proiect Cost Estimate by Component ........ ..             ............. 23
Table 2.2    Cities With Less Than 80,000 Population. Mix of Funds ....        ....... 24
Table 2.3    Cities With Less Than 80,000 Population. Cost Sharing of Crants.  ... . 25
Table 2.4    Cities Above 80,000 Population. Mix of Funds              ..              25
Table 2.5  Project Financing Plan                          ..                          26
Table 2.6    Summary of Project Reporting  ...................... 31
Table 2.7    Procurement Arrangements  ..........                 ............ 36
Table 2.8    Alocation of Loan Amount            .................. 37
CHIART'S
Figure 1.3   Sector Investments 1990-1997 ......................                        11
ANNEXES
A.    Organizational Chart of CNA ......................                               45
B.    Specific Functions of Federal and State Institutions ................... 46
C.    Overview of the National Water Law ............................ 48
D.    CNA - Status of Water Law Approval at the State Level ................ 56
E.    Defmition of Sectoral and Project Monitoring Indicators ................ 57
F.    Regulations and Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment ....       ...... 60
G.    Proposed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Process  .............. 74
H.    Water Sector Policy Letter .................................. 76
I.    National Program for Water Quality Improvements (NPWQI) ....           ......... 80
J.    Water Pollution: River Basin Ranking  ........................... 89
K.    Guidelines for the Preparation of Master Plans ....................... 90
L.    Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance Subcomponent ....     ..... 96
M.   Structure of Federal Government Financial Assistance  ................ 100
N.    Memorandum of Understanding .............................. 106
0.  Organizational Chart of BANOBRAS .111



P.   National Bank for Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS)
Financial Review  .............. .   113
Q.   Executive Coordination Unit .........................                 121
R.   NationdaTrainingProgram              ........................ 125
S.   Priority Investments Recommended in Coresponding Master Plans
Covering a 3-year Period  ..........................   132
T.   Disbursement Schedule .......................... 137
U.   Selcted Documents Avaiblein the Project File ......     ............. 138
MAPS
Map IBRD No. 25397



MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
LIOAN AND IRJE  StlARY
Borrower    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios PSblicos (BANOBRAS).
Guantor:  United Mexican States
Fmxutine
Agencie and
lneficiarie: BANOBRAS, CNA (Comision Nacional del Agua), Mexican Institute of Water
Technology (IMTA), Autonomous, municipal and state water and sanitation
utilities (WUs).
Amount.    US$350 million equivalent.
Temns       Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variab!e rate.
Onlending
terms       BANOBRAS would onlend proceeds in peso denominated subloans to WUs, at
variable interest rates not lower than the Government Treasury bill rate (CETES)
or the Mexico banking system's average cost of funds (CPP) whichever is higher,
plus two percent points, with maturities of up to 15 years, including grace periods
of up to three years.
Obiectives:  The proposed project would continue to support the decentralization process
initiated under the ongoing water supply and sanitation project, with emphasis on
sustainability of investments and on addressing environmental concerns. The
objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve the quality and expand the
coverage of water and sanitation services; (b) strengthen the institutional capacity
of CNA to comply with its legal mandate to assist the local water utilities (WUs)
on technical matters; (c) reduce subsidies to the sector by promoting the
development of adequately sized WUs that are operationally and financially
autonomous; (d) support BANOBRAS' effort to enhance its capacity to appraise
and supervise subprojects; (e) encourage private sector participation by
establishing the appropriate legal and technical framework within which to attract
private investment; (f) improve the management of water resources overall; (g)
strengthen the sector's capacity to enforce environmental regulations and carry out
environmental impact assessments (ElAs); and (h) strengthen the institutional
capacity of IMTA.



- ii-
Deiption: The project would have fthee main components: (a) strengthening of the major
federal institutions that play a key role in the management of water resources; (b)
supporting the investment/operational plans of WUs; and (c) developing the
planning and environmental capabilities of the WUs to strengthen them as viable
and sustainable institutions.
The institutional development suWot for the federal agencies in the sect
(US$33.7 million) would strengthen the capabilities of CNA, IMTA and
BANOBRAS to provide assistance to the WUs, to evaluate and supervise the
imple.mentation of subprojects, to manage w.t'or resources and to develop cost-
effective policies to prevent water pollution.
The Investment Support to Local Wate  AL;Ii  ([JS$722.8 million) would
pro%ide a line of credit to WUs to fund sut:)rujects. Subprojects, would become
eligible for Bank financing by complying with agreed critena. Water utilites
would be eligible to participate and subloans could also be used to assist public
companies to subcontract services to the private sector by financing start up costs.
The items to be financed would include: (a) civil works for water supply and
distribution systems, as well as for wastewater collection and treatment projects;
0)b detailed engineering; (c) institutional strengthening, especially of commercial
and financial areas including macro and micro metering; and (d) staff training in
the management, operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems.
The Institutional Support for the WUs (US$13.5 million) would provide technical
assistance to the WUs that do not comply with the eligibility criteria and therefor
cannot be included within the investment support to WUs components. Technical
assistance under this component would be oriented to help the WUs to become
eligible and hence would be limited to: (a) prerwing master plans; (b) preparirg
environmental impact assessments; and (c) implementirng certain institutional
development programs, with particular emphasis on commercial and financial
areas including tariffs, water metering and reduction of unaccounted for water.
Most of the funds for this component will be provided as local grants.
ftect
Benefits:   Improved water quality can be expected to contribute to the control and eventual
eradication of cholera and to significant reductions in other gastro-intestinal
diseases, which are especially prevalent in the poorer areas of Mexico. The
project is expected to directly benefit about 10 million people. In addition, the
project would: contribute to the rationalization of sector investments; promote
water conservation through the implementation of more rational tariffs and the
reduction of unaccounted-for-water losses; stimulate intemal sector savings;
reduce the sector's dependence on Government funding; promote the adoption of
cost-effective policies to achieve environmental improvements, and encourage
investment in human resources in the environmental field.



- iii -
The technology involved in the proposed investments and the required technical
assistance do not pose any unusual risks. However, continued reform of sector
policies and institutions is a complex undertaking that is subject to various
political and other changes. Although major reform measures were taken under
the ongoing project, the following risks remain: (a) inadequate counterpart funds
due to govenrment delays in distributing its revenue-sharing contribution to the
states and municipalities; (b) failure to give the beneficiaries a real sense of
project ownership due to pressures from a more politically powerful CNA4 and the
Ministry of Social Development (SEDIESOL); (c) lack of coordination among
other federal programs such as SOLIDARIDAD that may introduce policy
changes affecting overall implementation of sector policies agreed to in the
context of the project; and (d) BANOBRAS having to relax subproject
conditionality due to political pressures from central and local governments. The
project has been designed to reduce these risks to an acceptable level. To that
effect agreements were reached that: (a) adequate funding of subprojects would
be a condition of Bank approval; (b) the project would fund the preparation of
master plans; and (c) project financial conditions would be in accordance with the
Annex to the Operation Manual of SOLIDARIDAD, dated January 1993 (Anexo
al Manu; Unico de Operacidn del Programa Nacional de Solidaridad, enero
1993).
Ratef
BRetum:    All subprojects for water supply and sewage will be required to demonstrate a
minimum rate of return of 12%
Impact:    For water utilities located in municipalities of less than 80,000 inhabitants, federal
and state grant funds would be allocated based on the Poverty Index.



- iv -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONEN
(uS$ Million)
Component                                 Local   Foreign  Subtot.   % of
Total
I. Strengthening Sectoral Federal Institutions
CNA         .                           .       16.4        a       ju
Institutional Strengthening          0.9        1.5      2.4      0.3
Technical Assistance to WlUs          0.9       5.0       5.8      0.8
Water Quality Program                 2.7       9.9      12.7      1.6
iMTA                                     .                 6.6
Institutional Strenothening           0.3       1.5       1.9      0.2
Technical Assistance to WUs           0.2       4.5       4.7      0.6
BANOBRAS                                         L1 1               04
institutional Strengthening           1.9       1.2       3.1      0.4
Subtotal I *                              7.0      23.6      30.6      4.0
II. Investment Support to Local Water Utilities
Water Supply & Sewerage Works       313.0    301.1    614.1      79.8
Studies and Design                  21.9      21.1      43.0       5.6
Subtotal I*                            334.9    322.2    657.1    85.3
Ill. Institutional Support for Water Utilities
Preparation of MPs & ElAs             2.1      2.7        4.8      0.6
Help w/ "CONSOLIDACION"               6.0       1.5       7.5      1.0
Subtotal Ill                              8.1      4.2       12.3      1.6
Subtotal Proect Cost                     350.0    350.0    700.0    90.9
Taxes                                      70.0                70.0      9.1
Total Projet Cost                        420.0    350.0    770.0   100.0
N Not: Subtotg uomta may not add exct due to rourig.
TA81E2-1 .XLS
511619



.-
]PROJECT FINANCING PLAN'
(US$ Million)
Sources of Funds                        Local    Foreign      Totl       % of T
IBRD                                  _______       350        350         45
Fedeal Grant                             185    _              185         24
State Grant                              120    _              120          16
WUs' Internal Cash Generation            115                   115          15
Total Pioject                           420        350        770         100
1. The mixof fedoa!, stae and WUs' ICO is indtve. It is based on asmptio  about thoe si
of te cities that ane expected to participate in the pred and on t  ty  of subprecta that ste
expted to be financod.
Etmated Disbuisement
(US$ Millions)
BANK FY  1994          99S       1996      1997       199     1999
Annual          0    80           110       100    Is         10
I Cumlative      0        80        190      290       340       350
27 lIcludes diabursment of up to US$35 million reflectg retwctive financing for expenditre iwnc d
after Jly 7, 1993 and the initial deposit into the Special AccounL
Map. IBRD No. 25397



I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Socio-Economic Setting
1.1   Faced with the aftermath of the debt crisis of 1982, Mdeicc broke vith its calier policies
of protection and state regulation and adopted an oitwLrd-orientiA, pAivate sectr-led,
development strategy. The new policies have succeeded in 'stabilizing the economy and have led
to a modest recovery in growth. The key elements in the success of the strategy have been
fiscal austerity, the opening of the economy, and a changing rolk for the Govenawent. Infiation
has dropped sharply to less than 10% in 1993, down fromra an average of 90% per annli during
1982-88. Through a combination of expenditure cuts and increases in reverue, tie overall fiscal
balance went from a deficit of 15.6% of GDP in 1982, to a surpluts of about .IJ% of GDP in
1992.  The Govemnment's direct role in the economy has ben r:-e4  throtgh the
implementation of a sweeping privatization program  which ha generatz fornds ii excess of
US$21 billion. Finally, passage of the North American Free Trale Agreermtnt (NAFTA), will
further strengthen the transformation of the Mexican economy.
B. Sector Ibstitutions and Legal Framework
Sector InsdXtions
1.2   Major efforts have already been made by the Government to improve the efficiency of
the water sector's institutional set-up and to modernize the legal framework (para. 1.5).
Amendments to the Mexican constitution made in 1983 assigned to municipalities the
responsiblity for the provision of water supply and sanitation servces. The National Program
for Water and Sewerage (NPWS)1 financed by the on-going water sector loan, Loan 3271-ME,
supported the development of financially autonomous municipal water utilities (WUs)2 to
provide these services. Some municipalities still manage their water services directly, together
with other services. At the state level, the NPWS progmm supports the establishment of
autonomous state WUs. Such agencies mostly operate small water systems for several
municipalities to take advantage of economies of scale when individual municipalities are too
small to run their own systems efficiently.
1.3   The Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARE) is responsible for water
administration through its agency, the National Water Commission (CNA), which was created
in 1990. Its organizational Chart is shown in Annex A. CNA is now the primary technical
sector support agency both in water supply and sanitation, and in irrigation. CNA, in
coordination with the Borrower, the National Development Bank for Public Worls and Services
1. Also known in spanisb by the name of APAZU.
2. A WU is classified as autonomous if it has its own separte legal personity, its finances
are independent of the municipality or the state, it has ownership of all its assets, proper
commercial accounting and auditing, and a Board of Directors wi final lega autoity to
mage its operstios



-2-
(BANOBRAS), the Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL) and the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), has delegated to the Mexican Institute of Water Technology
(IMTA), also under S.RM the design and implementation of the National Training Plan for the
sector. IMTA also provicus tchnical support to WUs. Under this arrangement, the role of
SEDESOL in the water sector has been limited to funding sector investnent, the issuance of
official v;ater standards and environmental evaluations. All other aspects of water management
are the responsibility of CNA. In May 1992, responsibility for enforcing water effluent and
environmental standards was transferred to CNA.
1.4 To help coordinate and standardize state sectoral needs with federal and state plans and
resources, State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees (SWSSs) have been created in all
states. The SWSSs represent all sector-related federal and state agencies, and are the focal
points for sectoral planning at the state level. The main responsibilities of the SWSS's are to:
(a) coordinate state sector activities; (b) set sector priorities for water use; (c) select communities
where water and sanitation sector investments would take place; and (d) assign state grant funds
together with loan resources coming from BANOBRAS. The SWSSs function under an existing
bylaw (Reglamnento) which was updated in January 1993. Detailed information on the Specific
Functions of Federal and State Institutions is shown in Annex B.
Lea Frammivrk
1.5   Significant progress has been achieved in modernizing the sector's legal framework
through the National Water Law and the Federal Water Charges law (para. 1.6). The National
Water .1a, (Annex C) introduced changes that facilitate the development of water markets,
promote private sector investments and encourage water conservation. Modifications, aimed at
better defining water property rights, include concession renewals for periods of up to SO years
each, and ability to change water use and transfer concession titles without prior government
approval. The National Water Law also mandates the creation of river basin councils (pam.
1.42) to coordinate and manage resources in an integrated manner. Furthermore, the law
establishes that concessions for water and drainage systems can be granted to the private sector.
The General Ecology and Environmental Protection Law, passed in 1988, contains important
regulations for the preservation of the quality of water resources.
1.6 The Federal Water Charges Law, established pollution charges applicable to all
discharges in excess of those set by the applicable standards. The fees being applied by the
CNA take into account the volume of discharge, the degree of pollution, amount of suspended
solids, and regional water scarcity. They are being applied to both industries and municipalities
discharging into national waters. The law provides a grace period of up to 24 months if the
polluter demonstrates that it will take actions to comply with the law.



-3 -
C. Lessons Learned from Past Projects
1.7   Bank involvement in the water supply and sanitation sector strted in 1973 with the
approval of the first water supply loan. To date, six loans totaling about US$ 675 million have
been made. The first loan financed bulk water supply facilities for Meaco City. The next hree
loans financed physical improvements in various medium-sized cities. The first four projects
achieved their physical targets but, because of weak Government commitment to sector reforms,
the institutional and financial objectives were not attained. The fifth loan, which aimed at
supporting water and sanitation facilities and productive opportunities for women, never became
effective and was canceled because the Mexican Government had other means to address the
project's objectives. The sixth loan is the on-going water supply and sanitation sector project.
Unlike previous efforts, the ongoing sector loan achieved reasonable success in strengthening
sector institutions. The project aimed correctly at fomulating and implementing policies of
decentralization that are now in effect. It reduced Government participation in the financing of
the sector. For the first time beneficiaries participated in a limited degree in the design and
decision maidng mechanisms for the formulation of subprojects. Financial self-sufficiency was
increased by increasing the amount of collecton and the efficiency of the WUs.
1.8   The ongoing project, (Loan 3271-ME, US$300 million, 01/18/1991) is 95% disbursed
and 100% committed. It is expeced that this project will be completed and closed in 1994, two
years ahead of schedule. The project attained its objectives, including the reformulation of
sector stategies. It made possible important achievements. The project initiated the
standardization of state water laws that allow for the granting of concessions, the cutting off of
service for lack of payment, and the approval of tariffs at the local level. As of October 1993,
12 states have implemented new state laws in accordance with the model prepared by the CNA
and by 1996 all Mexican states are expected to have the new state laws in place. innex D).
These legal changes are important factors for the development of new policies and strategies
for the sector, especially in regard to financial improvement of the WUs and the participation
of the private sector in all areas of the sector.
1.9   Other achievements under the ongoing project include: (a) a substantial reduction in
Government subsidies to the sector and those still in place are earmarked for to the smaller and
poorer municipalities, (further achievements in this area will take place under the proposed
project (Annex E)); (b) an increase in private sector participation in the sector with all
construction and some services being done through contracts with the private sector, (c) more
than 90% of the cities with populations larger than 80,000 now have autonomous WUs; (d)
coverage of water services and sanitation is increasing at a much faster rate than in the past; (e)
special attention has been given to improving water quality by increasing chlorination; (f) more
emphasis has been given to environmental aspects by supportng a pilot pollution control
program in the Lerma-Chapz!a river basin; and (g) trning has tamen front stage by reo ng
and giving much needed technical assistance (TA). This has allowed a larger number of staff
to be trained to operate and manage the WUs.



-4-
1.10   Most of the problems encountered during the implementation of the ongoing project were
due to the lack of involvement of BANOBRAS to ensure that the project's development
objectives were met. BANOBRAS failed to comprehensively supervise its state representatives
and exercise proper supervisory control using a Management Information System (MIS). CNA's
Technical Assistance program started slowly due to a lack of decision on the part of the
Government to hire the required external consultant to set up CNA's organization and to provide
TA to the WUs. Also, the weak quality of the feasibility studies prepared by the WUs and CNA
were a major problem. The reason for expecting better implementation performance in the
future is that BANOBRAS has been reorganized and its management has been replaced with a
more dynamic team. In addition, the proposed project will support the creation of an MIS in
BANOBRAS (para. 2.8 (d)) that will provide adequate follow up in the implementation of the
project. In addition, the proposed project will ensure good quality studies through the aequired
Master Plan for each WU receiving a subloan for investment purposes (para. 2.11 (b)), which
will be reviewed by the Bank.
1.11 One of the main lessons identified during the implementation of the ongoing project was
that feasibility studies done by the WUs were not satisfactory. They lacked a well thought out
nalysis of their problems and most of the solutions were not least-cost. Under the proposed
project, in order to obtain financing, each WU would need to prere a medium tern master
plan following specific guidelines (para. 2.32). The implementation of the institutional
strengthening component for the WUs by CNA has been slower than expect  due mainly to the
lack of trained and experienced staff in the WUs. The proposed project includes a training
progmm to meet the needs of the WUs (para. 2.7 and 2.10).
1.12 To benefit from the experiences of water and sewerage projects in other countries, an
analysis of relevant "Lessons Learned" was undertaken by OED in June 1992. The review was
based on twelve Project Completion Reports and or Project Audit reports in the water and
sanitation sector dating from 1967 to 1989. The main lessons identified during this review, are
as follows:
(i) Institutional strengthening: Weak organizations not only resist internal
reform but also inhibit overall policy changes.
(ii) Slower than expected implementation: Slow project implementation
occurred for a variety of reasons, including lack of familarity with Bank
procedures, optimistic scheduling at appraisal, and inadeuate design
documents. These problems have been largely resolved during the
execution of the ongoing project.
1.13  The main problems encountered to date in the operation and peformance of WUs are:
(a) high unaccounted-for water (UFW); (b) high number of employees per 1000 water
connections; (c) high cost per employee per unit of water sold; (d) lack of intemal cash
geneation (ICG) which led to high debt service; (e) lack of timely increases in tariffs and lack
of control over operating costs including administrative and power costs; and (f) lack of
maintenance of the facilities built. Ptogress has been made in resolving all of these problems
under the ongoing project.



-5-
D. Environmental Impact Assessment
1.14 To obtain authorization, all water works, public and private, must undergo an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or submit a prior notice, demonstrating that the activity
in question will not cause negative environmental impacts, nor exceed the limits and standards
defined by technical regulation. The assessment and/or prior notice is reviewed by the
Environmental Protection Institute (INE) before approval is granted. Approval is conditional
on the implementation of actions to ensure compliance with existing environmental regulations.
In this process, INE has broad discretionary authority to impose and enforce environmental
protection conditions. For water sector projects, guidelines on the environmental requirements
have been agreed between INE and CNA. The review of EIA's is centralized at INE's
headquarters in Mexico City. The effectiveness of the EIA process has been jeopardized because
of insufficient human resources at INE and inadequate technical capacity in Mexico to perform
EIAs3. During negotiations, BANOBRAS agreed on a methodology regarding the
procedure to verify and implement the EIA requirements (Annex G), which clearly
identifies the responsibilities of the INE, WU, CNA and BANOBRAS in the preparation
and verification of compliance with EA requirements and in the provision of funding for
environmental mitigation measures (para. 3.1 (a)).
1.15 All the environmental standards of the country are being reissued in accordance to a
'Weights and Measurements" law enacted in 1992. The law requires that all standards including
environmental standards, be subject to cost/benefit analysis and that a consultation process with
all affected parties be instituted. Following a 90 day period for public consultation, the Official
Mexican Standards for Environmental Protection were published in October, 1993. They include
39 standards relating to wastewater discharges from specific sources. The consultative process
was effective and led to the modification of some standards. With few exceptions, the effluent
standards are modeled after those issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
and most are equally stringent. These standards are a useful tool for environmental control, but
they also require a strong institutional back-up for effective implementation. In addition, some
of the effluent limits fail to consider differences in the cost of abatement among polluters and
in the actual pollution levels among regions.
1.16 CNA is developing a system of discharge permits that will address some of these
shortcomings by relying on self-reporting and consideration of regional pollution levels. The
implementation of the system is expected to start in 1995. These ef.forts will be supported by
the project (para. 2.6). Furthermore, the introduction of water discharge fees under the Water
Charges Law was a good initiative and marks the Government's first attempt to introduce
market-based instruments to control pollution. This has been followed by the introduction of
a system of tradable permits for the phasing out of CFC under the Montreal Protocol to reduce
ozone depleting substances.
3. This problem is being remedied under the Mexico Enviroment Project (MEP) (Loan
3261-ME), which supports the strengthening of INE's capabilities to review ETAs.



-6-
E. Governmuent's Sector Policy and Strategy
1.17 As previously noted, (para. 1.5) the current administration has made considerable progress
in establishing a coordinated legal policy and institutional framework within which to manage
the country's scarce water resources. As a result, Mexico now has a well-conceived water
management framework. The challenge in the years ahead is how to apply this framework
effectively.
1.18 The Government has prepared a Water Sector Policy Letter (Annex H). The salient
strategies in the policy letter, which outlines the Government's objectives, policies and strategy
for the sector, are the following: (a) the decentralization of water systems within a well-defined
overall framework; (b) sustainable development of water resources with emphasis on rational and
efficient resource use and increased efficiency in the operation of the WUs; and (c) presevton
of water quality and the environment, by taidng the river basin as the basic unit for water
nanagement. At the basin level, quality and quantity issues for all users are considered,
including related surface and groundwater development, municipal and industrial water supply
and waste management, and agricultural uses (para. 1.40). During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the final text of the policy letter (pan. 3.2 (a)).
1.19 The main challenges will continue to be the implementation of existing legislation, the
effective devolution of responsibilities to the states and municipalities, the implementation of
river basin management, a more effective use of indirect instruments for pollution control such
as pollution charges and taxes, and encouragement of community participation through the
establishment of river basin councils. An important gap is the lack of data needed to quantify
environmental problems, to design cost-effective and efficient environmental policies and to
assess the impact of policies on investments. Available information only allows qualitative
assessments and the establishment of rough orders of magnitude to rank priorities. Furthermore,
litte progress has been made regarding the control of industrial discharges. This stems partly
from the fact that control relies mainly on the issuance of source-specific discharge standards.
1.20 To meet the above chall&;ges, the CNA has prepared the National Program for Water
Quality Improvement (NPWQI) (Annex I). This program aims at: (a) monitoring water quality
and assessment; (b) continuing the development of effluent standards and discharge permits;
(c) developing sanitation and treatment infrastructure; (d) better management of river basin
pollution; and (e) strengthening the sector's institutional capacity, with emphasis on enforcement
that relies on a credible self-reporting system. The program includes policy actions, quantitative
goals and estimated investment needs. This program is fully supported by the proposed project.
1.21 The strategy underlying NPWQI, is based on the concept of integrated water
management. It recognizes the need to coordinate with other federal agencies such as SEDESOL
and the Secretariat of Health in the area of environmental protection; the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit with regard to revenues and investment funding, as well as with the states,
municipalities and consumers who are responsible for the implementation of water regulations
and are the beneficiaries of the program. To facilitate the implementation of this approach at
the regional level, river basin councils are being established. Under the leadership of CNA,



- 7-
with the participation of consumers, state and municipal governments, and federal agencies.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that CNA would provide the status of basin
studies in an annual comprehensive progress report to be submitted to BANOBRAS (para.
3.2 (b)).
1.22 To implement the decentralization strategy and to achieve a sustainable development of
water resources- the Government has developed a program to strengthen the operational and
administrative efficiency of WUs. The program is based on an integrated approach to
institutional strengthening and planning for water management within a medium-term framework,
and on the decentralization of services by supporting the establishment of financially and
technically self-sufficient, autonomous water utilities and promoting the provision of services by
the private sector. The program emphasizes improvements and optimal use of existing
infrastructure, strengtiening management capabilities and modernization of state legislation. The
activities supported by the program include: (a) improving management practices; (b) promoting
the use of economically iustifiable tariffs to recover costs, improving efficiency of the sector and
demand-side management; (c) generatng higher revenue collections through better commercial
practices; (d) reducing operating and maintenance costs; (e) expanding service coverage;
(f) developing rational investment programs grounded in appropriate planning that integrates
sustainability and environmental criteria and general improvement in service quality;
(g) adjusting the financing policy for sector investments to reduce reliance on central government
contributions and increase resource mobilization by the WUs; (h) encouraging the parficipation
of the private sector in construction, operation and maintenance, and environmental control; and
(Q) strengthening the water sector's institutonal capacity, including the moderiion of the legal
framework, water policies, informadon systems and procedures, as well as the technical and
professional development of people working in the sector at all levels. The project has been
designed to support these objectives.
F. Population and Sector Service Levels
1.23 The l990 population of Mexico was 81.7 million, the latest year for which census figures
are available. Population growth has slowed considerably dunng the past two decades. It is
now 2.6% per year, in contrast to 3.5% in the fifties and sixties. This slowdown is the result
of major efforts in family planning initiated by the Government in 1972 in an attempt to reduce
population growth to 1% per year by the year 2000.
1.24 The proportion of population living in urban areas (defined as population centers with
more than 2500 inhabitants) jumped from 59% in 1970 to 72% in 1990, despite efforts to
improve living conditions and economic opportunities in rural areas. It is expected that during
the remainder of this century, population growth will be almost exclusively in urban areas.
More than half (52%) of the total population lives in just 84 cities. A full one fourth lives in
four cities alone: Mexico, Guadalajara, Monterrey and Puebla. Table 1.1 below provides
information about Mexico's population growth since 1970.



- 8 -
Table 1.1
Population of Mexico 1970 - 1990 and 2000 (estimated)
Population in Millions
Year          Total         Mexico City    Other Urban    Rural Areas
Population    Metro Area    Areas          (<2500pop)
_______ ___  ___ _____  (>2500  pop)
1970         48.2           8.8  (18%)   19.5  (40%)   19.9 (42%)
1980         67.4           14.0  (21%)   31.6  (47%)   21.8 (32%)
1990          81.7          18.0  (22%)   40.7  (50%)   23.0 (28%)
2000          100.0         23.4  (23%)   52.6  (53%)   24.0 (24%)
1.25 Coverage, (i.e., the percentage of people connected to a water supply system, 84% in
1992, or wastewater disposal service 67% in 1992) is rather low compared with countries at a
similar development stage in LAC.4 Available data (see Table 1.2) shows the number of
people who are connected to the service, but it says nothing about the quality of the service,
water quality, or the adequacy of operations and maintenance.
1.26 Before 1980, coverage generally increased by more than the population increase. After
1980, due to the debt crisis, budgetary constrains and insufficient attention to the sector up to
1992, coverage more or less matched population growth, stagnating particularly in the final years
of the decade. By the end of 1992, progress had been restored, due to significantly increased
investments and the reorganization of the sector with clearer responsibility given to CNA.
Taking into consideration the progress made during the last two years and the plans of the
Mexican govemment, it is expected that a significantly larger percentage of the population will
be adequately served by mid-decade. During the period 1994-97, the sector is expected to have
an additional two million new water connections that will cover a population of about 13 million
people (assuming an estimated six household occupants per connection). In addition, 2.4 million
new sewerage connections are expected to be installed covering a population of about 14.4
million persons (Annex E). Most of these improvements would be made possible by the
proposed project. Table 1.2 presents actual coverage for water supply and sanitation from 1970
to 1991 and estimates for the years 1995 to 2000.
4. Other LAC countries present the following figures for coverage for the year 1990: Brazil,
Colombia and Costa Rica have water coverage of 96%, 89% and 92% respectively.
Sewerage coverage including septic tank connections are: 79%, 97% and 96% respectively.
Source: PAHO 'Health Conditions In The Americas".



-9-
Table 1.2
Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage
(population in millions)
Year        Total              Water Supply                Sanitation
Population    Population    Percentage    POpulaton    Pert
Served                    Served
1970        48.2         23.8         49           17.6         37
1980        67.4         46.9         70           32.9         49
1990        81.7         60           73           47           58
1990*       82.5         66.1         80.1         52.2         63.3
1991*       84.1         68.9         81.9         S4.7         65.0
1992*       85.7         71.9         83.9         57.2         66.7
1995*       92           82           89           67           73
1996        92.2         81.9         88.7         69.2         7S.0
1997        94.0         84.4         89.8         72.2         76.8
1998        95.7         86.9         90.7         75.2         78.5
1999        97.5         89.4         91.6         78.2         80.2
2000*       100          94           94           82           82
* No": 1990,1991 and 1992 fipae and prqetioun for 1995 and 2000 ar fiom CNA. Beginnig with the coss of 1990, the defintin of
aces has been changed to in-ho  or o-ite (wd connection) service. h excludes sandpips suply (previouy included) for waer, and
conneco toe a swer sysem or to septic ank Ou not other men such as other on-sit or off-sie discharge) for watewar.
G. Water Resources
1.27 Mexico's water resources are unevenly distributed. Average rainfall ranges from 100
mm/year in the dry zones of the north to 5,000 mm/year in the tropical lowlands of the south.
In addition, while 70% of the popuadon and 80% of the country's industrial plants are located
above 500 m elevation, only about 15% of the country's surface water is above that elevation.
This results in considerable transport costs for municipal and industrial water supplies.
1.28 As in most countries, agriculture is the largest water user in Mexico, accounting for
about 80%. Municipal water supply, the main subject of the proposed project, accounts for
about 11% of the country's total demand for water resources. Industry accounts for only about
7%, with other uses accounting for the remaining 2%. Treated and untreated wasewat  is a



- 10-
significant source of irrigation water near some population centers. Some 7% of all irrigation
water now used is either wastewater or a mixture of fresh water and wastewater.
..29 Deterioration of ground water quality is an increasingly important problem: arsenic
poisoning in the northern area, pollution due to infiltration from wastewater discharges and
leaching from dumps in the valley of Mexico and other urban areas. Non-point source pollution
particularly from agrochemicals is also a problem in agriculturl areas. The solution to this
problem lies partly in regulating land use and use of agrochemicals. These issues are treated
separately, in the context of river basin management. Depletion of groundwater has resulted in
salinization of coastal aquifers, mainly in Baja California, Sonora and Yucatan. To correct thi
problem, groundwater extraction has been banned in half of the country and regulations to
control extraction in other aquifers are being implemented. So far, because of cumbersome
procedures to obtain authonzation to use wastewater, and low tanffs that make it unprofitable
to build treatment facilities, limited use has been made of water recycling for urban and
industrial uses, except for some isolated cases mainly in Monterrey and Mexico City.
H. Health Aspects
1.30 G3astro-intestinal diseases, related to unsafe water and lack of sanitation, are still one of
the principal causes of morbidity and infant mortality in Mexico. In 1990, intestinal disease was
the number one cause of death in Mexico, with a rate of 32.8 per 100,000 people. Incidence
of diarrhea was 4,342 per 100,000 for the same year and showed no improvement by 1992.
Mexico has also been hard hit by the cholera outbreak which has plagued several Latin American
countries, with 2,690 reported cases in 1991, which jumped to 8,162 cases in 1992. To control
the spread of cholera, in April 1991, a Clean Water Program with funding under the ongoing
project, was launched which aimed to chlorinate 100% of all water systems in Mexico. At the
start of the program, 52% of water supply sources were being disinfected; eight months later
it reached 83% and by November 1993, the level was 96%. The emphasis now is to ensure
proper and continuous operation of the disinfection systems that have been instaLled by providing
technical assistance to the water utilties and regularly monitoring water quality. Recent statistics
give causes for encouragement. Data for the first 32 weeks of 1993 show a 10% decline in fte
incidence of diarrhea over the same period in 1992.
1.31 The use of untreated wastewater for irrigation is also a health problem. It is estimated
that about 240,000 hectares are being irrigated with untreated wastewater in 1991, one tenth
of this type of irrigation was employed on vegetables which are eaten raw. As part of the
cholera prevention campaign, the use of wastewater for irrigating such vegetables was banned;
according to the Secretanat of Health, the practice has been almost fully eradicated.
L Sector Service Level Targets, Investment Program and Fnancing
1.32 The federal sector authorities plan to provide piped water mnd sewerage services to 94%
and 82% of the population, respectively, by the year 2000. These targets, albeit short of full
coverage, especaly in the sewerage area, are ambitious. Achieving them would require



- 11'-
supplying about 21 million more inhabitants with water and 25 million with sewer services by
the year 2000. To meet these service levels, the total investment requirements for the period
1994-2000 are estimated at US$10 billion (about 1% of GNP per year), based on unit costs of
representative subprojects financed under Loan 3271-ME. At the present rate of investment
Crable 1.3), it is likely that the targets for the year 2000 will not be met.
1.33 For 1994-1997, the Govemnment proposes an investment program that amounts to about
US$5.3 billion and is summarzed in Table 1.3 below:
Table 1.3
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Esthnated Investment Plan 1994-1997
(Millions of US$)
I_______         1994         1995         196          1997      TOTAL
Water Supply      875          819          700         660       3,054
Sewerage          314          342          318         353       1,327
Treatment         144          205          255         306        910
TOTAL       I   1,333         1,366        1,273       1,319      5,291
Sector Investment 1990-97
1,400.0
1,200.0
1,000.0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water Supply
800.0                                                 -------- Sewerage
<#> 600.0 -                                                  .   Treatment
400.0 °-                                     =-.-.-... Total
200.0_ __._,   - .                          __--.
0.0    ........0
0a    0     0     0      0w    0     0     en
I-    X     - X   a



- 12 -
1.34 The proposed Sector Investment Plan for 1994-97 entails a 42% increase in investment
over the amount invested in 1990-1993. This will tax the implementation capacity of the WUs,
but it is feasible, taldng into account proposed strengthening efforts in cost recovery and the
increased role of the private sector. The Mexican construction industry, which is well
developed, together with intemational firms will be able to meet these increased demands. The
program will emphasize improving existing management, operation and maintenance of WUs
before large new investments are undertaken. In addition, the program shows an important
increase in expenditures for wastewater treatment. This increase reflects the desire of the
Government to place increased emphasis on sanitation and improve environmental conditions.
1.35 The proposed Sector Investment Plan, although modest relative to the needs, will require
a major injection of intemal cash generated by the WUs. As seen in the sector financing plan
that is presented in Table 1.4, the water and sewerage operating agencies are expected to
increase internal cash generation (ICG) in order to contribute to sector investment. To
participate with the required ICG, WUs will need to generate revenues not only to contribute
towards the initial investments, but also to repay loans and to provide for adequate operation and
maintenance. Also, additional funding sources will be required to ensure the financing needed
by the proposed investment plan. This additional funding is expected to come from investments
made by the private sector through BOT schemes, which are now being used for the construction
and operation of wastewater treatment plants (para. 1.45).



- 13 -
Table 1.4
Sector Financing Plan
1994-1997               1990-1993
(Millions of US$)
Projected                Actual
Total Investments                        5,291               4,032
To be financed by:
Domestic Financing
Federal Government                       1,870               1,750
State Government                         1,175               1,091
Private Participation                     707                  100
Internal Net Cash Generation
(ICG) of the WUs                   794                 470
External Financing
World Bank430*                                                330
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)   274                   250
Other borrowings                           44                  37
*Besides te US$350 mii frs gm PrOo  oam the Bank is plann t paripate, in Xt st it au
aditial US$80 m;lli from tde Propoed Noed=e Border Eaoumt Project, to be iplee,e im
psl to tis ptoject. Thus. di. Baak paticpatiou in the sedor duing th 1994-97 period would be US$427
nH or about 8a of the tot ivestmen
J. Sector Issues
1.36 The Most important sectoral issues are described below. They involve: increased private
sector participation, water pollution control, federal financing policies, investment planning and
analysis, and tariffs and commercial practices.
Increased Private Sector Participation
1.37 The participation of the private sector in water supply and sanitation has so far been
minimal. However, the Government wishes to increase pnvate sector participation. CNA is
setting up a laboratory certification and quality assurance program, whereby CNA would play
a regulatory and supervisory role while sampling and analytical work would be done by certified
private laboratories. The certification program is being developed and implemented by IMTA
(para. 2.7) with specific training targets for the next three years startng in January 1, 1995.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that CNA would provide a progress report on
the preparation of a water qualiy laboratory and certification program (para 3.2(c)).



- 14 -
1.38 The private sector is also expected to play an increasing role in infrastructure
development. It is already actively participating in the financing, construction and operation of
wastewater treatment plants (para. 1.48). In addition, the private sector is now beginning to get
involved in the provision of water supply. A pilot project has been initiated with encouragement
by CNA in the city of Aguas Calientes where foreign companies together with the local
government and private investors have the option to obtain a concession for 30 years for the
provision of water and sanitation services. Private sector assistance in improving management
systems and training is also envisioned. One important concern to be addressed under the
project is to ensure that the private sector is given the appropriate incentives and is subject to
adequate regulations to ensure that gains in efficiency materialize. To this end, CNA has
prepared model contracts for WUs for use in the bidding process approved by the Bank during
the implementation of Loan 3271-ME. As part of the technical assistance under the proposed
project (para 2.6), CNA will study the best alternative for the implementation of an acceptable
regulatory framework to encourage private sector participation in the sector.
1.39 The private sector is expected to play an important role in expanding the country's water
treatment capacity. Government estimates that the pnvate sector wiU invest around US$700
million in treatment plants over the 1993-94 period alone and a total of US$1 billion by 1998.
The construction of a treatment plant in Puerto Vallarta, with partial financing from the
International Finance Corporation (IFC), and two treatment plants for Ciudad Juarez under BOT
schemes are under way. It is expected that all other treatment plants, except stabilized lagoons,
will be built under similar schemes.
Water Pollution
1.40 Although water pollution control has been a key objective of water resources planning
since the early 70s, only in recent years has the effective implementation of enforcement acdons
started. This includes the integrated approach to pollution management adopted in the Lerma-
Chapala Basin,  -ported by the ongoing water sector project; the implementation of pollution
prevention actions through the requirement of ElAs for all investments; the enactment of water
discharge standards; and the application of water pollution discharge fees.
1.41 The Lerma-Chapala Basin was selected to test integrated water pollution control policies,
based on the concept of river basin management. While it is still too early to determine the
results of the investments and programs -implemented so far, as the Basin Council was
established only in 1989, it is possible to distill some lessons that can be useful to manage other
priority basins. The results to date suggest the need for: (a) more state and local involvement
in the planning and implementation of the programs; (b) establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system to assess the impact of the investment program; (c) developing technical
assistance programs to improve the operational efficiency and enforce industrial pretreatment;
(d) more attention to the financial sustainability of the investments; and (e) a more efficient way
to bring industry into compliance other than the issuance of specific effluent standards.
1.42 To promote the extension of the Lerma-Chapala approach to other nver basins, the CNA
will fund with its own resources river basin studies in priority basins. As a first step, the CNA
will develop a report to update current kIowledge on the status of the 20 priority basins, which



- 15 -
is based on 1981 data. At the same time, under the project, CNA will develop a simplified
methodology to establish effluent standards considering the basin pollution level (para. 2.30).
CNA is now preparing the Terms of Reference for the study of the Rio Grande basin. The
consultants will be financed by CNA with support from the Federal Government. The proposed
project will assist in the financing of WUs that may require investments to improve water quality
in any water basin under consideration.
1.43 Inadequate control of municipal and industrial wastewater discharges is also an important
health hazard. Almost 90% of these discharges are concentrated in 20 basins (See Annex n).
The three largest cities of Mexico (Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara) generate 40% of
municipal discharges, and some 80 cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants account for another
30%. Only a small fraction of municipal and industrial wastewater is being treated, including
approximately 20% of municipal discharges and 12% of industrial discharges. Furthermore, the
operating efficiency varies widely; measures c! efficiency, such as removal of organic matter
vary from 30% to 97%. About half of the existing plants are stabilized lagoons with a low
capacity to remove organic and other soluble contaminants. One third are activated sludge and
the rest comprise different technologies. There is no reliable inventory of private sector
treatment facilities, but it is estimated that there are some 300 private plants.
1.44 About 40% of industrial wastewater is discharged into municipal systems and 60% is
discharged directly into water bodies. The municipalities are responsible for the control of all
discharges into their systems, and have the legal obligation to characterize the quality of the
effluent and to force industries to pretreat their wastewater. This responsibility is rightly placed
in the municipalities since they in turn are responsible for the quality of their sewerage
discharges to federal water bodies. Furthermore, their proximity to the pollution source
facilitates the flow of information and reduces costs. However, municipalities have yet to
develop the technical and administrative capacity to control such discharges. The lack of
pretreatment of industrial discharges is an urgent problem, particularly for those municipalities
that have treatment plants in operation or under construction because the discharge of toxic
substances can seriously damage and even destroy the biological treatment processes. The
proposed project will support a program to assist municipalities to control industrial wastewater
discharges (para. 2.6). The program would include the establishment of a control and inspection
system and the use of economic instruments, such as pollution charges.
1.45 The Government has set ambitious national targets for increasing the volume of
wastewater treatment, mainly through the expected investment by the private sector in waste
water treatment plants. The target for 1994 is to double treatment volume to 70 m3/sec in just
two years. While this seems ambitious, it is noted that the treated volume doubled from 14.3
m3/sec in 1989 to 34.8 m3/sec in 1992. Furthermore, treatment capacity for 23.8 m3/sec is
already under construction, and 29.6 m3/sec of additional capacity is under bidding process for
build, operate and transfer (BOLI) schemes, by the private sector. The goal is to have 115
m3/sec or 75% of wastewater treated by 1996. (Annex E) During negotiations, the
Government agreed that CNA would submit to BANOBRAS a report, with the status of the
national targets to increase the volume of municipal wastewater treated, to be included In
the semiannual reports, as scheduled in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), and evaluated during the
review missions (para. 3.2 (d)).



- 16-
FEderal Financing Policies
1.46 A major sector constraint to the development of WUs is their dependence on grant
funding from federal and state sources. Th-is dependence has been decreasing. The proposed
project aims towards further reducing subsidies, principally in cities of more than 80,000
inhabitants. A program to reduce subsidies by about US$242 million equivalent (Annex E) is
planned for the years 1994-1997. To ensure this reduction, BANOBRAS will onlend under
specific terms already agreed with BANOBRAS (para. 2.32).
1.47 In light of the large investment requirements of the sector, the need for financing from
BANOBRAS will .ontinue to increase. Such assistance is on a loan basis and all loans are
subject to repayment. This will encourage the WUs to operate efficiently so the funds can be
recycled, thus reducing the drain on federal resources.
1.48 The Government's investment priority in the sector has changed by shifting the financing
of wastewater treatment plants to the private sector, as noted in para. 1.38. Increased private
sector participation is expected to improve sector efficiency, to help remove budget constraints,
and to accelerate the rate of coverage. BANOBRAS has adopted a policy where all commercial
and operational risks are borne by the private investor, while BANOBRAS guarantees timely
payment to the investor from the WU. In turn, BANOBRAS carries a very small risk as it has
guaranteed access to the tax revenues that the federal government transfers to the states. One
case is already in the process of being financed under this general scheme. In Puerto Vallara,
the International Finance Corporation has negotiated a loan of about US$8 million and eauity
investment for about US$4 million. The IFC proposal has been approved by its Board of
Directors. Furthermore, IFC has done a preliminary evaluation of the possibility of parally
fnancing the plant in Ciudad Juarez. No grants from federal or state sources are being
considered.
jnvestment Planning and Analysis
1.49 It is necessary to continue strengthening the planning capacity of the sector agencies,
particularly at the state and municipal levels. The shortcomings experienced in the ongoing
sector loan operation (para. 1.11) in the area of project preparation can be attributed to six main
factors: (a) poor quality in the preparation of master plans and feasibility studies; (b) the
preference of WUs for new works over rehabilitation; (c) the lack of adequate engineering
analysis to determine the optimum capacity of existing and planned infrastructure; (d) poor
choice of technology; (e) the premature construction of works; and (f) lack of cost effective and
least cost solutions. Under the proposed project, the elimination of indiscriminatory grants and
the establishment of a more rational and specific grant system (para. 2.16) targeted to poor
municipalities, will help provide the incentive to improve investment planning and analysis.
Technical assistance to the WUs and to CNA will be provided under the project to address the
shortcomings outlined.



- 17 -
Tariffs aMd Commercial Practices
1.50 The lack of sound cost recovery policies partly accounts for the poor financial
performance of most WUs. Tariff policies that have been applied so far vary widely but in
general fail to recover costs and discourage the wasteful use of water. For most WUs, tariffs
only allow for recovery of operational and maintenance costs.  During negotiations,
BANOBRAS agreed that all WUs Master Plans would follow CNA guidelines accepted by
the Bank for the preparation of Master Plans (Annex K), including a tariff structure based
on the Guidelines for the preparation of tariffs already approved by the Bank as part of
Loan 3271-ME (par 3.1 (b)). The objectives are to: (a) have annual tariff increases reaching
80% of long term marginal cost within the time specified in the Master Plans; (b) have a tariff
structure that will penalize waste and provide a safety net for the very low users of water
(Maximum 20 cubic meter per month), which represent a small percentage of usage and cover
the people with lower income; and (c) make provisions for separate charges covering the
operation and maintenance cost of sewerage services and of wastewater treatment plants.
1.51 The WUs have been more self-sufficient in recent years due to the decision by the
Government to change its policy towards lower dependency on subsidies, improved efficiency
in collections of user charges, and increased emphasis on reducing unaccounted-for water
MUFW). Subsidies to the sector have decreased. Collection in 1993 has increased 35% in
constant dollars and the efficiency, (collections as a percentage of total billings), has also
improved by an average of 31% compared with 1990.
1.52 Average rates for domestic consumers have increased in constant dollars from about
US$0.41 per cubic meter in 1990 to US$0.52 in the first semester of 1993. The estimated
average incremental cost of service is about US$1.00 per cubic meter. However, more than
50% of municipal WUs do not charge explicitly for sewerage services.
1.53 Low tariffs encourage excessive consumption and waste of resources which, coupled with
the lack of incentives for conservation, create a demand for more services at the expense of
increased coverage. As a result, investment funds are not generated and those without services,
the poorest, suffer as they pay significantly higher prices to private water vendors. In most
WUs, water services are still not metered (estimated to be the case in about 56% of all
connections in all WUs in the country). The project will support the establishment of
commercial departnents with adequate billing and collection practices, and if necessary the
implementation of a cadastre of users. In addition, full metering will be encouraged and
supported.



- 18 -
IL THE PROJECT
A. Project Orign
2.1   The proposed project supports the Govement's plans oudined in the Natonal Water and
Sanitation Program, introduced by the President of Mexico in May 1990, to improve the
efficiency and finances of instittiions in the water supply and sation sectr, to reduce tiheir
dependence on subsidies, and to acceleate the decen ion program that Mexico has initiated
in all sectors. This project is a follow-up project to the ongoing sewor project which will be
completed during fiscal year 1994, two years ahead of schedule.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2   The proposed opeaon is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Mexico to be presented to the Board with the Northern Border Environment Project (Report
No. 6287-ME) on June 9, 1994 in paralll with this project. The stategy, aims at assisting
Mexico to keep its economic restrucuring process on tack, while supporting programs that
contibute to poverty reduction, improved environmental management and long-term sustainable
economic growth and development, particularly through invstments in human resources,
infrastructure and naual resource management. The strategy also aims to push the reform
process downward to the subnational (state and municipal) leve and support the furter
devolution of expenditure and revenue responsilites to these local govenments. Worldng
within this sttegy, the proposed project is specifically aimed at deveoping capity to supply
water and sanitation sevices, addsing enviromental issues, at the local levl, increasng
services to the poor and protecfting the country's scarce water resources. By providing technical
assistance for the formulation of a well-defined regulatory framework, the proposed project also
aims to promote a larger private sector involvement in the supply of water and sanitation
services. The Bank's past involvement in the water sector, puts it in a unique position to
strongly support the ongoing process of decentalized water utilities, focusing on better
management practice, improved water and sanitation seice delivery and greater attention to
water pollution problems.
C. Project Objectives
2.3   The proposed project woud continue to sport the dcentlizon process initiated
under the ongoing water supply and sanitation project, with emphasis on sustainability of
investments and on addressing environmental concems. The objectives of the proposed project
are to: (a) improve the quality and expand te coverage of water and sanitation seices;
(b) strengthen the institutional capacity of CNA to comply with its legal mandate to assist the
local water utilities (WUs) to improve their management, operation and planning capability, and
to train their personnel to prperly manage and maintain their systems; (c) reduce subsidies to
the sector by promoting the development of adequately sized WUs that are opeationally and
financially autonomous; (d) support BANOBRAS' efforts to enhance its capacity to appaise and
supervise subprojects at its Mexico City headquarters and at its state offices; (e) encourage
private sector participaton by establishing the appiat legal and technical emvironment to
attract private investment; (f) improve the management of water resources and the environment
by supporting water quality progrms; and (g) stegthen the sector's capacity to enforce
environmental reguations and catry out ElAs



- 19 -
D. Project Description
2.4   The proposed loan would finance a part of the Federal Goverrmen's water supply and
sanitaton investment program.   The project would have  hfree ma   components:
(a) strengthening of the major federal institutions that play a key role in the managempent of
water resources; (b) suppordng the investment/operational plans of WUs; and (c) developing the
planning and environmental areas of the WUs to strengthen them as viable and sustainable
insdtutions.
2.5   The comonent for the institutional development of federal agencies (US$33.7 mimon)
would strengthen the capabilities of CNA, IMTA and BANOBRAS to provide assistance to the
WUs, to evaluate and supervise the implementation of subprojects, to manage water resources
and to develop cost-effective policies to prevent water pollution. The details are as follows:
2.6   The CNA subcomncn (US$23.0 million) would finance consultants and other services
to: (a) stengthen the institution by assisting with the implementation of the General Information
System for the Water and Sanitation Sector (SIAPA), developed by CNA as part of the ongoing
loan; (b) to study the best alternative for the installation of an acceptable regulatory framework
to encourage private sector participation in the sector; (c) improve CNA's capacity, at its
Mexico City offices as well as at its regional and state offices, to assist the WUs in: (i)
preparing master plans; (ii) implementing their institutional development programs; (iii) raising
the quality and efficiency of their operations by publishing technical standards and operational
manuals; and (iv) tning personnel in coleon of data to be fed into the SLA    to increase
the reliability of this information system; and (d) support the implementation of the nadonal
water quality impovement program (NPWQI) by: (i) imprving the water quality monitonng
and assessment system; (ii) continuing the development and implementation of water discharge
standards and discharge penrits; (fii) training staff in water quality monitoring and assessment,
inspection and enforcement of water standards and environmental impact assessments; (iv)
developing and implementing an initiative to certify water quality laboratoes; (v) carrying out
special studies to improve water quality management; (vi) tWaining to carry out preteatment
Programs for industrial wastewater; and (vii) providing assistance to the WUs in the preparation
Of guidelines for the subcontracting of services by the private sector. Annex L contains a cost
breakdown of the principal items of this subcomponent.
2.7   The IMA sbmpoen (US$7.2 million) would finance consultants, works and
equipment to: (a) strengthen this insdtution by: (i) expanding its research laboratory; (ii)
rehbilitatng the existing training centers; (iii) building pilot wastew  treatment plants at three
of the centers for hands-on training of opeators; and (iv) trining its staff on water quality
aspects; and to (b) improve IMTA's capacity to assist the WUs in: (ti) technical training of their
operations personnel; (ii) developing a program for operators certification; (iii) preparing
training packages; (iv) organizing technical exchanges with domestic and foreign water utilites
and training oWranizations; and (v) developing the curricula for a postgraduate program on water
utilities' management to be established by the Autonomous University of Mexico. More detailed
information is provided in Annexes L and R.
2.8 The BANOBRAS subcompont (US$3.5 mMion) would finance consultants and
equipment to strengthen BANOBRAS' capacity to evaluate and monitor implementaton of
projects in the water supply and sanitation sector. The areas to be strengthened include:
(a) monitoring project implementation at its Mexico City and state offilces; (b) establishment of



- 20 -
the new Executive Coordinting Unit (ECU) (para 2.29); (c) preparation of guidelines for the
.economic and financial evaluation of projects and training of ECU personnel; and (d) designing
and implementing an M1S to ensure the availability of timely and accurate data on project costs
and progress of implementation. Annex L contains a cost breakdown of the pnncipal items of
this subcomponent.
2.9   The Investmnent S?ort to Lga Water Utilities componen(US$722.8 mllion) would
finance the subprojects of eligible WUs (para 2.11). Subloans to eligible WUs could also be
used to assist public companies to subcontract services to the private sector by financing start
up costs. A subproject, which is the set of actions to be financed wi the proceedings of a
subloan to a WU, would be based upon the recommended acdons contained in a master plan
prepared for the WU following CNA's guidelines (Annex K), which are satisfactory to the Bant
A master plan covers a seven to ten year planning period and includes detailed information on:
the existing conditions of the WU; an evaluation of present and future infrastructure; financial
and institutional needs; and a recommended plan to address those needs. The recommendations
for infstructure investments would be based on the least expensive economically feasible
alternative and would address any environmental (Annex G) requirements. Following the
priorities established in the master plan, a detailed annual program will be established and
recorded in a Memorandum of Understanding (MU) to be executed by the WU, and reviewed
and submitted to the Bank by BANOBRAS (Annex N). A MU is a document consisting of an
xecuative summary of its corresponding master plan and annex, prepared annually, which
specifies the actions (mstitutional strengthening and/or infrastructure investments) to be
undertaken during a twelve month period, including: schedule for the execution of these actions,
estimated costs, financial mix (% of the funds coming from credit, federal/state grants and/or
ICG) and the targets to be reached by the WU monitoring indicators as a result of the
implementation of the actions. MUs will be presented for each subproject. Submission of the
MU with its annex for the first year will be one of the conditions for approval by BANOBRAS
of the subprect and its corresonding subloan to the WU (para 2.28). Subloans could range
in cost from a few thousand dolLars for minor improvements to existing facilities to, for
example, thirty million in the case of financing new infrastructure, such as large wastewater
tratment facilities. The types of projects expected to be financed include: (a) expansion and
rehabilitation of water supply and distribution systems, such as: (i) surface water intakes; (ii)
raw water pump stations; (mii) wells; (iv) storage tas; (v) transmission mains; (vi) filtration
plants; (vii) disinfection facilities; (viii) booster pump stations; and (ix) distribution networks;
and (b) exansion and rehabilitation of wastewater collection and treatment facilities such as: (i)
lateals; (ii) trunk sewers, (iii) pump stations, (iv) primary, secondary or advanced wastewater
treatment plants; and (v) discharge outfaills (Annex S). Under the subloan, financing would also
be provided for engineering, preparing detailed design documents and construction supervsion.
The institutional strengthening (Consolidaci6n) actions would concentrate on such things as: (a)
the commercial and financial areas, including macro and micro metering; (b) reducing
unaccounted for water, (c) increasing the efficiency of electromechanical equipment; (d)
improvements to increase pressure in the distribution systems; and (e) training of staff in the
areas of management, operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems.
2.10 Under the Institutional Suport for the WUs component (US$13.5 million), technical
assistance would be provided to WUs that do not yet comply with the eligibility criteria and,
therefore, cannot be included within the investment support to WUs component (pan 2.13).
Technical assistance under this component would be onented to helping the WUs become
eligible and hence would only cover (a) the prepaation of master plans; (b) the preparation of



- 21 -
environmental impact assessments; and (c) the implementation of certain institutional
development actions (Consolidaci6n), with particular emphasis on commercial and financial
areas, including tariffs, water metering and reduction of unaccounted-for-water losses. Most of
the funds for this component would be provided as grants (Table 2.2). This component would
support three of the main objectives of the project: to improve the planning capacity of the
WUs, to strengthen their compliance with environmental regulations, and to support their
institutional development as autonomous organizations.
E. WU Eligibility Criteria and Subloan Conditionality
2.11 To become eligible for Bank financing under the investment support to local WUs
component of the project, a WU must comply with the following agreed upon criteria:
(a)   be organized as a financially autonomous water and sewerage agency (para. 1.2);
(b)   have a Master Plan approved by CNA and prepared following CNA's guidelines
(Annex K), which are satisfactory to the Bank. Until December 31, 1994 a
feasibility study or other comprehensive planning document approved by CNA
and satisfactory to the Bank, could be substituted for a master plan; and
(c)   adopt tariffs which at least cover operating and maintenance costs (excluding
depreciation) and debt service.
2.12 If a WU complies with the above eligibility criteria, and if the following subloan
conditions are met, the WUs will be able to obtain financing for a subproject:
(a)   commitment of the subborrower to carry out the subproject actions based on
agreed annual annexes to the MUs, which contain the actions recommended in its
corresponding master plan for the current year. The annexes to the MUs specify
the proposed infrastructure investments and institutional strengthening actions to
be carried out during a twelve month period and the targets for the operational
and financial performance indicators to be achieved during each year (Annex N);
(b)   recording of the first MU (para. 2.32);
(c)   commitment to increase water and sewerage rates in accordance with projected
tariff requirements in the Master Plan to cover the recommended investment
program (para. 1.50);
(d)   agreement that the mix of credits, grants and ICG indicated on Tables 2.2 and 2.4
will be applicable for any subproject (para. 2.20); and
(e)   the proposed subproject must present a minimum economic rate of return of 12%
for water supply and for sewage facilities (para. 2.57).



- 22 -
2.13  In order to help in the process of decention and financial autonomy of the WUs,
if a WU were unable to meet the above eligibility criteria (para 2.11), it would still be eligible,
based on a preiminary MU, to receive a subloan to finance technical assistance (consolidaci6n)
in order to eventually meet the eligibility criteria. In this case, aggregate disbursements would
be limited to US$5 million for each municipality with population larger than 80,OW0 and US$1
million each for municipalities with less than 80,000 inhabitants.
F. Project Cost
2.14 The total project cost is estimated at US$770 million equivalent, including duties and
taxes. The cost of the component for institutional developirc-nt of federal agencies is estimated
at US$33.7 million or about 4.4% of the total project cost. The cost of the component for
investment support to WUs is estimated at US$722.8 million or about 93.9% of the total project
cost. The cost of the component for insdtutional support to the WUs is estimated at US$13.5
million or about 1.7% of the total project cost. A summary of estimated project costs is
presented in Table 2.1. A detailed breakdown of the insdtutional strengthening and technical
assistance subcomponents is presented in Annex L.
S. The cities of Monterrey, GuadalWaja and Mexico, D.P. are excluded f*om the proposed
10al



- 23 -
TABLE 2.1
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE BY COMPONENT
(US$ Million)
Component                                 Local   Foreign  Subtot.*   % of
Total
1. Strengthening Sectoral Federal Institutions
CNA                                    4.5      16.4      20.9      2.7
Institutional Strengthening          0.9        1.5       2.4     0.3
Technical Assistance to WUs           0.9       5.0       5.8     0.8
Water Quality Program                 2.7       9.9      12.7     1.6
IMTA                                   0.5       6.0       6.6      0.9
Institutional Strengthening          0.3       1.5       1.9      0.2
Technical Assistance to WUs           0.2       4.5      4.7      0.6
BANOBRAS                                1.9       1.2      31       0.4
Institutional Strengthening          1.9        1.2      3.1      0.4
Subtotal I *                              7.0      23.6     30.6      4.0
II. Investment Support to Local Water Utilities
Water Supply & Sewerage Works      313.0    301.1    614.1    79.8
Studies and Design                  21.9      21.1      43.0      5.6
Subtotal 11 *                          334.9    322.2    657.1    85.3
.Il. Institutional Support for Water Utilities
Preparation of MPs & ElAs            2.1       2.7        4.8     0.6
Help w/ CONSOUDACION"                6.0        1.5      7.5      1.0
Subtotal III                              8.1      4.2      12.3      1.6
Subtotal Project Cost                    350.0    350.0    700.0    90.9
Taxes                                      70.0                70.0     9.1
Total Project Cost                       420.0    350.0    770.0   100.0
Note: Subtotal amuntu nmy not add exacty due to rouning.
TA13LE2-1 .XLS
6116194



- 24 -
G. Project Yznancing
2.15 The Bank loan would finance about 45% of total project cost during the years 1994-1997.
The remainig 55% would be fimded through federal and state grants and internal cash
geneaon (ICG) of WUs (Table 2.5). BANOBRAS would onlend proceeds in Mexican-peso-
denominated subloans to WUs at variable interest rates not lower than the Government Treasury
bill rates (CETES) or the Mexican banking system's average cost of funds (CPP), whichever is
higher, plus 2 percentage points, with a tenn of 15 years including a grace period of up to 3
years.
2.16  For WUs located in municipalities with populaton of less than 80,000 inhabitants, fedeal
and state grant resources would be mixed with loan funds based on a poverty index developed
and approved by the Govemment (Table 2.2)
Table 2.2
Cities With Less Than 80,000 Population
Mi of Credit, Grants and Internal Cash Generation
POVERTY =  EX       CREDr      I    GRANS          INTERAL C-ASH
(PI)                                         GENERATION
=                       ;(MAX)        (AVG)
-|___________ For Water Supply and Sewrage nfatrucr
HIGH             0%               80%             20%
MEDIUM    |       25%              60%              15%
LOW             45%              40%              15%
For Wastewater Treatment Iifiasuucr_
HWGH             0%               90%             10%
MEDIUM            10%              80%              10%
LOW              20%             70%              10%
For Technical Assistace
HIGH             0%              100%              0%
MEDIUM            20%              80%              0%
LOW             30%              70%              0%
* It  dasvd S liis may inud, i dm to cab, goods md wob a Ubtftd by o WU$f thte =Au etis  mbc labzutec
-  o saed year.



- 25 -
2.17 The proportions of federal and state grant funds, are defined in the Annex of fte NMawW
Umco de Operacdones" of the ?Pwgrama Nacional de Solidandad" and its amendments dated
January 1993, applicable for the year 1994. This is summarized in Table 2.3
Table 2.3
Cost Sharing of Grants between State and Federal Governments
Based upon the Povert Index of Cities with less than 80,000 people
POVERTY            %         % STATE    TOTAL %
INDEX        FEDERAL       _
HIGH            66%          34.0%          100
MEDIUTI          61.5%        38.5%           100
LOW            50%           50%           100
2.18 For cities with populations of more than 80,000 inhabitants, and the tourist cities of
cancdn, Los Cabos, Ma, Pto. Vallarta, Acapulco, Ixapa-Z:ihuaaneo, Huatulco, Loreto,
Cozumel and Manzanillo, the financial niix is summarized in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4
Cities Above 80,000 Population
Mix of credit, Grants and Internal Cash Generation
CONCEPT                        CREDIT  GRANTS   INT. CASH
GENERATiON
______________________         (MAX)       (AVG)
Infiastuctur for Water Supply   100%       0%         0%
Sanitay Sm                       0%       100%        0%
Wastewater T_atment Facilities  100%       0%         0%
Tehnical Asustance               0%       100%        0%
2.19 As can be seen from Table 2.4 the grant proportion in financing of infastructure for
cities above 80,000 is zero, with the eVeption of sanitary sewers and TA. This is because in
the laer cities, where wastwater treatment cpacity is limited, the Government is actively
promoting pivate sectr participaion and to do this, sanitary sewers are needed.
2.20 During negotiations, BANOBRAS agreed that the mix of credits, grants and ICG
Iiated on Tables 2.2 and 2.4 would be applicable for any subproject (psra. 3.1 (c)).



-26-
2.21 Federal and state grants to the different municipalites in Mexico are allocated annually.
The specific amounts are established in a document called Annual Opeaional Plan (POA) which
is authorized at the beginmng of the calendar year. A report showing theauthorized allocations
would be submitted by BANOBRAS according to the project reporting schedule (pae. 2.35).
2.22 The proceeds of the Bank loan would be tansferred by BANOBRAS to the Guatantot
in accordance with the regulations ("Nomnadvidad) applicable in Mexico to Bank loans unde
which the Guarantor would lend a portion of the pceeds back to BANOBRAS in pesos for
onlending by BANOBRAS to the WUs. As a condition of effectiveness, the Guarantor and
BANOBRAS shall provide to the Bank an executed contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
specffying these Guarantor/BANOBRAS taers and onlending procedures (pam. 3.3 (a)).
2.23  Any departure from the present fnncial mix, shown in Tables 2.2 and 2.4, will be
discussed and agreed with the Bank (para. 3.2 (f)).
2.24 The project financing plan is shown in Table 2.5. The nix of federal, state and WUs'
ICG is indicative. It is based on the assumption that 70% of the funds going to WUs will
finance subprojects in cities with population above 80,000 and 60% of the subprojects financed
would be for improvements to sewerage systems. Assurances were received from the
Government that the amount of US$ 94 million equivalent required as counterpart funds
for the 1994 is included in the approved budget for FY 1994 (pan. 3.2 (e)). For futue
FYs, the budget allocation for the yewar wil be reviewed during the review meetg to be
held on or about November 1st. each year (para. 2.36).
Table 2.5
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Sources of Funds                  Local   Foreign    Total    % of T
IBRD                                        350       350        45
Federal Grant                      185                185        24
State Grant                        120                120        16
lWUs' Iteral Cash Generation       115                115        15
Total Project                      420      350       770       100



- 27-
H. Project dmplementation
2.25 The main institutions participating in the implementation of this project are:
BANOBRAS, CNA, (assisted by 1ITA), the WUs, state govemments and SEDESOL. The
specific implementation functions of these institutions are summarized in Annex B.
2.26 Instttional Responsibilities. IThe Borrower and executing agency for the proposed
project would be BANOBRAS, which will be responsible for overall project execution. CNA,
as the government agency responsible for the water sector, will serve as the technical agent.
The WUs will be the main executors of the subprojects approved for financing under the
proposed loan. The state governments will allocate the grants to the selected subprojects. CNA
will be responsible for ensuring that a judgment (dictamen) on the preliminary ElAs prepared
for subprojects under consideration (Annex G) is issued and that additional actions, as required
in connection with the subprojects (paras. 1.14 to 1.15), are aken.
2.27  BANOBRAS' speific responsibilities include: (a) verifying compliance with condiions
of eligibility (paa 2.11), in particular the existence of an updated Master Plan prepared
according to CNA's guidelines (Annex K); (b) assisting the WUs in the selection of subprojects
to be included in the annual budget request, and in the ececution of the respective MUs;
(c) approving subloans to the WUs through its state delegations or its Mexico City offices (for
projects over US$200,000); (d) supervising project execution by each WU; (e) participating in
eacb state water supply and sanitation subcommittee (SWSS); and (i) preparing and sending to
the Bank semi-annual reports on the execution of the project (para. 2.35).
2.28 BANOBRAS would also be responsible for ensuring that WUs categorized as eligible to
receive inestment support as well as all subloans remain in compliance with the agreed criteria
during the duration of the project. During negotiaions, BANOBRAS agreed that all subloans
for an amount equivalent to US$10 miMon or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review, and that when presenting a subloan for approval, BANOBRAS would present to
the Bank a copy of the proposed terms and conditions of the subloan including the
amortzation schedule. Al other subloans would be subject to selective ex-post review
(para. 3.1 (d)).
2.29 In April 1993, BANOBRAS was reorgnized as shown in the organization chart presented
in Annex 0. The new organizon provides for more autonomy for the directors in charge of
financing, engineering, technical assistance and planning. The TA in this project would
strengthen BANOBRAS' capacity in three areas: (1) decentralition to the state level; (u) the
caion of the ECU (Annex Q), with a task manager who will coordinate the supervison of all
water and sanitation projects, using the resources of BANOBRAS' edsting division (Financing
of Potable Water and Sewerage Projects); and (iii) the creation of a unit to evaluate projects and
other special studies.
2.30  CNA, with its present o z.,iation (Annex A), has the capacity to serve as technical
agent. Specific responsibilities include: (a) applying, modifying, and monitoring sector-
development policies; (b) preparing technical standards; (c) upon the request of implementing
agencies, assisting in project prepation, construction, and works supervision (project
constucdon is the sole responsibility of the implementing agencies. CNA is responsible only for



- 28 -
verifying that proposed works are an integral part of a water and sanitation plan); (d) providing
technical assistance to WUs in their institutional development programs; (e) participating in each
SWSS as technical secretariat; (i) developing and implementing, through its technological
institute IMTA and in coordination with the Association of Water Utilities (EAS), the National
Training Program (Annex R); (g) monitoring and publishing the annual performance indicators
of the WUs and the whole sector; (h) preparing annual action plans to improve the performance
of the WUs; and (i) implementing a pollution prevention and control program.
2.31 As detailed in Annex B, BANOBRAS and CNA have delegated to their state
representatives a substantial responsibility formerly exercised by their central office in Mexico
City. These state representatives, which are responsible for representing their respective
institutions in the SWSSs (pam. 1.4), are ultimately responsible for determining the POA (para.
2.21), which itemizes the budgetary allocations and the financial niix for all subprojects. The
weakness of the state representatives has been a problem. The proposed project addresses this
issue by financing the taining and technical assistance required by the state representatives of
BANOBRAS and CNA (paras. 2.6 and 2.8)
2.32 Implementation Arrangements. To obtain access to credit, a WU would submit a
subproject for funding to BANOBRAS (para. 2.31). Subprojects financed under the investment
support component would be based upon the recommendations contained in the respective master
plan, prepared by the WUs following CNA's guidelines (Annex K). A master plan covers a
seven to ten year planning period and includes detailed infmation on: existing conditions at the
WU; an evaluation of present and envisioned infrastruture; financial and institutional needs; and
a recommended action plan to address those needs. The recommendations for infrastructure
improvements and/or extensions would be based on economic and financial analyses and will
comply with the environmental requirements. Following the priorities established in the master
plan, detailed annual programs will be established, agreed upon and recorded in MUs, by the
WU and BANOBRAS (Annex N). An MU will specify the actions (TA and investments) to be
undertaken dunng the year, a schedule for their execution, the associated costs, and the targets
to be reached. Priority will be given to projects that are already in execution. Presentation of
the Master Plan and MUs will be required for all subprojects financed under the investment
support component. The Master Plan and first MU will form the basis for approval by
BANOBRAS of each subproject and its conresponding subloan to the WU (para. 2.12 (b)).
Subprojects financed under the institutional support for the WUs component would be based
upon a preliminary MU, as defined in pam. 2.13.
2.33  Subproject preparation and pipeline. As part of the ongoing project, a significant effort
was made to institute the preparation of master plans at the WU level. A total of 45 WUs have
completed their master plans and hence their priority projects have been already identified
(Annex S). These identified projects require an investment in excess of US$1.3 billion over the
next three years. Of this total, US$207 million corepond to institutional strengthening,
US$341 million to water supply infrastructure, US$388 million to sewer ifscture and
US$377 million to wastewater treatment facilities. Most of the infrastructure facilities have their
detailed design documents completed and construction can begin as soon as funds become
available. These expenditures would constitute the core of the first year's program to be
financed under the proposed project. During negotiations, BANOBRAS agreed that the WUs
would be responsible for sele   contracting   d dcting the consultants to prepare
subprojects, and that CNA will provide assitnce to WUs unable to do the selection and
contracting, only upon request from these WUs. (para. 3.1 (e)).



- 29 -
2.34 During negotiations, the Government agreed that CNA would be responsible for
reviewing and approving master plans (pars 32 (g)). The Bank would selectively review
MPs, including all the ones for subprojects to be financed during the first year and for any
subproject in excess of US$5 mnlion. The Government agreed that CNA would be
responsible for reviewing and approving design and construction documents to guarantee
that subprojects are executed according to the offical norms and folowmig the priorities
established in the corresponding master plan (para 3.2 (h)).
I. Supervision and Reporting
2.35  Project Suprvision and Reportng. Supervision requirements are expected to be high
throughout the implementation period. It is expected that three supervision missions per year,
staffed by a sanitary engineer, a  nacial analyst, and an environmental engineer with a
duration of two and one half weeks per mission, will be required to supervise the proposed
project throughout its entire implementation period (1994-1997); in addition, a trining specialist,
an MIS expert, and an appropriate technology specialist should accompany the supervision
missions as necessary. The Bank-financed Northern Border Environment Project, being
processed in pallel to this project, establishes that its water and sanitation component will be
supervised simultaneously; therefore, some additional supervision time will be required. The
Bank would selectively review in detail a number of subprojects. Bank missions should plan to
visit at least a number of participants whose investments during the year or cumulative would
amount to 80% of total project cost at the time of the mission. Other beneficiaries will be visited
as time and resources will permit. BANOBRAS agreed to prepare semi-annual reports to be
submtted to the Bank by September 30 for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31
for the semester ending December 31. These reports will contain the information shown
in Table 2.6 (Part 1 of 2). The reports wil be evaluated within the parameters and the
schedule established in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2). The timing and agendas of the sei-annual
review were confimed by BANOBRAS (pan. 3.1 (0).
2.36 Semiannual Reviews. The Bank and the Government would conduct formal joint
semiannual reviews on or about June 1 and Noveember 1 of each year. During these reviews,
the Bank would evaluate the semiannual reports submitted by BANOBRAS according to the
reporting schedule on Table 2.6. The agenda for the November semi-annual review, would
include, in addition to evaluating the reports submitted to the Bank by BANOBRAS, an
assessment of the adequacy of proposed federal and state budget allocations and the sector and
project targets established for the monitoring indicators (Annex E). Based on these reviews,
decisions would be taken, adjustments made, and action plans prepared for implementation
dunng the subsequent year. A third annual mission would be scheduled to begin on or about
March 1 of each year. Duing this mission, the Bank would review the MUs and their
corresponding annexes (Annex N). Field inspections to selected cities would also be made
during the missions.
2.37 Mid-term Review. The semi-annual review scheduled for June 1996 will constitute a
mid-term review, and pro'ide an opportunity for a more comprehensive review of the
achievements of the project to that date, and of the pros'ects for its successful completion. For
this mid-term review, the agenda will include the following elements, in addition to the agenda
items for the semi-annual reviews: (i) a review of compliance with the on-lending conditions;
(ii) an evaluation of the availability of funds for the remainder of the project; and (iii) proposals



- 30-
for restructuring or reorientadon of the project in light of the reviews and assessments of the
issues discussed during the review.
2.38 During negotiations, BANOBRAS agreed to: (a) on-lend in full compliance with the
agreed WU eligibility criteria (para. 2.11) and subloan conditionality (para. 2.12).
BANOBRAS agreed that the above conditlonalities would not be changed without the
Bak's prior approval (para 3.1 (g)); and that (b) it would take all required actions,
Including hiring consultan  if necessarwy, to establish the MIS needed to cay out a
satisfactor supervision of the project (para. 3.1 (h)). As a condition of effectiveness
BANOBRAS should have: (a) the MIS operational (this means to have all the hardware
and software iostalled and the system able to perform a successful dry run of an Annex to
a Memorandum of Understanding); and (b) the ECU legally established (pan. 3.3 (b)).
2.39 As noted in pam. 2.6, CNA has developed and is implementing SIAPA, which would
record the performance of all agencies providing water supply and sanitation semces. The
indicators to be monitored, which would be included in the annexes to the MUs, would relate
to service coverage and quality, efficiency, finanial perfonnance, tariff levels and strucure,
saaries, training programs, and turnover of management positions (Annex N). During
notiations, the Government agreed that CNA would monitor the status of the project and
sector as a whole, based upon the Individual monitoring indicators of the WUs contained
in the annexes to the MUs (Annex N) (para. 3.2 (i)). This monitoring would provide a
sound basis to evaluate ongoing performance of the sector. The Government agreed that
Information on the individual WUs and sector monitoring indicators wliM be trnsferred by
CNA to BANOBRAS seinnually, according to the schedule in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), so
that BANOBRAS can feed this information into the MIS and submit it to the Bank in the
seminnual progress reports (para. 3.2 (j)).
2.40 IMTA and CNA have proposed a National Training Progrm to be implemented during
1994-1997 (Annex R). CNA would be responsible for monitoring the program as well as
proposing revisions to be agreed by the Bank, when it believes they are necessary. During
negotiations, the Govemment agreed that DITA through CNA would submit to
BANOBRAS smiannually, according to the schedule in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), a report
including the following information: (a) definition of sector training priorities for the
following year; (b) percenge of the present year's trining program executed; (c) detais
of the following year's training program, which wM be determined according to the WUs'
needs; and (d) information concerning investment needs for trining facilities and
equipment (para. 3.2 (k)). Also, agreement was reached on the plan of action for the
training program for the FY 1994. Pln for the subsequent years would be presented to
and agreed with the Bank during the semiannual reviews, as indicated in Table 2.6. (para.
3.2 (1)).
2.41 CNA would assist the WUs in the organization and implementation of their insttutional
devlopment programs, especially in the areas of Master Plans and management skills. To
enable CNA to prvide assistance to WrUs, external consultant support would be provided, as
necessary. During negotiations, the Government agreed that CNA would submit to
BANOBRAS semannualty, according to the schedule in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), a report
on the TA provided during the year and its cost, and a plan of action and projected cost
for the implementation of the TA to CNA and the WUs (consofidacidn) for the following
year (pa. 3.2 (m)).



- 31 -
Table 2.6
Summary of Prjec Report   (art I of 2)
Responsible      Type of Report: Contents                                                          Submit to: (action     Due date(s)
Insktituon                                                                                         expoed)
BANOBRAS         1. Semiannual Progress Reports:                                                   World Bank             Sept. 30
(a) Instituional Development of BANOBRAS:                                                             March 31
accomplishhments: current and cumulativo
comparison with projoctions and goal
assessment of issues and problems arising fromn is execution
in case of problems, adjustnt proposed to correct themn
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(b) Institutional Development of CNA:
revew and submit report prepared by CNA (see 5(a) below)
(e) Institutional Dev lopmet of IMTA:
review and submk rport prepared by CNA (see SO bclow)
(d) Investment support to WUs:
current MUs with updated monitoring indicators
progress of actions contemplated in MUs
(e) Indiionat support to WUs:
review and submit report prepared by CNA (see 5(c) below)
(I) Sector bsues:
annual update of sector investment plan (Sept. 30 repott only)
revie and submit report prepared by CNA (see 5(d) below)
review and submit repot prepared by CNA (seo 5(c) beow)
(g) Financi I.lfomation:
current year's and cumulative sctor investne  (including private sector)
current year's and cumulative project investment plan
current status of loan disburseeft
(h) Reiew and submit report prepared by CNA (see S(1) below) (March 31. only)
(i) Review and submit report prepared by IMTA on cetification Program (see 5(g) below)
(j) Review and submit report prepared by CNA on status of wastcater treatmeat (5(h))
2. List of eligible projects submitted by the WUs to the SWSS                     World Bank             Oct. 31
3. Approved federa and state allocations (POA) for eligible projects              World Bank             Apr. 15
4. MUs preaed for the aNo  projects (Al infonnatl  completed)                     World Bank             Feb. 2,:



- 32 -
Tabb 2.6
Summary of Project Reporting (Part 2 of 2)
Responsible     | lqpofRepost: Contents                                                               Submit to: (action    | Due date(s)
Institution                                                                                           expected)              _
CNA               5. Semiannual reports to BANOBRAS                                                   BANOBRAS                Report has to be
(a) Institutional Development of CNA:                                                                    received by
accomplishments: current and c vmulative                                                              BANOBRAS on
comparison with projeetions and goals                                                                time for its
assessment of issues and problems arising from TA execution                                          review and
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them                                            inclusion in
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget                                                semiannual
(b) Institutional Development of IMTA:                                                                   report to be
accomplishments: curent and cumulative                                                                submitted to the
comparison with projections and goals                                                                 Bank. Date to
assessment of issucs and problems arising from TA execution                                           be agreed
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them                                             between CNA
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget                                                and BANOBRAS
(e) Report on status of WUs' Per;rmance:
list of WUs with approved MPs (Annex K)
list all WUs with their monitoring indicators (para. 2.38)
current year's and cumulative TA provided
comparison with goals
assessment of issues and problems
in ease of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(d) Report on IMTA's National Training Program:
current year's and eumulative program executd
assessment of issues and problems
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to corret them
definition of sector training priorities
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(e) Report on Sector Performance:
Monitoring indicators for MUs
comparison with goals
(M) Report on Status of River Basins (pam. 1.21)
(g) Report on Status of Certification Program
(O) Report on Status of Wastewater Treatment Program
assessment of issues and problems
in case of problems, adjudments proposed to correct them



- 33 -
2.42 Auditing. BANOBRAS will have its financial statements, special account and SOEs
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the March 1982
Bank document "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Prwects financed by the
World Bank." BANOBRAS, in turn, wil require each WJ to engage extemal auditors
satisfactory to BANOBRAS to audit their subproject accounts according to generally accepted
auditing standards. CNA and IMIA will keep project accounts, which would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts for each component and for each
investment subproject will be maintained separately. BANOBRAS will review the audit of the
components, subprojects and accounts and report to the Bank on the status and the remedial
actions taken. The reports of the subprojects will be furnished to BANOBRAS within six
months of the close of the fiscal year. A certified copy of the BANOBRAS' audit report as well
as the subproject audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than six montfhs after the
end of each fiscal year. The audit report will include a separate opinion by the auditor in
disbursements against certfied statement of expenditures. Statement of expenditures and other
audit-related material will be made available to Bank supervision missions. The Government
agreed that project accounts would be audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank, in
line with the Bank/Mexico Audit Agreement (November 1991) General Secretariat of the
Comptroller of the Federation (SECOGEF) (pan. 3.2 (n)).
J. Procurement
2.43 Procurement of goods (equipment and materials) and related incidental services, as well
as civil works (including incidental electro-mechanical works) would be done in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992 version).  To the extent feasible and
pwacticable, the procurement of goods would be done by grouping the various equipment/material
items in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 or more per paclage.
Similarly, civil works contracts would be grouped into bid packages to cost the equivalent of
US$10,000,000 or more per package. Such packaging would encourage wider participation of
compeive bidders and the project would benefit from   better pnces due to enhanced
competition and economies of scale. The selection and contcting of Consultng Services under
the three components of the Project (paras. 2.5 to 2.10) would be done in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981 version). All procurement activities
would be coordinated by BANOBRAS' staff who have the capability to handle adequately the
procurement actions required for this Project
2.44  Procurement of  goods to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 or more  per
contractpackage would be done following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
based on the new Standard Bidding Documents recently agreed upon with the Government of
Mexico, which will be used for Bank-financed projects by all Mexican implementing agencies
effective February 1, 1994. In procurement of goods through ICB-procedures, domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of prefrence of 15% or the amount of custom duties
and import taxes, whichever is smaller, in accordance with Bank's procedures.
Contracts/packages of goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 but more than US$150,000,
not exceeding an aggregated amount of US$49 million equivalent, would be procured following
locally adverdsed competitive bidding procedures (LCB), using Standard Bidding Documents for
Goods satisfactory to the Bank.



- 34 -
2.45 Procurement of civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or more
per contract/package, would be done following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works, with changes agreed with Bank to take into
account country and project situations. Procurement of civil works of less than US$10,000,000
per contract/package, but more than US$300,000 equivalent, not exceeding an aggregated
amount of US$497 million equivalent, would be done following locally advertised competitive
bidding procedures (B) using Standardized Bidding Documents for Works satisfactory to the
Bank. There is adequate experience in the Mexican construction industry for this type of works,
and contractors are fairly competent and competitive. In view of the fact that a large number
of construction jobs would be scattered all over the country and would bi procured by different
municipalities and other agencies, it is unlikely that foreign bidders would be interested to
participate in bidding for contracts smaller than US$10.0 million. Nevertheless, foreign bidders
would be permitted to participate in LCB-bidding actions without any restrictions.
2.46 Procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$150,000 and works with an
estimated cost less than US$300,000 would be done by local shopping based on comparison of
price quotations received from at least three qualified bidders, up to aggregate amounts of
US$24.0 million and US$22.1 million for each category, respectively.
2.47 Consultants for: (a) institutional strengthening; (b) technical assistance; and (c) detailed
engineering of works would be selected and hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. The new Standard Contract for Consultants' Services (July 1993
version) would be used for any consulting services contract to be awarded under the project.
2.48 Review of Procurenent Decisions by the Bank. All contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$350,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more, would be subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance
with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of
consulting services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for consulting firms
or the equivalent of US$50,000 or more for individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior
review. All other procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review.
Under this arrangement, the Bank's prior review would cover about 50% of Bank's finaced
contracts, which is satisfactory in view of the positive expeince with BANOBRAS regarding
procurement during the ongoing project.
2.49  During negotiations, BANOBRAS agreed that the foUowing prcurement procedus
would be followed (para 3.1 (0)):
(a) bid packages or contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost more than
US$350,000 equivalent each would be procured following ICB procedures based
on the new Standard Bidding Documents agreed upon with the Government of
Mexico and dated December 8, 1993. In procurement of goods through ICB,
domestic manufaturers would be granted a margin of preference of 15% or the
amount of custom duties and import taxes, whichever is smaller, in accordance
with Barnks procedures;
(b) bid packages or contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than US$350,000 but more than US$150,000 up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$49,000,000 may be procured following locally adverdsed



- 35 -
compeiive bidding procedures (LCB), using Standard Bidding Documents
satisfctory to the Bank;
(c)   civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or more per
contract/pckage, would be procured following ICB procedures in accordance
wit the Banles Standard Bidding Documents for Works, with changes agreed
with Bank to take into account country and project situations.
(d) civil works of US$10,000,000 equivalent or less, but more than US$300,000
equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$497,000,00 equivalent would be
awarded following locally adverdsed competitive bidding procedures (LCB) and
foreign bidders would be given an equal opportunmity to compete. LCB
procurement will be done in accordance with Standard Bidding Documents for
Works satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)   Consultants for: (a) institutional strengthening; (b) technical assistance; and (c)
detailed engineeing of works would be selected and hired in accordance wnth the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants; prior review of the Bank would be
required for short lists, terms of reference (rOR), selection procedures, budget,
letter(s) of invitation and supplementary intbrmation, as well winning proposal
and respective Contat in the case of consulting services estimated to cost the
equivalet of US$100,000 or more for consulting firms, or the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more for individuals. The new Standard Contract for Consultants'
Services (Iuly 1993 version) would be used for any consulng services contract
to be awarded under the project;
(f)   Subloans based on other than a Master Plan shall not exceed, up to December 31,
1994, the aggregate of US$50,000,000 equivalent (para 2.11 (b)).
2.50 A breakdown of project costs and loan amount by procurement method is shown in
Table 2.7.



- 36 -
TABLE 2.7
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Category                                  IC8      LCB    Other          NBF c/    Total
Works
A. Civil Works                                75.8    496.9   22.1   a/                 594.8
(34.1)  (223.6)   (9.9)                   (267.7)
Goods
B. Equipment/Materials                        15.5    49.0    24.0   a/       2.8       91.3
(7.0)   (22.1)  (10.8)                    (39.8)
Services and Consultncy
C. Engineering services - Master Plans & ElAs                   5.3                      5.3
14.8)   b/               (4.8)
D. Subproject design & mconsolidacion* studies                 23.6           32.0      55.6
(21.2)  b/               (21.2)
E  Consulting training & technical assistance                  18.4           4.6       23.0
(16.5)  b/               (16.5)
Total Projt Cost                              91.3    545.9   93.4            39.5      770.0
(41.1)  (245.7)  163.3)                  (350.0)
Note: Flr,u hi parmth    we amona expeCd to be  aed by the Sa*
al Shopping from at least three suppliers (civil works and equipment/materials)
bI Proposals from short lists of consultants, according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
cl Not Bank financed
TL2-7.XLS
5/11s



- 37 -
K. Disbursements
2.51 The Bank will finance US$350 million equivalent which constitutes about 45% of the
total project cost of US$770 million equivalent. The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected
to be disbursed in accordance with the allocation by categories shown in Table 2.8 over a period
of four years, which is somewhat faster an the disbursement profile for water sector projects
in Latin America. The standard disbursement profile for infrastructure projects in Mexico (OPP
Note 8/93) is seven years, however, the cunrent ongoing Loan 3271-ME will be totally disbursed
in about ftree years. On the basis of this experience, it is estimated that the proposed loan will
be disbursed in about four years.
TABLE 2.8
ALLOCATION OF LOAN AMOUNT
Pecentage to be financed and Project Component by Disbursement Category
Project                     Expenitres
Componen      Altocation of      to be
Disb rsemen              No. in the    Loan Amount      fianced
Description             General Cost   (US$ Milon)        (%)
Tableal                          bi
1 Equipment, materials, and civil works,   11            271.0            50
for the Investment Support to Local
Wter Utlities Component
2  Consultant services for preparing    If and IlIl      22.8            100
design documents and for providing TA
an preparing MPs to WVs
3  Equipment and materials for              I             5.9             80
Insitutional Strengthening of Federal
Insttons Component
4  Civil Works for the Instjitional         1             0.4             80
Strengthening of Federal Instiutions
Component
5  Consultant Services for the Institutional  I           15.1            100
Strengthening of Federal Institutions
Component
6  Unallocated                                            35.0
Total fr All Catgori                                  350.0
o/ Conent 1: Strengte   Sectoral Fede Instutions
Compoet II: nestm Suppott to Local Water Uties
Componen Ill: subtIoa support for War Uibs
WI The expedit  to be finad exlude all tae and aiso 1WA.



- 38 -
2.52 To expedite the project execution, a Special Account will be opened in Banco de M6dco,
with an initial deposit of US$30 million equvalent, representing the estimated loan
disbursements in the peak four month period.
2.53 Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for expenditures under
contcs for goods below US$350,000, for works below US$2,000,000 and for consulting
services below US$100,000 for firms or US$50,000 for individuals, which are the limits for
Bank's prior review, and will be made on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements contracts for goods
above the prior review limits will be made against full documentation submitted to the Bank.
The Bank reserves the right to suspend all disbursements at any time, if it deems that the
eliibility critena for subprojects have not been met duning its ex-post review of selected
subprojects.
2.54 Up to US$35 million, which represents 10% of the total loan, would be eligible for
retroacive financing to ensure continuity of the project works as all funds from the First Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (Loan 3271-ME) have been committed. The step would
eliminate any possible delay or slow down in getting the project underway. All retoactive
financing would be in accordance with Bank guidelines and for expenditures incurred after July
7, 1993.
L. Project Benefits
2.55 lne project will have a directly beneficial impact on the health and quality of life of the
populations served by the participating local WUs. Depending in the improvements to be made
the quality of service as well as the extent of coverage shoul improve significantly.
2.56  The project would benefit urban municipalities by targeting public inestment to priority
basic infiastructure. It would directly benefit about 10 million people. In addition, the project
would: (a) contribute to the rationaliationf sector investnients; (b) promote water conservation
through the imlementation of more rational taxiffs and investments to reduce unaccounted-for-
water; (c) encoage more cost-effective policies; (d) stimulate internlsector savings; (e) reduce
the sector's dependence on Govemnmt funding; (f) promote te adoption of cost-effective
policies to achieve environmental improvements; (g) promote private sectr participation by
providing technical assistance in the development of a regulatory framework, and (h) encourage
investment in human-resource development. Improved water quality would contribute to better
control of gastro-intestinal diseases and cholea, which are especially prevalent in the poorer
areas of Mexico.
2.57 In addition to the above benefits, the project is atpected to: (a) reduce pressure on the
public budget by reducing grants; (b) exand the technical capacity of IMTA and of the WUs;
(c) increase the number of beneficiary WUs through the project's national coverage; and (d)
stimulate the development of interventions from the private sect" resulting in higher efficiency
of the sector and creation of local employment opportnties with better paid salaries and
benefits.
2.58 All subprojects for water supply and sewerage will be required to demonstrate a
inimum rate of return of 12% (para. 2.12 (e)). The ERR will be estimatd in accordance with



- 39 -
the methodology specified in the Guidelines for the Preparation of the Master Plans (Annex K).
In addition various alternatives will be examined using the NPV criterion.
M. Environmental Impact
2.59 The proposed project has been assigned an evironmental category of B. It would help
to improve environmental conditions in the project areas. In addition, investments in sewers and
increases in affordable water services would improve the health and living standard of those who
are not yet receiving these services. Improved environmental conditions would benefit the whole
community. The rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems would reduce water
pollution and minimize the danger of water borne diseases. The proposed project would assist
Mexico in improving its water pollution control policies by providing CNA with added capacity
to develop pollution control strategies, to momitor water quality and to enforce environmental
regulations and to train an adequate number of staff in municipalities to ensure compliance with
existing SEDESOI's environmental guidelines. Environmental impact and mitigating measures
would be assessed as part of each master plan, and individual ivestments detailed in the
Memorandum of Understanding will have complete ElAs in accordance with existing SEDESOL
guidelines.
N. RPsks
2.60 The technology involved in the proposed iimestments and the required technical assistance
are standard and present no unusual risks. However, continued reform of sector policies and
institutions is a complex undertaing, and may be subject to various political and other changes.
Although major reform measures were tk  under Loan 3271-ME, the followng risk remain:
(a) inadequate counterpart funds due to Govemment delays in distbuting its revenue-sharing
contribution to the states and municipalities; (b) failure to give the beneficiaries a real sense of
project ownership due to pressures from a more politically powerful CNA and SEDESOL;
(c) lack of coordination between other federal programs such as SOLIDARIDAD that may
introduce policy changes affecting overall implementation of sector policies agreed to in the
context of the project; and (d) BANOBRAS having to relax subproject conditionality due to
political pressures from central and local governments.
2.61 The project has been designed to reduce these risks to an acceptable level. The risks
descibed under (a) in para. 2.60, would be reduced through the mechanism of the
Memorandum of Understanding which would requmre adequate funding as a condition of Bank
approval of the investment plan; regarding (b) above, this risk will be addressed by providing
funding for the prepartion of Master Plins for the WUs; the risk of SOLIDARIDAD changing
its present policies (point (c)) is addressed by requiring agreement with the Bank for any
deparures in these areas.
0. InternationalWaterwas
2.62  Mexico shares inteail watrways with Bdiz, Guatemala and the United States
International waterways as defined in OD 7.50 include not only rivers or other bodies of waters
that form a boundary between countries but also dvers or bodies of surfce waters that flow



- 40 -
through two or more states and tributaries or other bodies of surface water that are a part or a
component of any such waterways. The proposed project is national in scope and under its
investment component local improvements in water supply treatment and sanitation may be
financed through subloans in areas that could affect Mexico's intemational waterways. While
both the Mexican authorities and the Bank believe that, because of the nature of the project,
these improvements would only have beneficial effects, if any, on other riparians, it is too early
to detenrine the possible impacts on neighboring countries until the actual investments have been
identified and appraised. After discussion of this matter with Mexico, and at the request of
Mexico, it was agreed that the Bank would inform the neighboring countries of the proposed
project, which was done.
2.63 Official communications from each of the three neighboring countries have been received.
In light of the procedures for selection and approval of subprojects to be financed under the
proposed loan, as well as the expected beneficial effects of such subprojects on the affected
waterways, Belize expressed its full support for the project. The United States encouraged the
Bank to continue with the preparation of the project and stated that it would review the project
at the time of its presentation to the Executive Directors. Guatemala said it would assure itself
through its bilaterl treaty agreement with Mexico that the interests of both Mexico and
Guatemala will be protected with respect to subprojects. In light of these statements, no special
provisions for subprojects that may affect international waterways with Belize, Guatemala and
the United States have been included in the project documents.



- 41 -
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED
3.1   During negotiations agreements were reached with BANOBRAS on the following:
(a)   a methodology regarding the procedure to verify and implement the EIA
requirements (Annex G), which clearly identifies the responsibilities of the INE,
WU, CNA and BANOBRAS in the preparation and verification of compliance
with EIA requirements and in the provision of funding for environmental
mitigation measures (para. 1.14);
(b)  that all WUs Master Plans would foUow CNA guidelines accepted by the Bank
for the preparation of Master Plans (Annex K), including a tariff strucure based
on the Guidelines for the preption of tariffs already approved by the Bank as
part of Loan 3271-ME (para. 1.50);
(c)  that the mix of credits, grants and ICG indicated on Tables 2.2 and 2.4 would be
applicable for any subproject (para. 2.20);
(d)  that all subloans for an amount equivalent to US$10 million or more would be
subject to the Bank's prior review, and that when presenting a subloan for
approval, BANOBRAS would present to the Bank a copy of the proposed terms
and conditions of the subloan including the amortizaton schedule. All other
subl,e3ns would be subject to selective ex-post review (pama. 2.28);
(e) that the WUs would be responsible for selecting, contracting and directing the
consultants to prepar subprojects, and that CNA would provide assistance to the
WUs unable to do the selection and contractng, only upon request from these
IWUs. (para. 2.33);
()   the preparation of semi-annual ports to be submitted to the Bank by September
30 for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31 for the semester ending
December 31. These reports will contain the inormation shown in Table 2.6
(Pan 1 of 2). The reports will be eWuated withn the parameters and the
schedule established in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2). The timing and agendas of the
semi-annual review were confimed by BANOBRAS (pam. 2.35);
(g)  that BANOBRAS would on-lend m full compliance with the agreed followig WU
eligibility criteria (paras. 2.38 and 2.11):
(i)       be organized as a financially autonomous water and sewerage
agency (para. 1.2);
(ii)       have an approved Master Plan prpared following CNA's
guidelines (Annex K), which are aisfactoy to the Bank. The
Aaster Plan could be substituted until Decenber 31, 1994 by a
fasibility study or other comprehensive planning document
approved by CNA and aisftory to the Bank, and
(iii)      adopt tariffs which cover at least operating and maintenance costs
(excluding depreciation) and debt service.



- 42 -
and with the following subloan conditionality (paras. 2.38 and 2.12):
(i)     commitment of the subborrower to carry out the subproject
actions based on agreed annual annexes to the MUs, which contain
the actions recommended in its corsponding master plan for the
current year. The annexes to the MUs specify the proposed
infrastcture investments and institutional strengthening actions to
be caried out dunng a twelve month peiod and the tagets for the
operational and financial performance indicators to be achieved
during each year (Annex N);
(ii)    recording of the first MU (paa. 2.32);
(iii)    commitment to increase water and sewerage rates in accordance
with prqjected tanff requirements in the Master Plan to cover the
recommended investment progam (para. 1.50);
(IV)    agrement to the mix of credits, grants and ICG as per pam.
2.20; and
(v)     the proposed subproject must present a minimum economic rate of
return of 12% for water supply and for sewage facilities (pwa.
2.57).
(h)  that it would take all required actions, including hiring consultants, if necessy,
to establish the MIS needed to carry out a satisfactory supervision of the project
(pam. 2.38); and
(i)  that the following procurement procedures would be followed (par. 2.49):
(1)   bid packages or contracts for the supply of goods estmated to cost more
than US$350,000 equivalent each would be procured following ICB
procedures based on the new Standard Bidding Documents agreed upon
with the Govenment of Mexico and dated December 8, 1993. In
procurement of goods through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be
granted a margin of prefence of 15% or the amount of custom duties
and import taxes, whichever is smaller, in accordance with Bank's
procedures;
(ii)  bid paclages or contracts for the suply of goods estmated to cost the
eqivalent of less than US$350,000 but more than US$150,000 up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$49,000,000 may be procured
following locally advertised compeidtive bidding procedures (LCB), using
Standard Bidding Documents satsctory to the Bank;
(iii)  civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or more per
contract/package, would be procured following ICB procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works, with
changes agreed with Bank to tak into account country and project
situations.
(iv)  civil works of US$10,000,000 equivalent or less, but more thn
US$300,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$497,000,000
equivalent would be awarded following locally adveised competitiv
bidding procedures (LCB) and foreign bidders would be given an equal
opporunity to compete. LCB procurement will be done in accrdace
with Standard Biddimg Documents for Works aisftory to the Bank;
(v)   consultantsfor (a) institutional strengthening; (b) tehcl assstance; and
(c) detailed engineering of warks would be selected and bired in



- 43 -
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants; prior
review of the Bank would be required for short lists, terms of reference
CrOR), selection procedures, budget, letter(s) of invitation and
supplementary infoniation, as well winning proposal and respective
Contract in the case of consulting services estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more for consulting firms, or the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more for individuals. The new Standard Contract for
Consultants' Services (July 1993 veion) would be used for any
consulting sevices contract to be awarded under the project; and
(vi) subloans based on other than a Master Plan shall not exceed, up to
December 31, 1994, the aggregate of US$50,000,000 equivalent (pam.
2.11 (b)).
3.2    Assurances were obtained from the Government on the following:
(a)   the final text of the policy letter (para. 1.18);
(b)  that CNA would pvide the status of basin studies in an annual comprehensive
progress report to be submitted to BANOBRAS (pam. 1.21);
(c)  that CNA would provde a progress report on the preparation of a water quality
labotoy and cetification program (par  1.44);
(d) that CNA would submit to BANOBRAS a report with the status of the nafional
tagets to increase the volume of municipal wastew   teated to be included in
the semiannual reports, as scheduled in Table 2.6 art 2 of 2), and evaluated
during the review missions (para. 1.52);
(e)   that the amount of US$94 million equivalt requird as counterpart funds for the
FY 1994 is included in the appved budget for FY 1994 (para 2.24). For
fume FYs, the budget allocation for the year will be reviewed dunng the review
meedng held on or about November 1st. each year (Fble 2.6).
(f)  that any departue from the present financial mix, shown in Tables 2.2 and 2.4,
would be discussed and agreed with the Bank (para. 2.23);
(g) that CNA would be responsible for reviewing and approving the Master Plans
(par. 2.34);
(h)   that CNA would be responsible for reviwng and approving the design and
consuction documents to guarantee that subprojects are executed according to
the offcial norms and following the pnorities established in the corresponding
Master Plan (pam 2.34);
(i)  that CNA would monitor the sus of the project and sector as a whole, based
upon the individual monitoring idicatrs of the WUs contained in the annexes
to the MUs (Annex N) (am 2.39);
)    that infonnation on the individual WUs and sector monitoring indicators would
be transferred by CNA to BANOBRAS semiannually, according to the schedule



-44.-
in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), so that BANOBRAS can feed this information into the
MIS and submit it to the Bank in the semiannual progress reports (para. 2.39);
(k)  that IMTA through CNA would submit to BANOBRAS semiannually, according
to the schedule in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), a report including the following
information: (a) definition of sector training priorities for the following year; (b)
percentage of the present year's training program executed; (c) details of the
following year's training program, which would be determined according to the
WUs' needs; and (d) information concerning investment needs for training
facilities and equipment (para. 2.40);
(1)   on the plan of action for the training program for the FY 1994 and that plans for
the subsequent years would be presented to and agreed with the Bank during the
semiannual reviews as indicated in Table 2.6 (para. 2.40);
(m)  that CNA would submit to BANOBRAS semiannually, according to the schedue
in Table 2.6 (Part 2 of 2), a report on the TA and its cost, and a plan of action
and projected cost provided during the year, for the implementation of the TA to
CNA and the WUs (consolidaci6n) for the following year (para. 2.41); and
(n)  that project accounts would be audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank,
in line with the Bank/Mexico Audit Agreement (November 1991) Genel
Secretaiat of the Comptroller of the Federation (SECOGEP) (para. 2.42).
3.3   Condition of Effectiveness. To declare the proposed loan effective, the following
conditions shall be met:
(a)  the Guarantor and BANOBRAS shall provide to the Bank an executed contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, specifying these Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfers and
onlending procedures (paras. 2.22 and 2.15);
(b)   BANOBRAS shall have (a) the MIS operational (this means to have all the
hardware and software installed and the system able to perform a successful dry
run of an Annex to a Memorandum of Understanding); and (b) the ECU legally
established (para. 2.38).
3.4   With the above conditions met, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
a loan of US$350 million equivalent to BANOBRAS, repayable in 15 years and including a five
year grace period at the Bank's standard variable intrest rate and reroactive financing
equivalent to 10% of the total loan amount.



- 45 -
ANNEX A
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE NATIONAL WATER COMMISION
(Comisidn Naldonal del Agua - "C.N.A.)
FSE2EMIAT OF A8RCWLU2
H3LIC  UES5SC
m m
Uydraagricu1tur.    Hydau1tn Urban        VtrPlamlinW   d1  Uhdtrectoate of
tnfrastructure      dInfrstrucu       Adainlnstrattan        Financtng        Aidajllntratton
MEXICAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ANtE'  FFE 
OFr'sIE                           OF OTfiSe
Speata Troeatmen
er's Office ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       miuf
of~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCA
StudSe andL*
Manws  Office
of 
Of ~ ~ ~ ~          w      f tE 
KI I OFFICAES |
I@S@PJSOff§CE~ ~ ~~O It                INA
Nm,.l Office|
W ate  ren 



- 46 -                          B
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND  ATION SECTOR PROJECT
Speiic Ectios of Fedal and State Ilstitutions for the Project
| INSTITUTIlO   CENTRAL GOVERNmENT LEVE              FTJNIONATsTATE LEVEL
LEVEL           FUNCTION
water                                                Responsible for.
Utility                                              -Preparation of Master Pa and
Mdemorandum of Undrtning.
-Peparation of implemeation schedle.
-Preparation of final design.
-TIhe execution of the project (biding,
awarding of conts and sgature of
con)tacts) and its supevision.
-The proper utilization of the subloan
under the conditions agreed with
BANOBRAS and request the federal and
ste participation.
-Providing CNA with the stistcal
information required for its Geneal
Information Systemfor the Water and
Sanitat  Sectr (SIAPA).
-The fal authoriztion of disbursement
based on the supervision of engineers.
-Responsible for proig  BANOBRAS
wh ifomadon reqired regag its
financial sitton, monitoring indicaos
and compliance widt loan cvents
State                                                -Contribute a conespdin part to the
Govemment                                            financing of the subproject
-Act as the Guarantor to the Loan from
BANOBRAS to the WU.
Stats Water                                         -Rview the prorities of the ivestments
Supply and                                           proposed by the WUs.
Sanitao                                              -Coordina  and presents the Annual
Subcommittee                                         Operatonal Plan (POA)
(SWSS)                                               -Adjust the final POA based on
(Subcomite                                           SEDFSOL's final deteinaion of
Especial de                                          budget (Techo fnanciero) lmit.
Agua (SEAPA))                        .



-47 -                         A
Page 2 of 2
SEDESOL         -Prepares  aer and sewerage sector   -Defines the availability of Federl
INE             budget at the federa leveL           participation.
-Defines, assMgns and audthories the  -Disbursement of authorized Federal
respective budget imits (Techos      paricpaton.
Finanieros) for al the states.       -Fbolow up the investment progamm and
-Review and approve the environmental   supervses the application and use of the
impact assessment through the INE for   budget as approved.
each sub-loan.
CNA             -Technical Agent of the Govment      -Approves the eligibility of proposed
-Applies, modifies, and monitors sector-  actions to be implemented by the WUs.
development policies.                -Provides Technical Assstance to WUs in
-Prepares technical standards.       their institutional development progams.
-Develops and implements, in         -Provides Technical Assistance to the
coordination with 1A, the National    WUs in the preparation of constucton
Training Program.                    and supervision of the proposed
-Monitors, collects and publishes the  investments.
==______ =      annual performance indicators.        -Ensures compliance with EIA process.
BANOBRAS        -Financial Agent for the Federal     -Reviews the eligibility of contacts of
Government for the Inastructure      works and supplies with the collaboation
projects financed with the assistance of   of CNA regarding the technical aspects.
inte!natioa Insttudons.              -Negotiates and formaliz  subloan
-Defines the credit limits           agreements.
-Verifies the execution of the       -Responsible of the integration of all
I.   I subproects.                   funds from the Federal and State
-Follow up the implementatin of      Governments and maks final payments.
subprojects thrugh the ECU and       -Supervise the financial peromance of
monitors compliance with loan        the projecL
covenant.
-Prepares the required reports for the
Bank and other Govemrment Institutions.
-Carries out the financial evaluation of
the subproject



- 48 -                    A
Page 1 of 8
MEXCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Overview of the National Water Law
A. Water and Article 27 of the Constiution
1.    According to paragraph five of article 27 of the Consitution, most waer
is considered to be the property of the State. This artcle establishes that:
"As property of the nation are the waters of the territorial seas...
those of lagoons and estuaries... those of lakes... those of the
rivers and their direct or indirect tributaries... The waters may
be freely exploited... but when demanded by public interest... the
Fedeal Executive may regulate its extraction and use and even
establish reserves, the same as for other waters that are national
property. '...other waters, if they are located on two or more
pieces of propery, the use of these waters will be considered of
public utility and will be subject to the provisions dictated by the
States."
2.   The fact that water is the property of the nation does not mean that the
issue stops there. In the same article 27, in the following paragraph, it is
established that: "the dominion of the Nation is inalienable and imprescriptible
and the exploitation, the use or the harness... by private parties or by entities
constituted in accordance with Mexican laws, may not carry out these actions
without concessions granted by the Federal Executive, in accordance with the
rules and conditions established by the law. "
3.    The message of this paragraph is very clear. Water may be used by
individuals, as long as the federal government grants the coresponding
concession. These paragraphs were not reformed when article 27 of the
constitution was modified in January of 1992. As a result, the concessions for
water use have always been based on the constitution. Only specific modalities,
were charged as secondary legislation changed for water and agriculture.
B. The New Law
4.    Like the previous legislation, the new law regulates article 27 with
respect to Mexican waters. The objective here is to regulate the exploitation
and use of water, its distribution and control, and to preserve its quantity and
quality in order to "achieve its sustainable integral development."



- 49 -                      ANNEX-C
Page 2 df 8
5.    The law is divided into ten tides which, in turn, are divided into chapters
and articles. The first tidtle contains the prelimiinary provisions while the second
deals with water administrion. The third sets forth hydrulic programming,
the fourth deals with water use rights and the fifth handles water reserve zones.
6.    Further on in the sixth title, reference is made to water use, while the
seventh deals with ecological questions. Investment provisions are contained in
the eighth title, national property is in the ninth title and the tenth tide conains
violations and sanctions.
7.    This Annex deals with these topics in the same order as they are set
forth in the law, with the analysis beginning in the second tidtle where the
substantive issues begin.
C. The Administration of MAexian Waters
8.    The most important aspect of this tide is the institutional framework for
water management. The Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources is
the division of the federal government in charge of the administion of
Mexican waters.
9.    Also, contemplated in the law is a decentralizd  National Water
Commission in charge of water administration. Among the duties of this
Commission are: 1) to formulate the national hydraulic program; 2) to oversee
the coherence among the respective programs and to assign the necessary
resources to carry them out; 3) to support the development of drainage and
drnklng water systems, as well as insure water quality, treatment and recycling
and to oversee irrigation and drainage systems and flood control.
10. As for flood control, the law stipulates that the Commission may
'contract or grant concessions to third parties for those services under its
control, as it may find convenient." This clause clearly lets the privat sector
participate in the area.
11.   Other important duties of the Commission are: 4) to constuct, opewate,
conserve and maintain federal hydraulic projects, either direedy or through third
party concession contracts; and 5) to promote the efficient use and consevation
of water in all phases of the hydrological cycle.
D. National Water Use Rights
12.   This tide lists the opportunities and restictions for the use of water. The
first important point is the freedom to extract both interior and territorial marine
waters. Not even a concession is needed.



-50 A-NNC
Page 3 of 8
13.   Second, free extraction of underground water by means of arificl
projects is permitted. The only exception made here is in those cases where the
federal govemment regulates its extraction and use for the public good.
14.  Third, the exploitation and use of Mexican waters by private individuals
or companies wull be carried out through concessions granted by the
Commission. The law establishes the Commission's obligadon to answer all
applications for concessions within 90 worling days.
15. The fourth aspect of this title is very significant. The Commission has
two options in the granting of concessions: a) open bidding, if it sees
competition among various interests; and b) direct grants. It is important that
the assignment of concessions be as competitive a process as possible, so tbat
the greatest demands for water can be met.
16. The fifth section of this title sets the terms for the concessions.
Concessions will be given for no less than five years and no more than fifty
years. The longer the time frame for concessions, the greater is the social
benefit. When concessions are longer, the incentive disappears to use up the
water source during the duration of the concession.
17.  The old law contemplated maximum time frames of fifty years for
concessions. Under the new law, concessions may be renewed for equal
periods, at the opton of the concessionaire. For example, if a concession is
granted for fifty years, it may be etended for another fifty.
18. The aspect represents a significant legal advance. In the old law, "the
works and other private real estate, destned direcdy or permanently to the
exploitation or use of water" became the dominion of the nation, without any
compensation at the end of the concession.
19.   Such a provision inhibited investment in the activity. Worse yet, it
promoted the irrational consumption of water. The concessonaire had no
incentive to undertake projects that would result in the conservaton of water.
20.   The sixth provision regarding concessions is that use water can now be
changed, as long as the volume of water to be used is not altered. Only a notice
has to be given to the Commission. In the former law, a change in the use of
the water was cause for revocation of the concession. Thus this change is
positive in that it results in the deregulated use of water-with lower user cost.
21.   Concessionaires are also entided to tansfer concessions' titles, along
with the coesponding rights.  In the case of a simple change of
concessionaires, only a notice has to be given to the Public Registry of Water
Rights.



- 51 -                       ANNE C
Page 4 of 8
22. The previous regulation did not specifically outline the procedure for
transfers. A transfer will require government authorization, and not merely a
notice.
23.   Here the govemment enjoyed full discretionary power. A concession
transfer not authorized by the Government was cause for revocation of the
concession. Under the new law, there will be a suspension (not revocation) of
the concession while the concessionaire aranges the situation.
24. In the case of a change of the concessionaire, the new concessionaire has
fifteen days to make the necessay arrangements before the suspension goes into
effect, while he or she changes the registration.
25. The creation of the Public Water Rights Registry is contemplated in the
new legislation. This registry will contain the deed of concessions, assignment
and permits.
26. Likewise, a permanent national registry will be maintained by zones or
regions and it will include extraction projects and gushing works. The purpose
of this regsy is to keep record of the behavior of the aquiferous stata, and
where necesary, regulate their exploitation or use.
27. Any person may consult the Public Water Rights Registry. The
existence of this registry is important since it gives certainty to propy rights
and reduces the discretionary power of government.
E  Water Reseve or Presevation Zones
28.   Title five of the law grants the federal executive the power to establish
water reserve or preservadon zones, as long as such declarations are backed by
technical studies. This obligates the governmet to technically prove that a
preservation zone is necessary, preventing abuses of authrity.
29.   The cases for preservation zones contemplated in the new legislation are
the following:
a)    where there is need for the prevention or combat against the over-
exploitation of water-bearing strata;
b)    where there is need for the protection or restoration of ecosystems;
c)    where there is need to preserve drinldng water or protect it from
conmiain;
d)    where there is need for water quality control; and
e)    when there is a water shortage or drought.



-52 -                     ANN      C
Page 5 of 8
30.   The decrees for water preservation or reserves must include time frames.
Such a condition is important to prevent the productive under-utilization of
water after the conditions giving rise to the decree have ended.
F. Urban Public Water Use
31. This title includes three basic stipulations. The first established that the
state and municipal govemments may exploit, use or take advantage of national
water through the assignment granted by the Commission. An assignment is
equivalent to a concession in that it refers to the rights and obligations of the
assignee.
32. The second indicates that the municipalities or states may grant drinking
water and drainage system concessions to private parties. It was crucial to
include this provision to increase the supply of these types of services. Now
private investment can at least pardally cover some of the infrastructure gaps in
this area caused by government spending cutbacks.
33.   The third stipulation states that the Commission may undertake projects
for water supply, pipelines, treatment or drinking water conditioning when: a)
the project covers more than one state; b) the financing comes from the
respective states or municipalities; c) the recovery of the investment is
guaranteed; d) the contracing party (i.e., the state, municipality or the private
concessionaie) assumes the responsibility to operate, conserve, maintain and
rehabilitate the hydraulic infrastructure.
34.   Such conditions are only the minimum that should prevail as critexia for
hydraulic projects. Otherwise resources would run out and future investment
would be over-ommitted.
35.   Furthermore, when various entities benefit from a public works project,
it is understandable that a higher entity should administer it. The Commission
is also able to resolve confficts if any should arise in such joint projects.
G. Agricultural Water Use
36.   Water concessions may be granted to ejidos, individual ejido members,
communities, small landowners and companies owning agricultural, grazng or
forest lands. Furthermore, if a concessionaire acquires more land, he may use
the concessioned water on it, as long as third parties are not affected.
37.   One serious barrier to productivity in the old law was eradicated with the
new regulations. Previously, irrigation was allowed only for plots of 20
hectares. Of course this limit was inadequate, falling below the limit for the
small landholder, which remains 100 hectares.



- 53 -                    ANNEXC
Page 6 of 8
38.   Exploitation or use rights can also be transferred for agricultural, grazng
or forestry. Likewise, transfers may be arranged for irrigation units, disticts
or systems. In either case, however, the details will be worked out in the
respective regulations.
39.   When a company operates an irrigation system, it has the obligation to
guarantee and protect the individual rights of its members or of the users of the
irrigation service. This duty ensures equity. To leave small farmers without
water would be socially unacceptable and politically explosive.
40.   To comply with the objectives of efficiency, the law stipulates that the
company must maintain the infrastructure and invest in improvements. These
investments have to be made in such a way that costs can be recovered.
41.   This question is crucial, making it advantageous to reproduce the text of
the law. "It will be obligatory for the members or users to pay the fees
established in order to continue receiving the service to effect the use.
42.  Traditionaly, water for irrigation districts was highly subsidized, partly
because of political considerations. The situation changes, however, when the
water consumers must respond to a company and not to the govemment. Thus
it is important to have a legal obligation imposed on the concessionaire to take
care of the infuctre of the irnigation districts in a way that is financially
feasible, and without the need for subsidies.
43.   As for ejidos and communities, 'under no circumstances will the
assembly or the ejido commissioner use or determine the exploitation or use of
water destined to the land parcels, without the prior and express consent of the
ejido members with titie to said parcels."
44.   In the cases where an eJido member opts to tum his parcel into private
property, the exploitation or user rights of the irrigation water necessary for the
parcel will be transferred. The adoption of full domain implies that the ejido
or communal property member will exploit or use water as a concessionaire,
under the terms of the new law.
45. This last provision removes a barrier facing an ejido member who had
to put off privatizing his parcel for the fear of losing his right to water. Clearly
this clears up an institutional bias and establishes a fundamental legal guarantee
that serves for free decision making.
46.   The same takes place in those cases where the ownership of common-use
ejidol land is transferred or where firms take over the use of the land under the
terms of the agraian law. The acquirng firm will conserve the corresponding
water exploitation or user rights.
47.   Another important element of the new law concems the irrigation units.
"Rural producers may freely enter into associations to become corporations, for



- 54 -ANNEXC
Page 7 of 8
the purpose of integrating systems that will provide agricultiral irigation
services to various users..."
48.  Individuals or companies may become a corporation for the purpose of
constituting an irrigation unit for any of the following three objectives: 1) to
construct and operate its own infrastructure; 2) to construct inigation
infastructure projects jointly with public resources and take over the operation,
conservation and maintenance; and 3) to operate, conserve, maintain and
rehabilitate federal public infrastructure that has been solicited in concession
from the Commission. This irrigation unit will operate autonomously.
49.   Another interesting aspect of the law concerns the irrigation districts
(which differ from the irgation units in that they cover a larger geographical
area). When the Commission has participated in the financing, construction and
opertion of an irrigation district, after a designated period, its administration
and operation will be passed on to the users.
30.  The Commission not only opens the way for private sector participation.
It goes beyond at to obligate itself to deliver projects to those demanding
water. Through the association, the water is concessioned to the users. This
provision is -a clear example of the liberal spirit behind the new law.
51. The authority assures the recovery of the investment in irrigation or
daminage districts by demanding that farmers put up their land as guarantees for
tie projects. In the case of ejido or communal property members, they must put
up their right to use of the parcel.
52.   Such a change would have been impossible without the modification of
the agranan legislation. The prior law made it illegal to subject ejidal or
communal lands to liens.
H. Water Quality
53.  Title Seventh is the title regarding the prevention and control of water
contamination. The Secretariat of Social Development has already been given
this duty.
54. The problem is not only that of duplicating bureaucratic tasks. It also
concerns the structure of incentives for the public agency responsible. If the
basic task of the Commission is to male the productive use of water more
dynamic, it would be advantageous to dedicate all its energy to the fulfillment
of this goal. If it must also look after water quality, however, it could end up
with internal contadictions. With the resulting institutional paralysis, it might
fail at both tasks.



- 55 -                      A-NNE C
Page 8 of 8
I. Violations
55.   The tenth and final title of the law refers to violations, sanctions and
resources. Sanctions are contemplated for the following situations: 1) improper
water drainage practices or unlawful drainage systems; 2) the use of water in
excess of that stipulated in the concession contract; 3) the use of water without
the respective concession contract; 4) supplying water for human consumption
that does not meet quality requirements; and 5) dumping of waste products into
rivers, basins, causeways or sea water.
56.   The fines for these violations are quite severe, going up to ten thousand
days worth of minimum wages in extreme cases. Such fines are needed to
discourage illicit practices that hinder the productive use of water and the
protection of the environment.
J. Fia  Considerations
57.   Certainly a great advance was achieved with the enactment of the new
Mexican Water Law. The spirit of the new regulations, greater economic
freedom, is consistent with the constitutional and legal changes in agriculture.
More favorable conditions are established for the exploitation and efficient use
of water. Progress was achieved in terms of both agricultural use and drinking
water and sewage.
58.   On balance the National Water Law is very positive. It is the most
serious attempt made thus far in Mexico to modermize the structure of water
property rights.



- 56-                                     ANNE D
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
STATUS OF WATER LAW APPROVAL AT THE STATE LEVEL
STATE        PUBLISD    APPROVAL OF   CUT OF SERVICE  AUTHORIZATION  SUIRCONTRACT
DATE        METHODS         FOR NOT       TO GRANT       WIPRIVATE
| ____________   _________   ___________        PAYMENT        CONCESSION       SECTOR
AGUASCALENTES       10/20/93   ADM.COUNCIL        YES             YES            YES
BAJA CALIFORNIA    IN PROCESS  STATE CONGRESS     YES             YES            YE
NO RTE*                             . .   .
BAJA CALIF. SUR     6120190    ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
CAMPBECHE           12/21/92   ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
COAHUILA              -       STATE CONGRESS       NO             YES            YES
COLIMA              8/24191    STATE CONGRESS      NO         NOT ALLOWED        YES
CHIAPAS*            1(20193    ADM. COUNCIL        NO             YES            YES
. _____________   IN  PROCESS
CHIHUAHUA             _        ADM. COUNCIL        NO             YES            YES
DURANGO*          IN PROCESS  STATE CONGRESS       NO             YES            YES
GUANAJUATO*         10/4/91    ADM. COUNCIL        NO             YES            YES
IN PROCESS                                                ___     _
GUERRERO            4/16/91    STATE CONGRESS     YES             YES            YES
HEDALGO             2112191    STATE CONGRESS      NO             YES            YES
JALISCO               -       STATE CONGRESS       NO         NOT ALLOWED        YES
MEX(CO                -       STATE CONGRESS       NO             YES            YES
MICHOACAN*        IN PROCESS  STATE CONGRESS      YES             YES            YES
MORELOS               -       STATE CONGRESS       NO        NOT REGULATED       YES
NAYARrT             7/1/91     CTY COUNCIL         NO             YES            YES
NUEVOLEON             -       STATE CONGRESS       NO             YES            YES
OAXACA             2V13/93     ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
PUEBLA*             21289     STATE CONGRESS      YES        NOT REGULATED       YES
IN PROCESS
QUERETARO           8/6S92     ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
QUINTANA ROO        12/31/92   ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
SAN LUIS POTOSI*    IN PROCESS  STATE CONGRESS     NO         NOT ALLOWED        YES
SINALOA               _        ADM. COUNCIL       YES         NOT ALLOWED        YES
SONORA              5s7/92     ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
TABASCO*          IN PROCESS  STATE CONGRES        NO             YES            YES
TAMAULIPAS                      GOVERNOR           NO         NOT ALLOWED        YES
TLAXCALA              -        ADM. COUNCIL        NO         NOT ALLOWED        YES
VERACRUZ            6/15/90    ADM. COUNCIL        NO             YES            YES
YUCATAN               -       STATE CONGRESS       NO             YES            YES
ZACATECAS           21l1S89    ADM. COUNCIL       YES             YES            YES
ate i proess       .
Abere are fifteen SW"e with legistade Changes.



- 57 -                    ANNEX
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PIROJECT
Definition of Sectoral and Project Monitoring Indicators
Sector Indicators
Increase of Service
Water Connections: Number of new water connections in each year of project
implementation .
Sewerage Connections: Number of new sewerage connections in each year
of project implementation.
Waste water treated m31sec/year The amount of Cubic Meters per second
that will be tra   by WUs during each year.
Percentage of chlorinated water. Percentage of water produced and provided
to the user that has been treated with chloride, in the sector, each year.
Percentage of metered connections: Yearly average of connections with
working meters.
Percentage of municipalities in compliance with Particular Standards. This
represents the percentage of Municipalities with population above 80,000 that
are in compliance with the Clean Water Standards that have been defined in
paricular for each Municipality.
Project Indicators
Trining
Number of: The yearly indicator of WUs staff of be trined by l!TA in
accordance with IMTA's training program. (Annex R)
Credit hours per class year: This annual total is arrived by multiplying the
number of trainees by the time spent in the class room.
Number of WUs affected: This is the number of WUs that have benefitted
each year by the training program developed by IMTA. This number will
always be larger than the total of WUs in the program, as WUs may take part
in one or more of the training courses provided by IMTA during the course of
the calendar year.



- 58-                      AN        E
Page 2 of 3
Consolidaci6n
Leglatve changes of state agelndes: This is the number of states that will
have approved, in each particular year, the new water law that guarantees the
right of the WUs to cut the service for lack of payment, the approval of tariffs
at the local level and the authority to enter into concessions with the private
sector.
Commerdial Inprovements: This is the number of WUs that will have
established a plan of action to inprove billing and collection, and that have
actually started the implementation of such actions.
Operational improvements: The number of WUs that will have prepared,
under the direction of IMTA or any other consultant, a plan of action to
improve its operations, and have actually initiated its implementation. This plan
of action will consist of specific actions to improve the availability of service,
towards the goal of 24 hour water supply under acceptable pressures for the
whole network, and to improve quality of service by implementing a
maintenance program in accordance with acceptable engineering practices.
AdrnAn;strative mprovee    The number of WUs that will have initiated
the rgation of its adminion based on the recommendations of the
Master Plan. This may include the creation of a planning department, the
estblishment of a Management Information System (MIS) to provide timely
data to management, the implementation of adequate accounting in accordance
with generally acceptable accounting practices, and the initiation of the
implementation of tariff reform in accordance with the agreement reached in the
Memorandum of Understanding.
Master Plans: Number of new Master Plans to be prepared during a given
calendar year.
Memoranda of Understanding: Number of new Memoranda of Understanding
than will be prepared each year.
Subsidy
Lowering of Subsidy. The total amount of subsidy in US Dollars that will be
reduced each year as compared to the total subsidy given in 1993, as a result of
increased use of credit or increased Internal Cash Generaton (ICO) in the
fiancing of subprojects.



- 59 -                   A m
Page 3 of 3
MCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Indicative Sectoral and Project Implementation Indicators
1994    1995    1996    1997
Increase in Service (Sector Monitoring Indicators
- Water connections (thousands)                 500    500      500      500
- Sewerage connections (thousands)              600    600      600      600
- Waste water treated m3Jsec/year                70      90      115     135
- Percentage of chlorinated water                96      97      97       97
- Percentage of metered connections              60      70      75       80
- Percentage of municipalities in compliance with  30    41      56       76
Particular effluent Standards
Tmjining (Project Monitoring Indicators)
- Number of Trainees                           1,100   1,150   1,380   1,370
- Credit hours per class/year                  1,920   2,000   2,400   2,400
- Number of WUs affected                        130     150     170      190
consolida on (Project Monitoring Indicators)
- Legislative changes of state agencies           6       6       4
- Commercial improvements                        S0      40      30       30
- Operatonal improvement                         40      40      30       30
- Administrative improvement                     30      30      20       20
- Master Plans                                   30      15       10
- Memoranda of Understanding                     60      50      40       40
Subsidy (Project Monitoring Indicators)
- Lowering of subsidy (Million of US$)           67      64      60       51



- 60 -F
Page 1 of 14
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Regulations and Guidelines for Environment Impact A _essment
A. Summary
1.   Envionmental assesment was introduced as a tool of Mexican
environmental policy in 1988 by legisation entitled, Ley General del EqullbFio
Ecol6gico y k. Proteccift al Ambiente (heafterrefred to as the General
Law). The Laer Reglaeo de la Ley General del Eqlibo Ecok5gico y la
Proteccdn at Ambiente en Materia de Impacto Ambiental (herfter referred to
as the mplementing regulations) effectively regulated the official reqWrement
of an environmental impact assessment EA)', as well as its preparton and
resentation. Article 5 of the implementing regulations stipu   that water
works are subject to the ELA process, and the agency responsible for their
analysis is the institwo Nadiona,l de Ecologfa ONE), part of SEDESOL
2.   The Mexian legisation allows for the possibility to dispense with the
presention of an EIA by submitting an WoUme preemw, or prior notice,
demonstrain  that the development or activity in queson will not cause
nve   en ental impacts, nor exceed limits and standards defined by
tecical and enviro tal regulations. This procedure effectively consttes
a screning process. When presentation of an EIA is judged necessary, three
possible categories aest-geneal, intermediate and specific-in accordance with
increasin complexity and potential environmental impact of the project
3.    Overall, the operational mechanisms adopted in Mexico for handing
EIAs should be considered adequate. The introduction of the EIA process is
however, relatively new, and there are two areas where strengthening is needed.
Fist, te  is a need for dissemination of EIA regulations and training on
prepraton of MIAs. Tle project will address this issue by funding semina
and tining on ElAs for water sector projects. Second, the capacity of  ME
needs stengteing. INE lacks sufficient peroel to cary out its functons
in a timely manner. Assistnce to INE is being provided through the Meaico
Environmental Project (MEP-Loan 3461-ME). Tne MEP aims to impwrove
INE's capabilites to evaluate environmental impact and risk assessmets by
incrasing the staff responsible for reviewing ELAs and traiing such staff.
4.    The majority of the subprojects to be finded under this project will not
require an EIA but only a "prior notice", for exanple, a sbproject to expad
existng watr supply and sanitadon systems or insitutional strengthening. A
1. Th repost ue de comnao English acronym for eav_oument impact nss     I



- 61-                     ANNEXP
Page 2 of 14
limited number of subprojects, such as construction of wastewater treatment
plants, will require an EIA. AUl subprojects will be based on a Master Plan that
has a chapter that identifies and provides a preliminary assessment of the
environmental impacts of all proposed investments. Until now, water sector
ElAs have been processed in a timely fashion, and the executing agencies have
made a commitment to continue this in the cunrent project.
B. Legal Framework
5.   Mexico has a highly developed legal and institutional framework for
environmental assessment. Legislation regarding ElAs is contained in the
General Law and the implementing regulations. The law adequately specifies:
(a)   activities that are subject to EIA;
(b)  institutional responsibilities for EIA preparation and evaluation;
(c)   a screening mechanism to limit EIA preparation to projects with
significant impacts;
(d)   different kinds of EIA in accordance with the complexity of the
project or activity;
(e)   specific time limits for EIA processing;
(t)  the authority of SEDESOL to halt project activities pending
submission and approval of an appropriate EIA;
(g)   mandatory public hearings as part of the EIA process.
6.    Activities subect to EIA. The General Law defines an environmental
impact as a "modification of the environment caused by human or natal
action." The General Law specifies that projects and activities by the private
and public sector that may cause environmental damage or that violate
environmental regulations and standards are subject to pnor authorzation of the
Federal Govenmuent through SEDESOL, tirough other federal or municipal
entities according to the division of responsibilities established in the law.
Authorization is conditional on the implementation of actions to ensure
compliance with existing environmental regulations. In this process the
authorizing entity has broad discretionary authority to impose and enforce
environmental protective conditions. The General Law defines an EIA as:
[A] document s-'%ich, based on the completion of studies, reports
significant and potential environmental impacts to be generated
by a project or other activity, and which determines [measures)
to be taken should [those impacts] be negative.
7.    Responibilities for Environmental Impact Assessment. The General
Law's article 29 grants SEDESOL, on behalf of the federal government, the
autority to evaluate enl impact assesments for, among other areas,
federal public works and water projects (including drinnng water supply and the
ollection, treatnent and disposal of sewage), with the exceptions indicated in
Article S of the implementing regulations (see pam 11). INE, affiliated with



- 62-
Page 3 of 14
SEDESOL, is responsible for the analysis of infonmes pevemivos and for the
dispensation, requirement and analysis of ElAs. Tlhe Procuraduria Fedeal de
Protecci6n al Ambiente (PROFEPA), also part of SEDESOL, is in charge of
enforcing the mitigation actions required by the ElIAs.
8.    The states and municipalities have the authority to evaluate the
environmental impacts of projects and activities not stated in Article 29 (cited
above), or not attributed legally to the federal level.
9.   It is the responsibility of the interested party to present the EtA to the
corresponding authority, and to accompany the EIA by a risk assessment, if
deemed necessary. The law also grants any individual the right of public
inquiry into EIA proceedings conceming a specific project or acivities. It also
detemines that SEDESOL will provide, on behalf of the federal govemnment,
technical assistance upon request to state and municipal governments in
evaluating ElAs and risk assessments.
10.   CNA, linked to SARH, holds responsibility for the management of water
rewsources (quality and quantity) and preparation of different types of EIAs for
projects that it implements, and provides technical assistance to WUs.
11.  Screening Mehanism. The law specifies a list of water works eempt
for EIA requirements and a screening mechanism for works that require EIA.
The exemptions are:
(a) irrigation and flood control dams with a capacity of less than one
thousand five hundred cubic meters.
0b) Irrigation units with extension of less than 100 ha.;
(c)   Wells (isolated);
(d) Small irrigation intakes;
(e)   Extraction from natural water bodies when the volume to be extacted
is less than 10% of the anmual volume;
(1)   The ones that occupy a surface of less than 100 ha.;
(g) Rehabilitation works; and
(h)   Publc Works  a sarted construction pior to 1982 (when the Ecology
Law was passed).
12.  A screeng mechanism that allows waiving of the obligation to present
an EIA to SEDESOL is provided for in article 7 of the implementing
regulations. To have the EIA requirement waived, the intrsted party must
demonstrate to SEDESOL, via an infomie prevenivo, or prior notice, that the
project or activity in question will not cause negadve environmental impacts,
nor violate the limits and standards determined by the country's environmental
rules and regulations. If SEDESOL, in analyzing the infomze prevendvo, judges
an ETA to be necssary, the agency will advise the interested party as to what
kind of EIA should be submitted: general, intemmediate ar specific. This is
done acoording to Article 9, which regulates the types of MIA required under
different circumstances. In its decision, SEDESOL considen the haa is



-63-
Page 4 of 14
of the project or activity, its magnitude, impact and the proposed
implementation site.
13.  The content of the infonme preventivo is appropriate for detemining
potental impacts, particularly in the case of drinldng water supply projects and
wastewater treatment plants for small communities. The guidelines that specify
the content of the pnor notice are presented in Appendix 1. CNA and
SEDESOL have agreed on criteria to identify whether a project would require
only a prior notice or an ETA and what type of ETA would be required. These
are presented in Appendix 2. Among the criteria used to determine whether to
require an EIA, the following factors deserve special attention:
(a)   feasibility of modifications to the project under analysis and federal, state
and municipal rules and standards in force;
(b) potential for conflict over land use stemming from the implementation
and operation of the project;
(c) potentially negative repercussions in areas of ecological and/or other
importance (mentioned above);
(d)   and the existence of alternative sites or technologies deemed feasible.
14. In the environmental assessment of drinldng water supply systems and
sanitation projects, the issue of altemnative sites and technologies takes on great
importance. While such prects are always highly beneficial to public health
and environmental quality, it is nonetheless important to identify the soundest
of possible options (considenng the variables of conception, design and siting).
In identifying this option, not only the minimization of impacts should be
considered, but also the reduction of environmental zisk and the availability of
eiable mitigation techniques (either recommended or manted).
15. All the subprojects to be funded under the project will have a Master
Plan that would inorporate a preliminary assessment of the environmental
impact of the proposed works. The Master Plan will contain the information
necessary to prepare a prior notice and to identify what type of EA will be
necessary according to the existing legislation and what type of mitigating works
would be needed. This information will be included in Annex 1 of the
Memorandum of Understanding and the executing agency will monitor
implementation of the EIA process.
16. Guidelines for the Preparation of ElAs. The requirement and preparation
of EIAs in Mexico is based principally on Articles 5-12, 14, 15, 41 and 42 of
the implementng tegulations. These Articles establish the seres of steps
necessary for demanding EIAs and for their actual preparation. Instructions fat
formulatng the ibfomte prevenivo and the General EIA have been published in
the Gaceaa Ecol6gica, Vol. I, No. 3, September 1989. Liklwise, instuctions
for preparing intermediate and specific ElAs were published in the Vol. 1, No.
4, November 1989 .ssue of the same publication.



- 64 -ANX
Page 5 of 14
17.   CNA has developed general guidelines for the prepaaon of EIAs for
its own projects. These guidelines are entitled, EZ Procedimento de nrpacto
Ambient4l 9 (avalable in project files). The document offers a methodology for
considering emironmental variables in the planning and implementation of wat
projects. It is conceptually correct in its content and appropriate to the
prevailing legal framework. More specific guidelines for the prepaation of
ElAs for water projects are contained in Fonmndi6n de Guas Especlas para
la Presenacin de la Manmfestaci6n de Impaco Ambiemal en sus Modalidades
GeWnzl, lmemweia y speeflca para Obras idrdcas, prepared by Disefios
Hidrdcos y Tecnolog(a Ambiental, S.A. in 1990 (available in the project fles).
This document merely reproduces the content of the implementing egutions
of the General Law with respect to ElAs. In addition, it provides two models
of matrices for the prior evaluation of impacts and the detmination of the type
of EIA to be prepared (a Canadian methodology). These matrix methodologies
are used in many countnes which require the submission of ElAs. Such
matrices are adequate for the evaluation of infonneprevendvos, or prior notices.
However, it is recommended that additional criteria pertaining to site selection
be included in the evaluation process. The project will fund specific stuies to
review and update the guidelines for pearation of water sector EIAs.
18. Article 6 stipulates that high-risk projects or activities must have
(mcluded i the EAitself) an assessment of the risk of environmental accidents.
The acvities proposed for this project cannot be considered high-risk, although
the following risks should be considered:
(a)   Sludge. The risk assocated with sludge from wastwter
treatment plants arises m cases where heavy metls and
other toxic substances are present. Such situations should
be prevented through the implementation of pre-treatment
systems at the sources of emission. Otherwise, the
biological processes upon which effective treatment
depends may be jeopadized. Also, it is necessary to
determine appropriate sites and methods of treatment,
disposal or final use of sludge (e.g., incineration).
(b)   Structural. In a country subject to earthquakes such as
Mexico, situations may occur in which a physical
structure may be threatened, raising the specter of
environmental damage.  This type of risk can be
minbimzed through careful site selection for projects
(reservoirs, and water and sewage treatment plants), as
well as through the incorporation of security parameters
into engineering projects and specific construcion
techniques for tremor-prone zones.
(c)   Chlorine Las. Water and sewage teamt plants must
have scs of chlonne on hand for the treament process,



- 65 -                         XN
Page 6 of 14
thus rsking leakage. This risk is completely controllable
through well-known techniques.
19.  While the inclusion of risk assessment provisions is an important feature
of the legislation governing EIAs, it does not appear that the requirements for
risk assessment apply to the subprojects in question. Efforts to reduce risk in
the subprojects can be limited to sound site selection, adequate structural
considerations, containment basins and the usual control and detection measures
to guard against chlorine leaks.
20.   Time limits for EIA processing. Articles 14 and 15 defines the time
periods in which SEDESOL should complete its analysis of an EIA. The limits
are 30 days for general, 60 days for intermediate and in the case of specific
ELAs, the maximum is 90 days.
21. SEDESOL's right to Halt Projects. Article 41 and 42 give any
individual the right to file a complaint with SEDESOL regarding the
implementation of a project in violation of environmental legislation and
regulations. Upon receipt of the complaint, the Secretariat must investigate, and
if deemed necessary, demand from the developer one of the three types of EIA.
SEDESOL has the funther right to halt work on the project pending approval of
the EBA.
22.   Public Hearings. Mexican legislation stipulates the holding of public
hearings dunng the EIA process. Moreover, Article 33 of the General Law
affirms the right of any person to inquire into the EIA procedures associated
with a given project. The right of privacy on the part of the developer is
protected as concerns proprietary commercial information.
23.   Experience has demonstrated the importance of holding public hearings
during analysis of an EIA. Hearings bring important contributions to the
process, even when they are held in communities cha ied by low levels of
education. Public participation leads to the improvement and democrization
of ElAs as a policy tool. Finally, it bears emphasizing that public hearings play
a useful role in building environmental awareness and commitment.
C. Assessment of SEDESOL and CNA's Capabities to Review,
Approve, and Conduct Environmental Impact Assssents
24.   SEDESOL complies with its environmental assessment responsibilities
through INE. EIA review and approval are carried out by a technical staff of
35 dominated by biologists and geographers. The staff also includes engineers
(industrial, chemical and civil), an architect, a sociologist, agronomists, and an
actuary. Because of the lack of sufficient resources, a baclrog of EIA analyses
has been accumulated. In nearly five years, SEDESOL has evaluated
approximately one thousand ElAs, while nearly two thousand more await



- 66-                         ANNE  F
Page 7 of 14
examination.' There are no water supply and sanitation projects in the backlog,
partly because CNA reached a special cooperation agreement with INE to
accelerate the process for water projects executed by CNA (available in project
files). As mentioned before, the strengthening of INE in this area is being
supported by the MEP.
25.   CNA must submit EIAs for those projects developed under its direct
responsibility in accordance with the streamlined process agreed between CNA
and INE. The process includes: (a) technical criteria to detennine type of EIA
required for different water works (Appendix I); (b) CNA presents a group of
projects to be executed with CNA's resolution indicating type of EIA requirea
and justification for the resolution; (c) INE reviews and ratifies or rejects
CNA's resolution and specifies additional (if any) information requirement; (d)
the rest of the process is the same as for all projects.  CNA  has an
administrative unit, the 'Environmental Evaluation and Monitoring' unit,
responsible for EIAs. The unit has a technical staff of 15 and a support staff
of five engaged in the preparation and monitoring of the ETAs. Geographers,
civil engineers, one economist, and a veterinarian make up the technical team.
This team is located at CNA's central offices. The task of the team is mainly
quality control, as the preparation of the EIAs is general done by consultants
under contract.  In addition, at the State and Regional levels there are
representatives of these offices with technical capabilities in EIA prepartion.
D. Technical Assistance to Participating Institutions
26.   Mexico's legislation mandating EIAs is conceptually coherent and
adequate, appropriately structuring the EIA process and integrating it with other
environmental management tools. Obviously, the successful implemention of
this system depends upon technical and operational capacity and the ability to
coordinate the work of participating institutions.
27.   As regards the technical capacity of institutions, information gathered by
the mission points to a clear need for an assistance and training program for
agencies directly and indirectly involved in the system. Merely having
professionals on staff from the various disciplines associated with environmental
assessment does not necessarily guarantee that these professionals command
expertise in different components of the EIA process (e.g., identification,
diagnosis, prognosis, mitigation, monitoring and communication).
28. Therefore, the project will incorporate funds to carry out studies to
improve EIA guidelines and to fund a training program to strengthen the EIA
2. By way of comparison, the Secretaria of the Environment of the State of So Paulo has a
tecbnical staff of 28 professionals charged with the analysis of MiAs and anoter staff of six
responsible for evaluating inquiries as to the necessity of submitting an EIA. The
Sertariat's maximum anulal capacity at current stafinmg levels is 150 EIAs and 240
* * * * * s * _ _w * * * Z e * . *~~~~~



- 67-                       ANNEX
Page 8 of 14
capacity of CNA and the WUs. Assistance for INE is also being provided
through other projects (Loan 3461-ME).
29.   The program of professional training should not focus only on the
various steps involved in the EIA process, nor on the specifics of different fields
associated with environmental assessment. More importantly, training should
convey an understanding of the different methodologies associated with
environmental assessment and their use, depending upon the specifics of each
subproject. Training should also help participants consider direct and indirect
impacts over the short and long run, as well as the feasibility of obtaining the
required information from different methodologies.
E. Environmental Assessment Roles and Capabi;lties of the Various
Agencies
30.   Responsibility for Policy-Making. In accordance with Article 120 of the
General Law, SEDESOL has authority for the environmental protection. Its
responsibilities, among others, include:
*     issue the federal water standards that regulate the discharge of
wastewater into sewerage systems, drainage basins, marine
waters or any other waterways, as well as into septic systems;
31.   Article 8 of the National Water Law grats the Secetariat of Agriculture
and Water Resources the mandate to propose national water policy to the fedal
executive. The Secriat is home to CNA, by virtue of Article 9 of the same
legislation. CNA's brief includes:
(a)   formulate the national water program;
(b)   foster the development of drining water and sewage systems;
(c)   program, study, construct, operate, conserve and maintain federal water
works;
(d)   prevention and control of water pollution and management of water
basins; and
(e)   grant concessions for water-use.
32. Responsibility for ETA Analysis. As observed elsewhere in the report,
the responsible agency for ETA analysis is SEDESOL. Article 29 of the General
Law and Article 5 of its implementing regulations specify this role for the
agency.
33. Responsibility for Permiffing. Article 119 of the General Law confers
upon SEDESOL the power to authorize the establishment of new industres that
may discharge pollutants. Responsibility for authzing industrial wasftwater
tratment facilities under federal jurisdiction also falls under the purview of
SEDESOL. The Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources issues
concessions for the use of wastewater.



- 68 -                    ANNE F
Page 9 of 14
34. Enforcenent Responsibilities. The fifth clause of Article 119 in the
General Law accords states and municipalities responsibility for overseeing
wastewater discharge in drainage and sewerage systems and forcing facilities in
violation of technical and environmental regulations to install treaument systems.
Article 86 of the National Water Law attributes to CNA enforcement authionity
in controlling pollution in waters under federal jurisdiction. Enforcement of
EIA mitigating actions is responsibility of the PROFEPA.



- 69-                        AN= 
Page 10 of 14
Appendix 1
Instructions for the Preparation of a Prior Notice
General Information
Answer the following questions in a clear and concrete manner:
1.    Name of the enterprise or organization requesting the waiver.
2.    Name and position of the person responsible for the project.
3.    Nationality of the enterprise.
4.    Mair. activity of the enterprise or organization.
5.    Address to hear and receive notifications.
6.    Chamber or association to which the enterprise is affiliated:
(a) Registration number
(b) Date of registration.
(c) Federal Tax registration number.
II.    Location and general description of the works or activities projected.
1.    Name of the project.
2.    Nature of the project (general descridtion of the project,
indicating projected capacity and required investment).
3.    Projected life span of the project.
4.    Work program.
5.    Physical location of the project. Annex diagram of plant
distribution and map of plant location, specifying:
(a) State
(b) Municipality
(c) Locality
(d) Location
6.    Legal status of lot.
7.    Required surface (ha., m).
8.    Bordering lots and activities in those lots.
9.    Civil works carried out to prepare the land.
10.   Access ways (maritime and land).
11.   Linkage with norms and regulations regarding land use in the
corresponding area.
12.   Labor requirements.
13. Works or support services to be employed in the different
stages of the project.
14.   Altemative sites for the development of the project.
m.   Description of the process
1.    Material and substances that will be used in site preparaion,
construction and maintenance of the work or activities
projected. List and indicate volume.



- 70 -                        AN_ F
Page 11 of 14
2.    Equipment required for the different phases to prepare the site,
constructon, operation and maintenance of the work or activity
projected. List and indicate instaUlled capacity.
3.    Natual resources that will be exploited in the different phases.
Specify.
4.    In the case of a transfonnation industry and/or extato:
(a) Indicate substances or materials that will be used in the
Process.
(b) List final products.
5.    Source of electricity or fuels.
6.    Water requirements and source of supply.
7.    Waste that will be generated in the different phases of the
project and final disposal of the products.
(a) Air emissions
(b) Wastewater emissions
(c) Solid wastes
(d) Noise emissions
(e) Other.



- 71 -
Page 12 of 14
Appendix 2
Criteria for Deciding Type of EIA for Water Works
Agreed Between CNA and INE
A. Prior Notice
1.   To qualify for prior notice a given water work must satisfy the
following criteria:
(a)   Incorporation of areas to agricultural activities for extensions
between 101 and 1,000 ha.
(b) Construction of a reservoir with an impoundment area of up to
1,000 ha.
(c)   Extraction of water with volume varying between 10 and 50%
of the annual recharge or of the maximum normal level of
water of a natural water body.
(d) Use of water resource within the same river basin.
(e)   Works to improve the technology in rain-fed areas without
requiring drainage.
B. EA
2.   The works would have to faU in one of the following categories.
(a)   The project would incorporate land to livestock activities or
would change the exploitation pattern (from rain-fed to
irigated), with an area above 1,000 ha.
(b) The project included the construction of a reservoir with an
impoundment area of more than 1,000 ha.
(c) The project imports water from a river basin different from its
natal recharge area.
(d)   Work to improve that technology in rain-fed areas requiring
drinage.
(e)   Extraction of water with volume more than 50% of the amua
recharge or of the maximum normal level of water of a naurl
water body.
(t)   The project conminates or inhibits the recharge of aquifers
that are water supply sources.
(g)   The project is loated at a distance less than 1 km. from the
maximum level of highest tide.
(b)   The project implies pertuaion or permanent destrtn  of
histoical or culturly valuable zone.
(i)   The project would alter the way of life and costmes of ethnic
groups living in the area.



- 72 -                  ANNE F
Page 13 of 14
C. Genera El
3.    A Genea  E1A wfll be prepared if a project is not exempted by law
(see para. 11, Annex F), fulfils one of the criteria listed above, and in
addition has some of the following characteristics:
(a)   Incorporaion of land to agriculture with extensions betwe
1,001 and 50,000 ha.
() The project included the construction of a reservoir with an
impoundment area of between 1,001 and 10,000 ha.
(c) Water transportation works less than 50 kms.
(d) Drainage works outside the benefitted area and with a length
less than 50 km.
(e) Urban water supply works that include: extraction,
transpotation and potablization.
(f)   The project implies a change in water use.
(g)   The project implies the extracton of groundwater and there is
a study that indicates possible over-exploitation.
(h)   Exempted works that are located totally or partally in a
protected area.
D. Intermediate EIA
4.    An intrmediate EIA would be required if the project has 2 of the
characterics acited above or has any of the following ch istcs:
(a)   Incorporaton of land to agriculture with extensions between
50,001 and 100,000 ba.
0b)   Ihe project included the construction of a reservoir with an
impoundment area of between 10,001 and 15,000 ha.
(c) Water transportation works less than 100 kms.
(d)   Draiage works outside the benefitted area and with a length
between 50 and 100 km.
(e)   U;ban water supply works that include: extraction,
ransportation, potabilizaton and distibuton systems.
E  Spedci  Elk
5.   A specific EIk would be required if the project has 2 of the
charactedisics cited above or has any of the following characteristics:
(a)   Incorporation of land to agriculure with extensions greater
than 100,000 ha.
(b)   The proect included the constructon of a reservoir with an
impoundment area of geate than 15,000 ba.
(c)   Water tnspora  works longer than 100 kms.



- 73                       ANNEX 
Page 14 of 14
(d) Drainage works outside the benefitted area and with a length
greater than 100 km.
(e)   Urban water supply works tiat include: extaton,
transportation, potabilization, distribution systems and
wastewater treatment.
F. Specific Studies
6.   In addition to the EIA in the corresponding modality, specific studies
would be required in the following cases:
(a)   The area affected has particular ecological conditions, such as:
- Unique flora
- Areas that are the habitat of endangered species.
(b)   The project would affect areas that are ecologically fzgile
such as:
^ Rain forest
- Swamp
^ Mangrove swamp
(c)   With regard to human settlements:
- Resettlement
- Destruction or change in areas that have recreational or
cultt -al importance for the community.
(d)   Ihe project requires the use or dischage of substances
included in the list of high risk, in such case a risk assessment
would be required.



- 74 - 
Page 1 of 2
MEICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Proposed Environmental Impact Assessment (EU) Process
Subprject        EIA Cycle         Action                    Respnibiity
C ycle_ _                               _  _ _  _  _  _  _   _ _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _   _  _
Master P1ua       Preventive Report  PrePare IP                            for ivestnt
lnforme                                    progranm            b    Rer
Preventivo- (                              plan. CNA/State monitproces.
Request Judgement       'WU submits IP to INE and requests
!  *Dictme'              Dictmn
Issue Judgement          INE issues Dictamen indicating if
*Dictamen-               EIA is required (general, intmedio
.__________  .___ _  o  especifico)
Annex             Envinmentail      Verify Judgemnt          BANOBRAS verifies Dictamen has
Meamondum         Impact Statement  'Dictamen-               been issued and what level EUA is
1ndslmtdinz       'Manifiesto de                             required (if none required cycle
IMpat                                      stops here)
Ambiental' (EIA)
Prepa  TORs              WU with orientation of CNA/State
Approve funding for EIA    BANOBRAS mcludes fuding in
subproject, if requested by WU
E1A              Prepare EIA               WU with orientatian of CNAIState
Design Std
Submit EIA               WU submits EIA to INE for
approval. CNA monitors ptoces
Approve ELA              INE must: (i) approve ELTA; (ii)
approve EIA with conditions; or
.__________  _________________    (iui) reject EIA'
Sulbproiect       ETA               Verify EIA approval      BANOBRAS verifies EIA approved
and conditions, if any
Mitigation plan  Prepare mtigation plan    WU incorporates required mitigaton
actions in subprject
Approve funding for plan   BANOBRAS icludes funing in
subprQject after technical approval
by CNA/State
1. INE has 30 days to approve general EIA. 60 days for  ,ne diaes and 90 days for



- 75 _                                        G
Page 2 of 2
iMgt                           . pla  Execute pla        WU with echnical suevision of
Exoeion                                                  CNA/State
Monitor plan           BANOBRAS maintains monitori
iDi        of comliance with
Enforce plan           PRKOFA
CNA    National Water Commission
CNAIState = CNA Gerencia Estatal (State Office)
PROFEPA = Procuradurfa Federal de Ptotecci6n al Ambiente
WU = Water Utlity



- 76-                     AM
Page 1 of 4
CMCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Water Sector olicy Letter
Mr. lewis Preston
President of the Interntonal Bank
for Recnstcton and Development
1818 H Str, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
I am writing to you in reference to the agemens currently undeay
by the World Bank Mission and the Meica authoties in chage of analyzing
the second tahe of the sectoral loan for water supply, sewea    and
sanittion.
In view of the priority given by the Mexican Government to the
provision of drinling water and sanitation services, it has been possible to
achieve significant progress, both in broadening coveae at the natonal level
and to insttional dhange and csolidain.
rithin the famework of the National Drinking Water and Sanitation
Proram, set in moion by the Presdet of Meico in May 1990, the
investments made are equivalent to 13 bilLon new pesos, including those
planed for the curent year.
Service coveage has been insed to such levels that an addiiond
populaon of 13.5 million inhabitants is now supplied with dtinking wat and
sewage services have been increased to cover 11.5 million people.
As to treatment of municipal discharges, at the begnning of this
Administration the country had the capability of tatng  14 mn/second, and
currentl this capabilit has been increased to 34 mI/second. Additional
imvestments are being processed to expand such capability to around 70
m'/second when stt-up opaions begin.
Special attention has been given to the disinfection and quaty of the
water supplied, which has resulted in significant reductions in water-bne
diseases whose origins are linked to the quality of water consumed by the
popuon.
The policies implemented in the sector have given specidal imporance tO
its strucua and institutional consoon; effats have been undertake to



- 77                      ANNEX H
Page 2 of 4
strengthen, both operationally and financially, the agencies in chare of
operating the water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems. At present, 89%
of local systems serving more tban 80,000 inhabitants are operated by
decentralized agencies; the global revenue of the systems for service charges has
increased 270% in real terms in the period 1989-1992.
It should be highlighted that the achievements of the project have been
attained through a totally decentralized execution scheme, in which the role of
Federal agencies has been limited to the reguldon, promotion and financial
support and technical assistance areas and the investments, works, operational
programs and commercial activities have been the responsibility of operating
agencies.
Mexico has new legislation with the effectiveness of the National Water
Law and the implementation of payment of fees for wastewater discharges into
bodies of water and Federal waterways as provided for by the Federal Rights
Law.
Within the frame of our Legislation, a strategy has been developed to
achieve sustainable development as to the exploitation of domestic hydraulic
resources and to this end, the objective of attaining higher efficiency and
raionaLization in the use of water, as well as to preserve its quality, is receiving
priority attention.
The Law provides a favorable frame to promote the necessary
investments in the Program by the public and private sectors; it provides greater
clarity as to the rights on the resources assigned to the cities and to the
productive sectors and provides a clear structure of responsibilities as to
payment for the use of resources, as well as to mandatory preservation of
hydraulic resources quality and of the overall environment.
With a view that State Laws be progressively more favorable to the
implementation of the Program in a decentalized manner and with scrupulous
respect to the autonomy of the States, advice and continuous assistance has been
provided to State authorities and Legislatures so as to incorporate within their
legal frameworks the enhancements necessary to promote the institutional
development of the Operating Agencies and to promote social responsibility for
fair payment of services.
In the future, it is proposed to strengthen the issues of consolidation and
decentralization in order to ensure the consolidation of the program progress
based on the increased strengthening of the operating agencies, both in the
financial and operational areas as well as in their management capabilities.
With respect to consolidation, a series of measures are proposed which
are grouped along thre lines of action. The first of these is geared toward the
strengthening of the revenue base through rate steamlining and the promotion
of metering, collection and billing schemes, which, with the possibility of



-78 -                     ANNA H
Page 3 of 4
private sector involvement, may expand the revenue base of the agencies with
the least incidence of direct investments and increase of their own staff.
A second line of action is geared toward the reduction of production and
distribution costs through the increase of the systems' -energy efficiency,
reduction of leaks and the improvement of the hydraulic operation of distribution
networks.
Additionally, we propose to continue with the strengthening of
management capabilities through training of staff and operators, and the
implementation of planning and cost accounting systems, as well as
fmiliarization with the different financing and technical support tools available
to the agencies within the framework of the national program.
The subsidy schemes through which the Federal and State Governments
support specific components of the program have been reviewed, emphasizing
support for investments in sewerage, sanitation, water and environmental
quality, in view of the priority given to these aspects. On the other hand, the
;ignificant increase in the agencies' revenues facilitates their increasing
willingness to finance their operational expenses and investnents.
It is the policy of the Program that investments in treatment plants for
municipal discharges, for cities of more than 80,000 inhabitants, be undertken
with pnivate investments in terms of 'turnkey" schemes for the construction of
the facilities and that the private sector itself undertake their operation for
periods between 10 and 20 years. This financial promotion scheme presently
constitutes the main tool for investment in treatment of discharges at the national
level.
The policy to promote pzivate involvement is based in that investments
and operaional costs caried out by the entrepreneurial sector are recupeated
through payment for services provided at competitively established rates, with
a view to disengage the public sector from financial commitments made by
investors to execute their projects.
The new legislation strengthens the authority of the National Water
Commission, its regulatory power and its promotional function. It is also
established as a unit to manage the hydraulic resources, administration by
Basins, and mechanisms are defined for intersectoral agreements promoting
public involvement in domestic hydraulic resource planning and rational use.
The new legislation supports the establishment of fair prices for the use
of hydraulic resources as well as market mechanisms to transfer rights among
sectrs and groups of users, thus constituting an effective policy tool that
promotes a new social behavior as to the use of hydraulic resources and to the
conservation of its quality and that of the environment.



- 79 -                       -AM
Page 4 of 4
Specific criteria are also incorporated in the new legiation with respect
to deceal   admiiston of water supply and sanitation services, as wel
as to prvate sector involvement boffi in terms of investment as well as
operational responsibilities.
Consistent with the decentaliztion policies adhered to by CNA, at
present it only manages directly less than 2% of the total resources channeled
to the Program at the national level. This reduced proportion of the eese has
been of great significance to maintain and increase the investment dynamics,
thus it will continue to be a fundamental tool of CNA participation in the
development of the Program.
With a view  to strengthen the coordination mecanisms of the
partcipation of Federal agencies in support of the Program and of the Oper
Agencies themselves, new agreement tools prior to the implementationof suies
and follow up of results and recommendations of the same have been proposed
as background and follow up of studies and projects in such a way that they
planned in a more timely manner within the programs of the agencies the
resources for the execution of investments according to their order of priority.
We thank you for your attention to this letter and take this opporuity
to reiterate our sincere appreciation.
Sincerely,
(Translated from Spanish)



- 80 -                     ANNE I
Page I of 9
MCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANrrATION SECTOR PROJECT
National Program for Water Quality Improvement
A. Water Pomlon Control Pe-CNA
1.    Water polution control has been a key objective of water resources
planng n Meico over the past two decades.  Many key studies and
insutional development actities were carried out in the early and mid-1970s
under two UNDP projects: the Bank-executed Naonal Water Reurces Plan,
and the PAHO-executed Environmental Pollution Control Project These studies
served to identfy the most heavily polluted nver basis and the main sources
of pollution including both municipal and indusial discharges, and agricultural
runoff. While successive control strategies were formulated and reguations
promulgated by each new administration, the effective implementation of control
and enforcement programs was hampered by frequent institutional changeors
and fragmentation of responsibilities and resources.
2.    The 1973 Water Pollution Prention and Control Law was based on a
three stage strategy. The firt stage required the registation of al wasewater
discharges from all sources, established discharge standards for five basic
parmeters to be applied universally, required dischargers not in compliance
with the basic parameters to prepr and submit preiminary engineering report
with plans for meeting the standards, and required industies discharging into
municipal sewers to pay fees corresponding to their share of the cost of
treatment of the combined effluents. The second stage called for al dischargers
to constuct the control works proposed in their prelinry engineerig reports
so ihat at the end of three years from registration all discharges would receive
pnmary treatnent as a minimum. The third stage was to canry out river basin
studies (basin by basin in order of prionty based on severity of pollution) to
establish individual effluent standards (CPDs - condiciones particulares de
descarga) for all dischargers in the basin so as to meet established in-stream
standards for predominant water uses. This approach did not result in
significant improvement in water quality, primarily because of the difficulty in
setting individual discharge standards based on complex studies, the
shortcomings of the uniform primary teatment policy, and the failure to
implement key provisions such as the establishent of industrial discharge fees.
Notwithstanding major institutional developments such as the cratim and build-
up of the DGUAPC (Direocidn General de Usos de Agua y Prevenci6n de la
Contaminaci6n) in SRH and later SARH, the capacity to implement, monitor
and enforce these regulations remained inadequate for the task.



- 81 -                     ANNEX
Page 2 of 9
3.    Thetetr, changes in Federal law, culminating in the 1988 General Law
of Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection, provided for a new
approch to water pollution prevention and control w-th rensibility restng in
SEDUE. The principal changes proposed included: (a) the promulgation of
specfic industrial effluent discharge standards by major industrial groups for the
main pollutants charact c of each industry; (b) the establishment of
additional individual discharge standards in cases where the in-stream water
quality criteria for prevailing uses would still not be met; (c) specific industrial
effluent standards for discharge into municipal sewers; and (d) a discharge
permit system for all individual discharges conditional on meetng the applicable
standards or the presentation of a plan for coming into compliance. All n=
indusil plants were required to Iu1eet these standards as soon as they began
operations. Still, litte progress was made in implementing this strategy, as is
evidenced by the statistics of the period: by 1986, only 65 percent of the urban
population was connected to sewer systems, and the total instaUled capacity for
wastewater etmnt was on the. order of 15 pement of sewered effluents for
municipal discharges and 9 percent for industrial discharges. Furthermore,
plants tended to be of very smai capacity and geographicaly scattered, and had
lttle impact on water quality. In addition, most of the plants were not
functioning properly, the effective capacity wac much lower, probably closer to
5-10% of total effluent discharge. Enforcement was still a major problem, and
monitoring capacity was reduced by comparson to the earlier decade.
B. The CNA Strategy
4.   In 1989 the National Water Commission (CNA) was created, as an
agency of SARH, with the mandate to be the federal agency with responsibility
for water administration. Ihe role of the Ministry of Social Development
(SEDESOL) was limited to provision of grants for sector investments, to issue
the official Mexican water standards and to evaluate environmental impact
assessments through the Insnwo Nacional de Ecologfa M . All other aspect
of water management are the responsibility of CNA, the most impnt are: (i)
to formulate, update and implement the National Hydrological Plan; (ii) to
ensure that all water programs are coherent and that sufficient resources are
allocated to the execution of such programs; (iii) to promote and support the
development of water works; (iv) to preserve and control water quality and to
administerriver basins; and (v) to promote the efficient use and conseaton of
water in all phases of the water cycle. The functions of technology development
and training are delegated to another SARH entity, the Mexican Institute for
Water Technology (IMTA).
5.   In May 1992, responsibility for enforcing water effluent discharge
standards was transferred from the extinct Ministry for Urban Development and
Ecology (SEDUE) to CNA. To fulfiL t  new responsibility, CNA has
prepate a strategy for the prevention and control of water pollution in Mexico.
The stategy which is still in draft, incorporates the results of a workshop
involvmg Mexican public and pdvate sector representatives, the final version is
expecptd to be ready by negotiaions of the Second Water Supply and Sanitation



- 82 -                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
loan and has served as the basis for a technical assistance progrm to be
suppored by that loan.
6.    The sector strategy formulated by CNA, is based on the decentraliation
of water systems within a well defined overall framework that promotes
sustainable development of water resources with emphasis on rtional and
efficient resource use and preservation of water quality. The strategy takes the
river basin as the basic unit for water management. At the basin level, quality
and quantity issues for all users are consid_-red including conjunctive surface and
groundwater development, municipal and industrial water supply and waste
management, and agricultural uses. Its implementation is based on specific
programs aimed at:
(a)   water quality monitoring and assessment;
(b)   development of effluent standards and discharge permits;
(c)   strengthening of the financing system;
(d)   development of sanitation and treatment infrastructure;
(e)   river basin pollution management; and
(f)   strengthening the sector's institutional capacity with emphasis on
enforcement based on a well designed self-reporting system.
7.    To implement these programs the Government plans to rely heavily on
private sector participation. CNA is considering implementing a laboratory
tfication and quality assurance program, whereby CNA would play a
supervisory role and sampling analysis would be done by certfied private
laboratories. The private sector is also expected to play a very important role
in infrastructure development; it is already actively participating in the
financing, construction and operation of wastewater treatment plants but this
could extend to water supply and eventually to the whole water supply and
sanitation system. Private financing of treatment plants under BOT schemes is
estimated at some US$350 million over the period 1993-94. Private sector
assistance in improving managemeit systems and training is also envisioned.
One imporant issue that is being addressed is to ensure that the private sector
is given the appropriate incentives and is subject to adequate regulations to
ensure that the efficiency gains are materialized. To this end CNA has prepared
model contracts and supports WUs in the design of bidding process. A brief
description of the programs is presented below.
8.    Water guality monitoring and assessment. Water quality monitoring was
inidated in the 1970s, the current network has 739 stations supported by 27 state
and 7 regional laboratories. However, there have been a number of problems
that have limited the usefulness of the data generated, in particular, the type of
infomation collected has been inadequate for water quality assessment and the
reliability of the data has been low partly because of lack of a syseamatic conol
in the quality of the laboratory analysis of samples. To overcome these
problems, the monitoring network will be redesigned, the private sector will
take an important role in laboratory analysis and the data will be better
organized and will be made available to the public. It is envisioned that CNA



- 83 -                    ANI
Page 4 of 9
could retain 6 refence labortries, and that tie rest of the laboratories that
now belong to CNA could be concessioned and/or privadzed to jump-stat
private sector partcipation. CNA would retain responsbiity for verf     the
quality of the analysis and  reonsibility for monitonng surface and
groundwater, and agncultural run-off.  CNA  will engage internationa
consultants to: redesign the monitoring network and the information system, and
to develop the labortory cerfication program.
9.   The implementaton of the redesigned monitoring network will be
phased-in by rver basin and aquifers, starting with those of hight  prionty.
Pirst would be the border area and other prionty basn and aquifers and then it
would be gradually implemented in other parts of the country.  The
impmentation of the monitoring network will be followed by special sudies
at the basin and aquifer level to assess water quality. Ihe information generated
by the monitoring network will also be available to the public at large, and will
be linked to a Geographical Infonnation System, which is a program to
disseminate water quality information.
10.  Development of effluent standards and dischge emits. The current
system is standards and discharge permits involves:(a) the issuance of official
Mexican standards, is the responsibility of INE swtich presides over technical
committees (CNA participates in all water related standards); (b) the Secetaiat
of Health issues standards for drinldng water (CNA again pardcipates in the
corresponding committees); (c) CNA issues Declaros of Clasificatio of
Water Bodies which specify the use and water quality goals of water bodies
which determine the parameters and mawimum limits for all discharges; (d) the
issues of source specific discharge standards which are part of the discharge
permit and are a result of considering (a) and (c); (e) the issuance of CPD
by the Water Utilites to discharges to the sewer system based on the General
Law and the official stadards.
11.  The CNA proposes the peparation of norms that are critical and are yet
to be issued such as the handling of sludges, and the establisment of a system
that will simplify and accelrate the issuance of CPDs. CNA also plans to play
a very important ro!e in assisting WUs in the issuan' e of CPDs. CNA is
currently engaged in a study that would allow the issuatu e of udefaultu CPDs
based on a set of minimum parameters that can be quicldy developed to classify
different bodies of wat. The system would take into acoount the costs of
compliance and would allow a consultation process with the enterprises subject
to the CPDs.
12. Tne issuance of permits has in the past been the stumbling block of the
control strategy. New developments will assist the effective im ntation of
the schemie. One such developments is the "Regism Pablkco de Derechos de
Agua (the Public Registar for Water Rights introduced by the Water Law of
December, 1992'.  This regstry will contain the deeds of concession,
1. For a m=7 of de law sm AmC.



- 84 -                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 9
assignment and permits. Any person will have access to the registry. The
implementation of the registry will be through the UT(udo Unico de Concesi6n'
(Single concession title). A concession title will contain information not only
on the quantities of water used but also on the water discharged, indicating the
point of dischage and the quality of the effluent. In the past concessions were
issued by the President, this authority has been delegated to the CNA President
who in tum has delegated the authority to the Regional and State level CNA
delegates. In addition, to delegating this function at the State level, CNA has
developed a strategy to issue permits to the largest industial discharger (9% of
the discharges generate 97% of the discharge volume), to discharges that are
highly polluting and to those located in the 20 priority basins. At the WU level
a special assistance program is being developed.
13.   Strengthening the financing system. In 1991, to improve the effectveness
of pollution control the Govemment introduced water discharge charges as its
first attempt to apply market-based instruments to control pollution. The Ley
Federal de Derechos en Matena de Agua (Federal Water Charges Law),
establishes pollution charges applied to all discharges in excess of those set by
the applicable standards, the charges take into account the volume of discharge,
its content of COD and suspended solids, and regional water scarcity. Although
the charges do not consider the level of toxicity, it should be noted that they are
being applied to both industries as well as municipalities discharging in federal
waters. The law provides a grace penod of up to 24 months if the polluter
demonstrates that it will takle actions to comply with the law. The enactment
of this charges law has prompted some 200 public enterprises, large
municipalities and many private industries to begin to establish water treatment
acilities. Only 500 enterprises (mainly hotels, beverage companies and
tanneries) paid the fee, and collections amounted to only US$ 5.6 million. The
charges are a good initiative. However, the design should be reviewed to
sepamte charges from compliance with standards and to take into account the
assimilative capacity of the receiving body, and more efforts should be devoted
to its enforcement. The Government plans to carry out a study to idenify
options and to draw a plan of action to address these issues.  The
implementation of this study will be part of the annual reports on the NPWQI.
14. The strategy envisions the redesign of the pollution charges talding into
acwount the quality of the body of water, improve the coordination between the
charges and the CPDs taking into account other parameters, charging for all the
volume of pollution independendy of compliance with the CPDs. The
development of the Public Registrar for Water Rights, will help identify the
polluters and implement the charges. Furthermore, the system based on self-
reporting by the enterprises thereby reducing the burden on the CNA. The
strategy also envisions studies to identify sustainable sources of funding for
environmental improvements.
15.  Develtpment of sanitadon and treatment infrastructure. The program
envisions the continuation and decentralization of the 'Agua Limpia" (Clean



-85 -
Page 6 of 9
Water) Program, establish the elimination of "patogenos" in water used for
irrigation, organize community participation in the protection of water sources.
The program also envisions the provision of water supply and sewerage to 3
million people per year, increase in wastewater treatment capacity and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, promote water recycling, promote
industrial treatment and pre-treatment. Specific treatment targets have been
formulated and are now being revised, because the original targets were
considered too ambitious.  The actual targets will be available during
negotiations.
16.   River basin pollution management.  This program is based on an
integrated approach to water quantity and quality management at the dver basin
level. It forsees the need to complement wastewat treatment with activities
aimed at the integrated conservation of the hydrological system (river basin or
aquifer), including water and soil conservation, control of water vegetation,
improvements in the operation of the infrastructure and community participation.
This integrated approach has been applied to the Lerma-Chapala Basin (see
below) and is mandated in the National Water Law.
17.   The hydraulic program will be based on river basin management and the
establishment of River Basin Councils. The CNA is currently updating regional
indicative hydraulic programs and it is worldng in the establishment of the River
Basin Councils of the rio Bravo and Valley of Mexico. CNA plans to develop
river basin studies starig with priority basins and to implement river basin
councils in all priority basins. The water quality monitoring and assessment,
and the discharge permits programs described above will be aimed at supporting
river basin management, and thus implementation will begin shordy in the
priority basins.
18.   The control of non-point source pollution will be part of river basin
management. Special efforts by IMTA with the assistance of foreign experts is
envisioned to develop appropriate environmental standards and to identify areas
where the use of certain fertlizers and pesticides may be restricted to protected
water resources.
19.   The use of Environmental Impact Assessment will also be an important
tool to achieve improvements in water quality. All investments will be subject
to EIA and actions to mitigate negative impacts are being incorporated.
Nevertheless, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of WUs to prepare ELAs
and to implement mitigating actions.
20.   Strengthening the sector's institutional capacit  with emphasis on
enforcement based on a well designed self-reportng system.   The
implementation of the programs described above require strengftening the
institutional capacity of CNA at central, regional and state levels, in the areas
of technological development, training, information systems and communication.



- 86 -
ANNEXI
Page 7 of 9
21.  Technological development is needed in the areas of wastewate
tFatment, treatment and disposal of sludge, and "combate de malezas".
Tlining in water quality inspection, monitoring and assessment, laboratory
analysis, design and operation of treatment systems. At the same time a
certfication programs to develop: inspectors, laboratory analyst and treatment
plant operators is envisioned. To develop these progamms CNA will seek links
with academic institutions of the states and municipalities. An information and
communication system will be developed to inform the public on the problem
of water pollution, on the rights and obligation of water uses, and on the
different programs that are being implemented.
C. The Lema-Chapala Basin Compact
22.   The Lerma-Chapala basin had long been singled out as having the most
aCute water quality and quantity problems in Mexico. In April of 1989, the
CNA, the Federal Government, the Govemors of the states of Guanajuato,
JaLsoo, Mexico, Michoacan and Queretaro, and three major parastatals in the
basin entered into a coordination agreement to carry out a joint program of
integted water resources development in the Lerma-Chapala basin. The
compact's objectives for Phase I (1990-92) were to:
- preserve water quality and control pollution;
- manage the use of both surface and ground waters;
- promote the efficient use of water; and
- nmaage and conserve drainage areas and rivers.
23.  Institutionally, a consultative council was set to overee the compact,
evaluate achievement of its objectives, and provide follow-up at the policy level.
A technical working group was also formed to formulate an action plan (to be
approved by the consultative council) and monitor and evaluate its
implementation, with the regional CNA office acting as technical secretariat.
24.  With regard to water quality management, the specific objectives set for
Phase I were: to reduce waste loads to the Lenna river by 50 percent; and to
reduce waste loads to Lake Chapala by 65 percent. To achieve these objectives
the following actions were agreed:
(a)  the construction of 48 municipal wastewater treatment plants;
(b)   specific investment programs by the partcipating parastals for
recycling wastewater and achieving their respective CPDs;
(c)  increase of water tariffs to recover the reent costs of
treatment;



- 87 -                    MM    I
Page 8 of 9
(d)   strengthening the capacity of water and sewerage utilities to
enable proper operation of wastewater treatment plints; and
(e)   building up the capacity of the regional office of CNA for
planning, monitonng and enforcement acvities including
implementing the system of discharge pemiits and effluent taxes.
25.   By mid- 1993, 33 of the municipal wastewater treatment plants have been
built and are in operation, construction has been completed of another 3, and
construction of the remaining 12 should be completed by year's end. The Phase
I targets for municipal treatment represent an installed capacity of 3,700 lps at
an investment cost of N$260 million. Most of the plants have been financed by
a mix of federal and state construction grants, but several of the larger plants
have been built with private financing through a concession contract for the
operation of the plants. The parastatals have also met their investment targets.
Imnprovements in water quality have been observed both ii the Lerma River and
in Lake Chapala, and CNA is developing a water quality model to help assess
the overall impact and plan future actions.
26.  Given the apparent success of the Lerma-Chapala basin compact, a new
cooperation agreement was signed in January of 1993 to extend the compact
aaother two years, increasing actions in other key areas sucb a grour.d water
management, and including a second phase of investments in municipal
wastewater treatment plants. Phase II commits the participating federal, state
and local governments to construct an additional 52 treatment plants and expand
the capacity of 5 existing plants. In all, installed capacity would increase by
10,250 lps with a corresponding investment of N$672 million. Increasing
emphasis is also being put on industrial discharge control and on non-point
pollution loads.
27.   The Lerma-Chapala compact has served to demonstrate in Mexico the
importance of an integrated approach to nver basin management mcluding water
quality. It has shown that by concentrating and coordinating investments
significant beneficial impacts can be achieved. The Lerma-Chapala basin also
provides an oppornity to put in place and test all elements of a water pollution
control program, including institutional, legal, technical, financial, regulaty
components as well as economic incentives such as the use of effluent taxes.
Additional evaluation studies of this expenence will be useful for transfer to
other priority basins, giving particular attention to a balanced strategy and least
cost solutions.
28.   Other highly polluted river basins have also received attention during the
past four years, and major investments have been in municipal wastewater
treatment plant construction. These efforts should also be evaluated and a new
pnioitiaion determined for future investment programs as conditions in cunrent
prionty basins improve. Basin studies should be updated and expanded. CNA
is curently carrying out a study to update the 1982 river basin ranldng by
pollution loads, talkng into account changes in levels of economic activity and



- 88 -
AN-    I
Page 9 of 9
investments in wastewater treatment. Once the rating is updated, a program to
develop nver basn studies will be drawn.
D. Bank Support
29.  The Bank will support the implementation of the strategy through
technical assistance to CNA and by fumding investment to expand sevice
coveage.



- 89 -                         AN.k X
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Water Pollution: River Basin IRanlIdng
BOD            BOD          ROD Total
River Basin    Vome Waste        Municipal      Ibdustial       Thousad
Water m3/soc,     Thousand        Thousand      Tos/yp
__________    Tons/year           Tons/yea
I Parnoo                  43.9          296.6           293.6          590.1
2 LrmaS.                  18.7           114.9          205.1          319.9
3 San Juan                 9.9           49.3            86.2          135.5
4 Balsas                   8.6           43.7            76.7          120.4
S Blanco                   51             7.2           109.2          116.5
6 Papaloapan               4.1            6.7           106.4          113.1
7Cuiac                     3.6            6.5            79.1           85.7
|8 coatnuoacos             7.9            5.7            76.7           82.4
9 Fuerte                   2.5            2.4            62.0           64.4
10Jamapa                    1.4            6.7            39.4           46.1
11 LA Antigua               1.7            4.3            36.4           40.7
12 Guayalejo                1.4            1.4            32.1           33.6
13 Orijalva                2.1            10.1            14.4           24.5
14 Nazas                   1.9            12.0            11.7           23.6
15 Coahuayana              1.1             2.7            20.0           22.7
16 Armaeuia                1.1             4.2            18.7           22.9
17 AMECA,                  1.0             2.1           20.5            22.7
18 Concaos                 2.4            10.6            11.5           22.1
19 Tijuana                  1.4           10.5             8.7           19.2
20 Tehmantepec              0.8            0.0            16.8           16.8
TOTAL                     120.6          597.6          1325.2         1923.0
NATIONAL
Note: Figures rounded
BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand



- 90 -AN
Page 1 of 6
MEXCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANItATION SECTOR IPROJECr
Guidelines for the Preparation of Master Plans
Oneof the key conditions of the ongoing project was that a feasibility study
would be prepred, for each proposed investment component, in acordance
with agreed upon guidelines for preparation of master plans. Duing the
exeution of the project, these gudelinesi were reviqed by CNA with the
assistance of international consulting engineers. The revised guidelines are
satisactory to the Bank, with some minor comments to be incorporated in the
final verion. The existence of a master plan prepared according to these
guidelines is one of the conditions of eligibility for subloans under the proposed
project. The key elements of a Master Plan are:
1.   Inutmd-,tion
2.    Evaluat. .n of Present Conditions
3.   Improvements to Existing System and Assessment of Future
Needs
4.    -ecommendati'ns to Address those Needs
S.      onmentl Impact Assessment
6.    Financial Analysis
7.    Economic Analysis
8.    Findings and Specific Recommendations
9.    Documents to be Submitted.
1.   Introducion. This section reviews: (a) the need to prepare Master
Plans, the evolution of the planning efforts from the earlier feasibility plans to
a more comprehensive and stuctred system; (b) the legal and regulatory
fiamework for the water sector, (c) the key elements of a Master Plan (MP); (d)
the objectves and goals of the MP; and (e) the key tasks in preparing the MP.
2.    Evaluation of Present Conditions. This section provides a complete
description of the existing conditions of the system, including:
(a) location, physical characteristics, climate, hydrology and geology,
poverty index, and previous pbnning studies;
(b) socioeconomic conditions identifying the different residential,
commercial and industr  areas in the system and analysis of how the
present situation relates to the urban planning scenarios projected by the
local authorities;
1. 'Gua pama Ia Elaboraidn de Pnes Matos pam el Mejomieato de los Smvicios do
Agus Po"le, Alcntjlado y Samiento, Vesida Coria", 1993, pae  by CNAa
Gazcis de Apoyo a la CousoLidwcift de Organisam Opeadomu'.



-91-                      ANNEX K
Page 2 of 6
(C) Demand analysis for water supply. The evaluation of a municipal
water supply or sewerage systm should sut with an analysis of existing
coverage levels and type of service provided as well as per capita and
aggregate consumption and production volume. The demand analysis
should treat the following aspects in detail:
(i)   Existing coverage levels and type of service provided (total
population, population served, number of house connections,
standpipes, septic tanks, etc.);
(ii) Water consumption (based on house connections), preferably
broken down by main users (domestic, commercial, industrial,
official, etc). Metered consumption. Estimated unmetered
consumption;
(iii) Water production. Metered production. Estimated unmetered
production; and
(iv)  Estimates of unaccounted-for water (UFW). UFW is defined as
the difference between production and metered consumption.
(When consumption is not metered this factor cannot be
ascertined with an acceptable degree of accuracy.)
(d)   Demand analysis for sewerage and sanittion would be based on
a percentage of the water supply consumption;
(e)   existing water resources both surface and groundwater;
(f)   inventory of existing infastructure including an engineering
assesnt of the main existing components of the system (main physical
dimenson, materials, condition, reliability, and capacity). Major
components include: 2
(i) WNater Supply:
Surface Intake facilities
Wells
Transmission pipelines
Treatnent plants
Disinfection ficilities
Storage tanks
Distribution network
Booster Pump stations
2. Wis list is indicative and should be modifietd in accordance wth e pecifficgap_
n4 oen lO;w



- 92   -     ' 
Page 3 of 6
(ii)   SewX  53=
Collecdon pipe system
Collwtors and intercepors
Pumping stations
Outfl
Treatment plants
(g)   water utlity organization including: (J) legal condition; (ii)
personnel; (iii) areas served; (*v) planning department; (v) operons
deqartment; (vi) commercial department; (vii) flnancial department; and
(viii) adminisraive support; (h)  nvionmentl impact of eWistIg
strucues; and (1) a sunmary of the key findings and of the immediate
needs to be addressed.
3.                to EMS=         and Asmen of         Need. Tbi
is one of the main sections of the MP, where the acdons ruired to im
the existing infrastrue and the servic  povided will be identified. An
inteal planning concept will be followed for any new addition to the system.
(a) Rebabilitato adsdng =Mm =   The first stp in the pmcess
is assessing the feasibility of rehbilitating the system's components to
bring them up to their optmal capacity at a cost usua[ly lower than that
required to consmuct a new fcility.
0b) Optimal Expansion of System's Compo. In drmining the
optmum invesunent expnsion plan (i.e., the least-cost solution), the
following aspects should be taken into account:
(i)   All investment works sbould be built or epded as late as
posble, as determined by the demand prqecdon and the existing
capacity of the component under analysis.
(ii)   Faceiities shoud be ized so as to minimiz  idle capacity.
Seval models are available to detemine the optimum size and
squecing of inestments.
One model often used to determine the opmum size af water and
sewerage works is based on the observation that these works preent
economis of scale and assumes a linear demand grwth (a consvative
assumption). Based on a discount rate of 12% and average economy of
scale factors, the following design pedods are recommendedi
3. Can fmtic cm be exotmd as C($) - LQ.a whm C ($) upze-eIts the do ihvutm
cot, k a contant, Q capaci and eaonomy of ss hSct.



- 93-                         -
Page 4 of 6
Intake works                         20 years
Deep wells                           10 years
Transsion pipelines                  15 years
Distribution system                  15 years
Water treament plants                10 years
Storage tanks                        10 years
Pumping stations; civil works        20 years
Equipment                            10 years
Sewerage pipe systems                20 years
Sewage treatment plants              10 years
Design periods greater than those indicated or for components not shown
should be justified by a detailed analysis. Financial constraints may
justify the use of shorter design periods.
4. Recommendatifos to Address those Needs. To determine the optimal
expansion program of a water supply and/or sewerage system, an analysis of all
tecnnically feable alternatives should be made and the most promising ones,
particularly rehabilitation works, costed out (capital and operational costs) and
compared on the basis of discounted total costs on a present value or equivlent
annual bars. Ite one with the lowest cost should be selected. The discount
rate to use is 12%. A sensitivity analysis is recommended when altenatives
present similar value or annual costs; this car help in the selection of the best
altemaive.
It should be remembered that only economic costs enter into the calculations.
Costs should be expressed in constant prices; e.g., inflation is not tkn into
account. Financial and transfer costs such as interest, depreciation, and Wm
should not enter into the calculations. Moreover, economic costs to be included
are the incremental investnent, replacement, and operational costs assodated
with the component. These costs are determined on the basis of an analysis of
the situation -with' and uwithout- the project, which is not necessarily the same
as Obefore" and "after* the project.
Investments related  to  institutional strengtening  programs, such  as
improvements of commercial systems, cadastal, and system surveys, training
programs, etc. do not need to be justified on the basis of a RR. As a pmrxy,
benefits are to be measured, when applicable, by tariffs and other direct
ontnbutions from the user based on the rates in effect in the first year the
subloan becomes effective. Savings obtained by an action such as pos nt
of investments and reducdon in operating costs, can be consdered as benefits.
When these rates are programmed to increase over time it would be appropriate
to also calculate the RR using, in every year, the rates that are expeced to be
appLied then.
Under cetain circumstances, it is advisable to determine the sensitivity of the
RR to a given benefit or cost parmeter. The benefit or cost parameter(s) to



- 94                     ANNEXK
Page 5 of 6
wbich the RR is most sensitive should be folowed closely dunng poect
constvction. An adverse change in any of these parameters should trigger a
reviw of the project and, if necessry, the action or component should be
modified to ensure that maximum net benefits continue to accrue.
For all main investment components included in a subloan, it is necesMry to
devlop uiit costs and tanible monitoring indicators that can be easily followed
during project xcution. These indicators should be routinely used during
project execution as control deces to ensure that all investments will produce
the intended results and remain cost effective. Unit cost indicators are also
intended to create a cost data bank to be used to improve cost estimates in future
subprojects and to help identify cost-effecttve and replicable progrms.
5.   Eonmental Imac Am              All investmet components will be
screened to detemine the degee, if any, in which potentia enviromental
mpacts may occur. This wil be accomplished by prepan  environmental
pventie reports 1o these imvestment components. These reports will be
submittd to INE for its official rking on enviromentl impact.  Most
ivestment components are lky to require no action at all or only a limited
envronmental analysis. There may be projects that requine formal EAs and
atons to prevent or mitgate adverse environmental effect  These additional
suxdies are not par- of the master plan but will have to be completed prior to
nncing their coesponding investme  components. EAch assessment will
include among others an evaluation of:
(a)  its policy, legal and administive framevrk;
(b)   deied  descziption  of the  subproject and  of releant
environmental condios;
(c)   analysis of positive and negaie impacts likely to result from the
subproject's compneats including its operaton;
(d)   description of construction techniques and materals to be
utilized, durtion the construction and life expectancy of the
project;
(e) significant adverse environmental impacts on aquifirs and surfice
waters; and
(f)  impact on public health and quali of lvig for area resdentL
6. Financial Analysi. The objective of this section is to determine the
financial feasibility of an ivestment component taking into consideration any
federal and state grants available based upon the poverty inde   of the
4. ndic de M        ass inatad in the& MuUnioodeOpcidn pm d
ft-  --_ 3  A    ..    .d..L.... A I --- &1.LA-6



-95 -                    AM
Page 6 of 6
municipality and the type of subproject, and the intemal cash generation (ICO)
capacity of the water utility. For infrastructure subprojects, the WU has to
contribute with an average ICG of 20% (SAR - paras. 2.16 through 2.20)
7.    Economic Analysis. The objective of this section is to determiine the
economic return of an investment component. The analysis serves to detemine
the net present value, intnal rate of return and the cost/benefit ratio, following
the WB's methodology. In evaluating the cost/benefit ratio, incremental costs
and social and economic benefits generated by the proposed project would be
taken into consideration. (See Section 4, above)
8.    Findings and Specific Recommendations
The recommendations to address the needs identified in the MP will be
classified  under three general categories:   inst;tutional strengthening
(Consolida6n), Infrastructure and Sanitation, and will be proritized.
9.    Documents to be Submitted.
Thne consultants will have to subnmt three progress reports and a final report to
CNA for review and approval.
(a) The first progress report will include, at least, sections 1 and 2 of
these guidelines.
(b) The second progress report will include, at least, section 3 of the
guidelines.
(c) The third progress report will include, at least, sections 4, 5, 6 and
7 of these guidelines.
(d) The final report will include, in addition to the inlbrmation
contained in the three progress reports: section 8, an executive summary,
monioring indicators for the WU, summary table of the key compones
of the MP, a preliminary EA report, TOR for the institutona
strengthening actions and TOR for the design of the infrastucture
fcilities recommended in Section 8.
Six copies of each of the progress reports and the final report will have to be
submitted, together with diskettes with the contents of the MP to be funished
to the WU and CNA.



- 96 -
CNAS4SSTj 
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
-UTlTUT*NAL STRE NOTENIO AMD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
tsI n    SoonhfithIntCNA
ACT_TY                       O-CTVS                                    RESULTS                  I947 t1994GRAND
_ _ _ _ ___ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                               _ ..LOC.CO   X .CO     TOTAL
1) SYSTEMAWEATION ToaacawatvIan .Axd dcmpubd                 S    _9tfl     of CNAs Cenbal Ofte           3V     125    tSB
Syba mh# fV*4u ofd #SS * _RpoN           k*    nd sydmLaf areas  CnWlti
e _-Sir sulK  a oolloxtorf         VWu  paeEg of hbnw  Mangs ftm VW
pmjeW   Aen moniwng.                              wae_ aopblcaPau. 50                           I
meWARMandUwar_aapandt dphan
equSipmntwml be puchsd.
2)SEOMlARAND        To suppa tmane    denees of Ca           Th bnpmaunCHftNA's pafasslu                         104    164
OONFERENCES.    CNA' sladmil stalwft cdw publie and          ceapd c yy      ipodw afpbalaffhin
intamlon related wiector.                a        tpeUbtain235aff memberso(C"
3) MASTERPLAN       Tod lmulna_t to *.imaIagad li ta        TNa hapmmont rtoup *ion acovas                       180    1SO
WORKSHOPS.         appp6culond  mam Pknas                   relaad ilh mast plan htegratlwk wid
guidelaasaekeydoarmiet*rplann            lick entroramenL ils epde   mway
5idltgmt  mastern plam                   oA 24 wan    r e itan9 of abot
4CONSOLlATlON   Tod=_eba*teCanolitan Componsobd    Th unpomenorprononal a*l1fles end                     18        0    160
WORKSHOP.          asa mangemt ool. to  rovet Watr          #etadil ttppoito leWsUsiNee.
UftyAgeniess inanial tesub and         aswela   t lipervsion of Cans_idatian
l*a pnand"  nist anivea*tves.            Crapanent enorcemet a Is petad to
wany A 24 owahapsfor ieta ling of
150 tedgCmim  of CN reio  oMc.
3) TANNG            To ahangien CNA's cqcin i          p        er                                       103    771    984
lt   ughto assance at,cpfd In duffwt     c      _nsadstlon prams. Ikis espectoi  hie 4
Aedca                                    amuubcns. am nwmabs andi o lw am
6) SYSTEMATATIN  Touiupamodesomputarsyhrom                  Thr hromwomofntfC8    indslul                31    1n      155
fwteorbompialonlzIs                      copayas  lie level of u aindegianad
genetd  bye proec                        ofces. The a*wAn ofS0  mputer wls
NdWtlo _We*q po"" bAemt
7)CF-RMTION          o prTO ide CHNA' eonalofMMces           To assuroe he flow df  2mulon fom  w        025            a25
SYSTEVS             tonpartatin     mnupot as awoeting1U1yAganestoCNA'sNaloahlkbamanucon
IDTACOU.ECTM        ld for#e retrie alad vafln df            SyauaaanditsverfliceLo  Sfuuld be
;I  m-offn proIdewdbyuarUfflsn           rfeced In a mor esoAut dase for
f CKAS t CNAMS NA* nal  amn              Bank epat I is epected tfi pcdts 40
System.                                 Sutble vehd*es
) LALEQUPENT   Tou-1engl nleMTTAsrsearWhoh           ed     Tt     prvermntaTh4TAsfhdillesto             127    507    6t3
capa*bylaaendclifaleaftfeld              ds d       e  teuc l           ad 
andsmo a   ddnid rqw drwr                degn ef   wae supl ntIs
ala fTo A's absite.                       cpectdtod eaun   btwliehe gUldein
aW speffiaslan for toe construction df
eulanand"*rcnfwtaink   acne.
S) TRA4N             To rehabtfte VTAS S capcilan cent.,    The  povmew 0of lMTAX _apcb                 207    858   1.06
CENTERS           Ib9d    e ce                    nn   ton               o    *                s
eqlpwent Aso It wvuld kIaudu ti          amderadequsbdlel. The now ple
aenabuclonid bu adpiot                   atwd_wa eabnort.calsdtA mudand
udsh 3rogionalcontrlMAftA.                whduidwaarbOantto  beesupln
B,erro*Aem=ClyadSanRoqw
respectivel. sold aso aonbAp tto
uidramatbromvemt
10) WATER QUALTY:  To p b fe bl edge sa applceon d           Thebap n  d          lCNA and  TA's capacit        1S      15
TRANWO                 uqufrl m         t     wq      .  h ac             d tD  wlr qut
: povm.To asheeti. II Isepeld
tawny   o 1        As   hwd   be
OvTn T 200 spe4alied 2elacnclm
TOTAL                     _____________                             .14   3=~ 



CNAISE.*                                                         -  97-
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                             2d
INSTITUTIONAL 51RN530HEN       AND TENNIIAL ASSTANCE SU4COUMNENTS
IasUbAUenw odseelmeatojcN
VVWQPftpmm
ACIMIf                       OUJECTIWS                              RSULTS                    ?             q GRAN
1) WATER QJAWJ TY bTo nod X Nabo Net4t t                    The hiMrvMeof "  ioamhcnsyNNn 6s
MOMORIN  STSTEM    "U"a     cnw of  ta qu                   rga     waltr quality. Mmw rMa n eA
aVd a npo     bhstnm  gmzad by600
rsimud beIau
a)WATERWAUTY          T op.upq  emelidolc  forf             30w'swlotbain                                     20    200
MONTORING            impl_eai tfetil  Natal   Sy*mtfror. 1     OOhniaminmalt  and ilab
WORKSHOPS            nI 1egsandvv*A6notwarq=*.             of wqulFt
3) WATR QJAUTY        To pm         fis med   o   i CNAs    T              p    na dm                         200    20
NFO. SVSTS           NadWllio W .on Stn. ear                     c eldbn o         p
water quality. asaIoci for conrl and  ItR S e4ecWd n cny out 30 wwuhcpa ht erdr
ea att.                               t*tCOl00CNA 4WhpaW
4) WATER QUAITY       To*en mtMCNAstapO maciy               The *irGo *ofCNft cap*t rega              192      771     3
CONSULTANtS         wilh hiniduai ccsahtfegarg &  nc      waterqu&aon&l. ktasqpestdfhme4
andrehprwm o wtedquatapect.  cou  onte             atnaandvobforeil
5) LASORATORY         To ast  the naiml snm  fwater             ntt  df te noa ssn of                 108     492    640
A| CREDITA  N        qu1ly ah sacdelann.                   aodtb  andwdfwaterqulft afta
6) L.AO ACRED0TATION    Tos lengthenCNAsNaonSwIsm           To moy out 14couseabUuio 140 evets mi              140    140
TRAINN               capacWy ab    ting of speca    in     Lab acedabon
Lab accreditton.
7) LAS uaEUPuENr      To funlih equ4mattor fe Nat"l           e Slrangofthofte N ioal RefmnG 8O0    2100  3OOO
Refein  LaR L                         L.ah
8) WATER OlUAUTY      To mdemIseUnw         &spefof         To pr.  Wa6mtawr* water                    72     208    360
REG FRAMEWORK        _w  quat.                             quaM.
9) DISCHARGE PERMITS  To **VaC hCN       ll sitonaoapaW ewiti  Thoe    utp reAfti   mid to                     300   360
TECHN                hddaooultnt. epta hi fmulaton   lbuseand diawofwter. tse2peoled
REGULATIONS          aid ronUdUc a            ,eal sp ec  to re to naional oeut
dWiagconvta6onsdvllino. as wlas
inmonoin prnwem-
10)TRA4IG OFCNA       TognC CAshsiw a=capaclt               ToaMwt20uestoaxl  32D ep,o'll                      20    2S0
COISC.  WSPECTORS    U    k tbaInng d hiped   and           lobecome _eotx nspemo
ore w for In eudwshages f esidua
ta~
11) EQUIPMENT         Toobtblacyq aiefi r                   The h       i    t  fWon                   3B     152  tSO
itigta and olofjaatefr               a                          fand fedal
12 CONSULTANIS        To   n"mn CNA%shsilia#lon             ThM Mrw*s and udat nd oipwluanW                   360    360
ASSSTANCE           capymugawr4ctindbfid        ua Ihkforto   - a ndWtnoe d
eoQuSU  toWpOiti 80  tie relaled to   rsdualwtr d      bdugs Twa c _sua
tIeMlIanoe and cnfdleoluareemwOuld  be hIred.
13)TRAINNOF WU        Topovi _deiw=since toeWab             Theslenogt of CNA:%caecthia                        320    320
DISCH   IECTORS    uItes fr em uand ctrol of                 ndbnowld l d
hiuil Teollue.Uh end, 60cures ab. 0Oahnaaas
14) TREATMENT PLANTS  Topd          assnotote Wets    Tbh A mnof CNA's captegad                               136    136
OPERATORS TRANNG  WlWdS for tfmhiig of cwt edoperas    reabeAt pats   atwugh 20 caues
of fssnenpla                          tWn40 Ipabn41
15) Wtfs TRAINING     Toprw* dev         m=ntoWdwr          Thskoian,ewtofer4nmenWasusnot                       1     81
CN B°s                 WN erMen   o        suanipact   acUMies Asms_ wvd be prvimd to o
le d for monlein acties.        Water U   .UtuugWh queed ted aa
Tw"e cosW   be nbed  om   to bUn 180
technkicans
1 CNAs TRAIN          To sengO  CNA's k&We capcIy rlad  The kmwmentofti eididologyw                           SW     360
ON EIA              toen _I*wme   assemn, etsUuh te        evw_at en NmNupecl of sub.
.sslee nof seo   ontiee math         poecft Two cornsutwd bet hdr
17) WATER QUAlTY      To cay out 20 sds on wae qualy        Thhn b    den tieediurl mor mleW          800   1.200  2.00
sw'OE.anmd anontn  andcnroofdboire.                       a  elatd to the ivicmee seladib
Ps'in1'atqwyaddlehag
tOTAL                                            . _ d2res. 
ST  _  _ _  _  _  _                   O  A                  _  _   _  _ _ _  _ _  __I_       _     11 1    -.& 



111111tl  H      i ii I:  If                                   lip 9 i
41 InK 111 l#11410 jfjH111 TJIIIN ll
t '9, 1t'  1 3' H Iif''   !iIIUI JllhII||Ip}i§9'Pll ,'9l   i  3   
'jj'               ""       'lQ 111                            oJ   4         .
ii  II'          I °I            ri aul              'Is' II_
S         .         .    .. :S                                         -
I  I  I    I                                                     3 lX,,i l    8  izt



- 99-
MEFMCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                            L
INSTIlUTIONALST RENT THENINO ANO TECHNAL ASSISTANCE SUSCOMPONE                                    Pae 4 d4
Intlittional Strengtening of DAN4SRAS
ACTMVY                       OBJECTIVES                                 RESULTS                   OC. COS XT. COS  TOTAL
______~~_                                       _  _ __        _     _    _     _ _       USS...M            USS
1) TECH TRANSFER  To ul  th eoenoes of Intenational           The saengt         ,f BANOBRAS cat h            0      228  -    3
FROM UNL            istonawoudting hte seodr.                sub-project evluatn. About 40 tegional c1bes
NSTTUT1S                                                     tedhncas woud pseipet.
2) BANOBRAS         To ensu  BANO6RA  adminisbative           The Impm emwt BNO dAM      eflicy.            37       19    St
OECENTRMALATIO  anc opeate decentrealion press               ass result of adescerdrallza*n pcess
wcugh to enforement Of mechaism          of ks day to day ae    operations Involving 
that can asse te kpementtion oft          rgia  oce Techncal assin  to set
operatam s wIder autonomous procedures    up pemautelo dperfmance eautiom
in Doewh 1W cumntdocefication            wouldls r b pvided,  ato olfor periodical
ofactivities.                             reions fthwe abow procs
3) SUtPROJCT        To shen  ANOR   daff In te                The updating of proeslonal bwiedges          350        0      360
EVALUATION          u e  ecn  ad                              f520 BANORAS` Ian bpovms
(PART ONE)          anaysis area a  teI Implemnentadon       in th cuI'e and thd  mtodolgles    W            0      223      223
*om the admirisrate and management       in sub-ojects eauat      d sWpevlslmisls
poit f viw.                              expected. To s endu aous mad dac
matna would be povd.
4) INORMATION       To *enthe BANOSRAS cuwerde in oation   To suppot the antisd ofe VW brojcb               55       37       S2
SYSTEM              stem for suppodg sbpocts analysis.       wth a database, as a coniptmentay tool
External consubnts assstae would be
5) SUBPROJECT       To      BANOB4S0     promotona           The updat  of BANOSA  peron                   360        0      3S0
EVALUATION         at         fr els d nti       new         about h nw pokics wnd suag es a
(PART TWO)         poliis and strategies. as wll as due      development irstituon or tisector. An
appicdton of  meodology for sub.         bnrovemwein efficency is expcted. 520
prdcts evaaon.                           BANOSR    staff membes would patplbe
in inlouse sem4inars
6) MIS TRANN        Tosss BANOBRASIntheprcess                To ay out the im ton relabd th t              369        0      369
(PART ONE)         dst   tscapctY cur                          engg  h cesysem, ini
intornationsystems                       the now Management_ inmon_S     System fbr
project exectdion
7) MIS EUPMEN    T improve ANOBR    Credit inmon             ToIprve te adequecy a'BANOORACcredit           73        0       73
System instsld capacity. to cany out     Irffraon System. The aqust  d                 126      506       n32
corn rehWy the admniabati  af ithe       compues and sobovar wouldbef*nanced.
ocrt  provided and t*efdlow-up of
8 MIS TRAN          To provide asstance to BANOBMS  r        To 11A Bank executive rpm  requIeta            So       so      117
ARTTWO)            tIme            ofa Magamet               for BANBRS to have an aceuraaeeLti
bhimo   Sye  adequaerth inomaon  folwuptool Exthmalconsuhnrswould be
generated bythr iectdiolL                reqdied.
%ADMINISTRATIE   To assistWOBS In il reorgantion.             The updat   f 8ANOBRAS admindsrativ          123       U4      207
RESTRUCTURN        proess Under 1*.- sub.coponesta now       and operatWoneework based en lb cent          110       57      10?
'mkstiw Manu woald be prpared.            roganztionpoce
10) ECU STAFF       To provid assistance to 8ANOLSR           To coordn  allte th i   readtoItS             283        0      253
TRANIJ fore sdttup phase and u                               pn                    SB          and   og
dcthe Eetve Cordna    Uni               the participating _ ntluos
mecentlyr crated for the folow-up of
t          -ProjeT1exa4 2on.
_________                   T OTA L                    _______________                            J        1.213    3.147



- 100 -                           b=
Page I of 6
MEXCO
SECOND WATER SUPTLY AND SANMTATION SECTOR PROJECT
Structure of Federal Govenmmet FinancEal Asistce
1.   The Government of Mexio rognizes the need to provide technical and finanal
asistace to  cipalies undaking investments to improve tir in      ture given their
increasing responsibilities and limited ihstitutiona and finanal capacity. Tagded federl
assistance to municipalites improves the ability of the neediest municpalities to povide esseatial
infWastructme sevces, address the most urgent problems of environmental degadation, and
reduce the tariff burden on the poorest.
2.   In an effort to bring transpancy to the system of federal assitance, Fedeal Goverment
agencies have agreed to use an Index of MargiSaty or Poverty Index (P1) to rank
municipalities, and allocate resources according to the rankng of such munipalities. The PI
is calculated by the Conseqo Nacional de Pobldn (CONAPO) and the Con Wdn Na4onol de
Agua (CNA) based on the most recent census figues. Tbe most recent calati , dat
January 1993, use the census data of 1990, and are published as lmllcadores Socdoecondrlcos
e Indice de Marginaci6n Mwddpa, 199Cr.
3.   Four areas, consdered to be the most important measu    of mar ii, are
measured by the PI: educational attment; housing and services; popuatio ditibuto; and
income. The variables used measue the folowing percentages:
(a)   adult illitate popation (over 15 years);
0b) adult population (over 15 years) that hasn't completed five years of prmary
education;
Housing
(c)   occupants in housing without sanitaion or drainage ficilities;
(d)   occupants in housing without electricity;
(e)   ocupants in housing without piped water;
(t)   houses thatre overcowded;
(g)   occupants in housing with dirt floors;
ranM Distfiton
(h)   population living in locaities with less than 5,000 inbabitants;
(i)   employed p latin earning up to two minimum alries.



- 101 -                           NLM
Page 2 of 6
4.    The correlaon coefficide  for each indicator in the PI, and its subsequent weght, is
shown below:
1ndicator               (>prrelog- n             Weight
(a) Lliteracy           .86376                         .12205
(b) education           .89839                         .12695
(c) drinage             .82121                         .11604
(d) elctricity          .71487                         .10102
(e) piped water         .72691                         .10272
(f) overcrowding        .75938                         .10731
(g) dirt floOrs         .87867                         .12416
(h) populaion           .65567                         .09264
(i) income              .75809                         .10712
About 32 percent of the PI is related to the provision of municipal services in water supply,
sanitation, drainage, and elecdity. Income is an important indicator, and about 11 percent of
the P for each municipality is related to the per capita income of the population in that
municpality.
5.    The PI does not explicitly include an indicator for the provision of municipal water
supply and sanitation services. Howver, the advantages of using the PI to rank municipates
in the Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project are that it identifies mcipalities that
include a high percentage of people without accass to municipal services and with low per capita
incomes. The disadvantage of using the PI are related to its Limitations. It does not distinguish
whether the underlying causes of the lack of municipal seve are a result of lack of resouces
or mismanagement It also does not differentiate between ar   within a muncipalit-
6.    Munii   tat do not have baic services, inluding water supply and sanitation
services, should be assisted to provide such services, regadle  of past reasons for failure to
delver such services. In order to address the possibility that the failure to provide improed
municipal serices is a result of the lack of mimanat, the Project provides techical
assistance to strengthen the municipality, sStng before any investments are made. Cost
recovery schemes are expected to udlize cross-subsidization of poorer areas in each municpality
from the higher income and commercial uses.
7.    Municipalitt% are anked according to the foowg criteria:
Lvel of Marnaly                 dex of
Very Low                      -2.67812 to -1.58950
Low                           -1.58950 to -0.50461
Medium                        -0.50461 to 0.04150
High                           0.04150 to 1.13059
Vry igh                        1.13059 to 2.76549
8.    The attached Table 1 shows the PI and Level of Marnality for the mu  in the
'100 Cites Program" (there are sometmes more than one municipality per city; some
municipalities, such as tourist areas, are not nked) tht will be elible for suWort under the



- 102 -
ANNEX M
Page 3 of 6
ProecL The municipalities in the Progrm  are anked as follows:
Level of MA="                 Nwnber of-MimicDiliL
Very Low                            51
Low                                 53
Medium                               2
High                                 1
Very High                            1
9.    Under the Seond Water Supply and Sanitaton Sector Project, municipalities with
poplations above 80,000 inhabitants would be digible for particion in the two phase
program, conssting of a pre-investment phase of technical assstance, and an investment phase.
10.  The mix of resources for the pre-investnent phase would be as follows:
Fiscal-   wii
I-evel fQn                                 eerre              ri
Elghand Very High       60                30                 10
MediumandLow            45                40                 15
Very Low                25                50                25
High levels of grant financing have been proposed by the Governmt to act as an incentive to
encourage municipalities to participate in the national water supply and sanitation program.
11.  In order to assist municipalities in improving their water supply and sanitation services,
both the pre-investment phase and the National Training Pam  are expected to support a
broader group of beneficiary municipalides than those which participate in the subsequent
invesment phase. Technical       or pre-investment subloans would be refinanced under
the invesment subloans for those muiiies which enter the investment phase. For the other
municipalities, the repayment peio of the technical assistance subloan would be three years.
12.   The mix of resources for the investment phase woud be as follows:
Fisca                  Mmnal
Marcdity    fMaxmm                   nmin)   imum)
H4ghand VeryHigh        40                10                50
Medium and Low          35                15                50
Very Low                25                25                50



- 103 -
Page 4 of 6
The terms of the BANOBRAS loan would be up to 10 years, with a grace period of up to three
years equivalent to the construction period, at an interest rate of CETES plus 2 percent.
13.   The mix of resources for technical assistance and investments will be reviewed as part
of the mid-term review of the project or whenever the PI is changed, in order to ensure that the
financing is non-distortionary in terms of cost and capital intensity, and is achieving its objective
of adequately reaching the poorest municipalities with fiscal grants.
Table 1
Municipalities In the 100 Cities Program
Ranked by Index of Marginality
Chiapas               iuxtla Gutierrez                295,e60y 1.564    vyHigh
Yucatan               1zamal                           21,901       0.147         High
Guanajuato            San Miguel de Allende           110,692      40.220       Medium
Yucatan               Valladolid                       42,717       -0.357      Medium
Chiapas               Tapachula                       222,405       -0.585         Low
Veracruz              Xalapa-Banderilla                22,110      -0.636          Low
Veracruz              Martinez de la Torre            103,089      -0.663          Low
Tamaulipas            Altamira                         82,585      40.679          Low
Chiapas               San Cristobal de las Casas       89,335       -0.689        Low
Tabasco               Cardenas                        172,635      -0.768          Low
Veracruz              Tuxpan                          118,520      -0.816         Low
Zacatecas             Fresnillo                       160,181       -0.833        Low
Jalisco               Lagos de Moreno                 106,157       -.840          Low
San Luis Potosi       Cd. Valles                      130,939       -0.862        Low
Mexico                Valle de Bravo                   36,135       -0.873        Low
Sinoloa               Guasave                         258,130      -0.878         Low
Aguascalientes        Jesus-Maria                      41,092      -0.895         Low
Hidalgo               Tepeji                           51,199       -0.919         Low
Campeche              Cd. del Carmen                  136,034      -0.959         Low
Veracruz              Minatitlan                      195,523       0.959         Low
Michoacan             Apatzingan                      100,926      40.968         Low
Michoacan             Patzcuaro                        66,736      40.978         Low
Queretaro             San Juan del Rio                126,555       -1.037        Low
Coahuila              Ramos Arizpe                     28,246       -1.038        Low
Nuevo Leon            Linares                          61,569       -1.054        Low
Puebla                Tehuacan                        155,563       -1.082        Low
Guerrero              Acapulco                       593,212        -1.096        Low
Guerrero              Chilpancingo                    136,164       -1.102        Low
Tamaulipas            Cd. mante                       116,174       -1.132        Low
Guerrero              Iguala                          101,067       -1.143        Low
Guanajuato            Uriangato                        46,710      -1.160         Low
Guanajuato            Guanajuato                      119,170       -1.169        Low
Tlaxcala              Sta. Ana Chiautempan             61,144       -1.196        Low
Michoacan             Jacona                           40,546       -1.213        Low
Quintana Roo          Cozumel                          44,903       -1.231        Low
Guanajuato            Salamanca                       204,311       -1.240        Low



- 104 -                            AM=iX M
Page 5 of 6
Table 1
Municipalities in the 100 Cities Program
Ranked by Index of Marginality
Navojoa                                      -124           L
Guanajuato            Irapuato                        362,915       -1.250         Low
Tanmulipas            Rio Bravo                        94,009        -1.259        Low
Hidalgo               Tulacingo                        92,570        -1.333        Low
Veracruz               Cordoba                        150,454        -1.351        LOW
Zacatecas              Guadalupe                       82,770        -1.378        Low
Hidalgo                Tula                            73,713        -1.393        Low
Campeche               Campeche                       173,645        -1.413        Low
Michoacan             Zamora                          144,899        -1.427        Low
Michoacan             Uruapan                         217,068        -1.454        Low
Sinoloa                Culiacan                       601,123        -1.461        Low
Guanajuato             Celaya                         310,569        -1.481        Low
Baja California Sur    San Jose del Cabo-San L.        43,920        -1.491        LOw
Guanajuato             Moroleon                        48,191       -1.509         Low
Sonora                Guaymas-San Carlos              129,092       -1.514         Low
Morelia               Cuauda-Oaxtepec                 120,315       -1.542         Low
Veracruz               Coatzalcos                     233,115        -1.549        Low
Sonora                Empalme                          46,017       -1.550         Low
Yucatan               Progreso                         37,806        -1.558        Low
Michoacan             Lazaro Cardenas                 134,969       -1.584         Low
Coahulla              Cd. Acuna                        56,336       -1.585         Low
Mexico                Toluca                          487,612       -1.594    Very Low
Tamaulipas             Cd. Victoria                   207,923        -1.606    Very Low
Yucatan                Merida                         556,819        -1.648    Very Low
Tamaulipas             Matamoros                      303,293        -1.655    Very Low
Oaxaca                 Salina Cruz                     65,707       -1.659    Very Low
Colima                Manzanillo                       92,863       -1.681     Very Low
Durango                Durago                         413,835        -1.683    Very Low
Guanajuto             Leon                            867,920        -1.686    Very Low
Colina                Villa de Alvarez                 37,842        -1.688    Very Low
Baja California       Tecate                           51,557        -1.711    Very Low
Tamaulipas             Reynosa                        282,667        -1.721    Very Low
Oaxaca                Oaxaca de Juarez                213,985       -1.729    Very Low
San Luis Potosi       S.G. Sachez                     132,979        -1.733    Very Low
Chihuahua             Cuauhtemoc                      112,589       -1.733    Very Low
Coahuila              Prontera                         61,450       -1.734    Very Low
Veracruz              Boca del Rio                    144,549        -1.743    Very Low
Jalisco                Cd. Guzman                      74,068        -1.748    Very Low
Michoacaa             Morelia                         492,901       -1.757    Very Low
Veracruz              Poza Rica                       151,739       -1.757    Very Low
Tlxcala                Apizaco                         51,744       -1.784    Very Low
Chihuahua             Delkcias                        104,014       -1.792    Very Low
Chihuahua             Hidalgo del Parral               90,647       -1.797    Very Low
Baja California        Ensenada                       259,979       -1.821     Vey



- 105 -                                    M
Page 6 of 6
Table I
Mucipalties in the 100 Cites Program
Ranked by Index of Marginalit
Sonora                Agua Prieta                      31            -1.830    V      wy low
Aguascaienes          Aguascalientes                  506,274        -1.833    Very Low
Nayark                Tepic                           241,463        -1.844    Very Low
Sinoloa               Mazatlan                        314,345       -1.851    Very Low
Coahufla              Piedras negras                   98,185       -1.860    Very Low
Sonora                 San Luis Rio Colorado          110,530        -1.863    Very Low
Sonora                Nogales                         107,936        -1.871    Very Low
Tamaulipas             Nuevo Laredo                   219,468        -1.871    Very Low
Baja California Sur    La Paz                         160,970        -1.890    Very Low
Coahuila               Saltdlo                        440,920        -1.893    Very Low
Qureao                 Queretao                       456,458        -1.909    Very Low
lahcala               Tlaxcala                         50,492        -1.909    Very Low
Jalisco                Puerto Vallarta                111,457        -1.910    Very Low
Veracruz              Veracruz                        328,607        -1.916    Very Low
Zacatecas              Zacatecas                      108,556        -1.918    Very Low
Veracruz               Orizaba                        114,216        -1.918    Very Low
Hidalgo                Pachuca                        180,630        -1.932    Very Low
Baja California       rijuana                         747,381        -1.978    Very Low
Baja Califonia         Mexicali                       601,938        -1.979    Very LoDW
Sonora                Hermosilo                       448,966       -1.980    Very Low
Tamaulipas            Tamipico-Madero                 272,690        -1.989    Very Low
Coahmila-Durango      Torreon-G.Palaclo-Lerdo         464,825       -1.998    Very Low
Colima                Colima                          116,505       -2.012    Very Low
San Luis Potosi       San Luis Potosi                 525,733       -2.013    Very Low
Morelia               Cuermavaca                      281,294       -2.035    Very Low
Chihlahua             Cd. Juarez                      798,499       -2.041    Very Low
Coahuila              Monclova                        178,606       -2.097    Very Low
Cihufahua             Chihuahua                       530,783       -2.181    Very Low



- 106 -
Page I of 5
MEMORANDUM OF UNDESTANDING
"Memorandum of Understanding' means a document prepared for an
Operating Agency consistng of: (i) an executive summary of the Master Plan
prepred  by the Opeating Agency indicating the priori  actons to be
undertaben in the areas of insdttional    ng, water supply, and
seweine and sanitaon, together with thdir esimated coss, epecd result,
proposed sources of financing and an estimated timetable fo their completion;
and (ii) an annex prepred annually by BANOBRAS, in a fomat consnt with
that contained in Annex A to the WSS Implementation Letter, settg forth the
specfic actions, denved from the Master Plan, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and to be implemented during a calendar year.
Attached is a sample of an Executive Summary and an Annex to the
Memorandum of Undetanding.



- 107 -
AI=X N
Page 2 of 5
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Executive Summary
(Tpical)
The purpose of this memorandum is to define the priority actions required to advance the
National Drinkng Water, Sewerage and Sanitation Program in the area served by of SIAZ&Z1,
which is responsible for operating the water supply system servicing the population of the City
of Puebla.
Based upon the Master Plan, the studies and projects carried out by both SOAPAP and
CNA, the following priority actions have been identified:
DRINKING WATER
It is necessary to increase the supply of drnking water in the short term by 1 n9/second
and the coverage to serve approximately an additional 20% of the population. Improvements
are also necessary to reduce the level of losses estimated in tfie above-mentioned studies.
SEWERAGE
We propose to increase coverage by 20% as well as to execute the construction of
collectors to convey discharges to the appropriate treatment sites.
SANITATION
To comply with current provisions on sanitation and wastewater discharges into Federal
bodies of water, it is necessary to design treatment plants with a total capacity of 3 md/second.
Their construction should be coordinated with the construction of the main collectors.
This action must be supplemented with the development of a technical assistance program
directed to the industies that currently make discharges into the system to promote their
compliance with current regulations.
INSTITUTlONAL STRENGTHENING (CONSOLIDACION)
It is necessary to increase metering, billing and coLection to give SOAP   an income
base that guarantees its financial consolidation, and allows it to generate and use its own
resources in the investnent programs and institutional strengthening of its Organizton.
1 Autonomous Water Utility, serving the city of Puebla,
selected as an example of a typical Memorandum of Understanding.



- 108 -
ANBX N
Page 3 of 5
In order to increase its operational efficiency and streamline operational costs and water
supply provided to the population, we propose the review, rehabilitation and/or replacement of
wels and an analysis of the distribution network to provide it with the necessary equipment to
promote its efficient operation. We also plan to carry out actions to detect and reduce water
losses in the network.
To stengthen SOAPAP's management capabilities, we plan to develop actions to improve
planning, training and control.
The Master Plan, identifies investments totalling NP$632 million. In order to execute
these actions, the parties deem convenient the following:
*     Promote private sector participation to carry out the investments requr  for the
expansion of water supply in the short term to an additional 0.5 m3/second through the
Nealtican Project.
-     SOAPAP, with its own resources, will carry out the necessary investments to put into
operation the AlUxcayptl wells as well as to improve the operation of current wells. As
a result of these two actions, an additional supply of 0.5 m3/second is expected.
*     Use resources from APAZU to carry out the ecpansion of the collector and gutter
network that will allow to expand coverage to  thousand inhabitants.
3     Promote private participation in the construction of wastwate treatment plans and the
necessary collectors to convey municipal discharges.
*     Carry out the executive projects as well as the studies for the design and evaluation of
pnvate sector participation altemnatives. We propose the use of our own and Federation
resources, through CNA, at the request of S
*     In order to improve the income base, we propose to contract out the private sector for
meteing, billing and collection services.
*     To improve the operational efficiency of the system and modernize the distribution
network, we propose to use the resource mix defined in APAZU.
The attached table shows the identified prionty actions with the estmated investment
amounts, the corresponding goals and the dates when the corrsponding works are
expected to be fully operational.



- 109 -
Page 4 of 5
Drinking Water and Sewerae Program
Priority Actions, Estinad  Investmet and Goas, 1994-199
(in milion NP$)
PROJECT          EXPiICTED         ESTIMTED    FINANCING         OPERATIONAL
RESULTS          INVESTIMT                      AVAILABIliY
Nealtican              incea  of 0.25        56.1         PRIVATE          June 1994
Collectorm/Plants      TreatmW of 3.9        286.0        PRIVATE         JULY 1995
m3Is
Drinking Water Network   20%  rase in         59.4         SOAPAP       Pautiu199S
Expnon                 coverg
Sewg Expanson          20% incse in          82.S          APAZU        Padl/1995
coverage
SOAPAP
Conslidon
* En=acing opeaional   Network               108.5         APAZU           1994-1996
efficiy              Mod tion
* Metering Billing and   rease of inome      40.0         PRIVATE         Marc 1994
Cllection            bans
TOTAL                        632.5



ANE  N
Page S of 5
1SIni0DMuMOPtNOSSsANOue
MMMOAUEDACRTmFORTU WER
APC UI MLOSOWASY     UNFUUOU0J
41610 WOMAIW                   U?4R1  Pri A KEDUvevt~                                   !lE0UETTRtNJR                                          PERAMORI4YbSCAM000
UTAm                                  BY~~~~~~~~~~~~iL  ~~~~~~~~~uw                                                                 pu*CPD SAy-.  NWiLIuPWTmu  V=
_ ___    .                           _    -     '                              - - - - - -____
AO^                                                                                                                          m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cud~m%Nemsws
LOaCMdhpu                1.      S        2tQO000.0                  0    0m    400    400    2.0"    00   0w   __
It""PLANR          bWt1        - ---10 r    lb th   4        0a.       O0      240.0   40A   20.00   40    120.00  20     0.0  02t0    tP00U *1                  VA
LATEST RiwOft      MQidG 1-M1               It      1        200        mm 0     o 04         00   40e   20.   20.    0.e  0.o   EbnaII U0W
(dtd)                 Mrnd WsI              tId     0         0O       m400    00m0   40      O      40*    4*0   2ed    0O    0         Man.aik0is8          b*AOeWWmd
tl¢bJUIXt4O_  X P                                                                                      V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~idosedeAo  we
*IsWOurnedrn                           tMQO        00tMA    41600   40*    4      0 40   210  a"0    Q00  0e        c_w  v.*wt a             on
-O        Wt                                                                                                                                 W       -            1
~~aem,        mg~~O%fwA.qm*Jw&wd       2s                                                                                            WUCATW0.0
t                 lct~~~~~WO42  1 1                                                                                                 tl "
CEmU%Vdw4                2. hOA*wk                                                                                         l    AW  TOW       mm
C     du     2__         20                                                                                            -
a igOb m.            m                                                                                              _mr
0MUCOMn102pKOWSWWA   3c                                                                                               ke          IWI
*A"we&V-P"a _ Ilm                                                                                                         . "
lb 
ftboiwiNoW            4_
_9wmj lid:    ll*t,@_,_*_tteOPIAL_Mf S"ltilb-wZdlbilUbttwn_dlllS                                              Ut..
tOTAL                                                                                   CP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOUbbd
b""v"m  "aftwafts'. 111'                                                             dft-   I    ilad~~~~~~~~~coswbi.



NATIONAL BANK FOR PUBUC WORKS AND SERVICES
(BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS - "BANOBRAS)
mum  Of DIREtUlO
|      &EIERAL D RECTI3ATE 
cM XDUIETICU a mm .       1                    - . . -.... - * .i. . .       w POf  ECS
AND                                                        EVAUTOM AND
iWStI1UTOlUAL EVLUATION                                              SPECIAL STUDIES
...________ .                tisstItuti    I_ lie
. . .  COaIATIS af     I -
ISOCAL COSMICATIU         - international Coufntcatfen
-- Social Ccmeunicatimi
Director of        Dlrector of                                                 Dfrector of
Ptelngi,            Financeal            O frector            ofrector         of Fldaciary            Ofrector           Coaptrotler           States
Promotion and      Engireering              of                   of            and Legel                  of                  of       Oclegations
Technical           Sectorfat            Firancing            Finance          Counselting          Administration        Accowitirn
Assistence          Projects .
m
O0
s 



-112 -                                     ANNEX 0
Page 2 of 2
"BANOBRAS' DEPARTM  OF  ANCE
FMF-
IIIERUTIAUL                                             FIIAWAIL
llPETlel    |                                             MTIOII
Office for                                   Office for
Internationtl                                Int rnotioral
Finrwoe                                      Operat ions
jAssistant     iAFsistant                    Assistant             Assistant
!   mese office         ler'ws               Namige's Office        amer"s Office
!for Trwpekrts          Office for           for Forefon           for Financiat
Sector Assistant        Urban               Tr   and              Sch  1  1
Delcpmunt           Intamtional            Finnfing
_                     ~ ~~~~Tre y



- 113 -
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
National Bank for Public Works and Services
(BANOBRAS)
Thianial Review
A. Introduction
1.    The National Bank for Public Works and Sevices (BANOBRAS) is a
development bank, which is part of the financial sector coordinated by the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit of Mexico. During its 60 years of
existene BANOBRAS has promoted and financed priority activities for the
fderal, distict and municipal governments, as well as parastatal public
agencies in the sphere of urban development, public infrastructre and
services, housing, communications, t on  and construction activities.
B. BANOBRAS Operations
2.    Souc  of financing: BANOBRAS' financial position is strong as it
merely acts as a financial intermediary between funds received from foreign
sources and credits provided to public insttutions with the govennment
guarantee. Its stong financ  posion is also the resut of its substantive
capitlization based on the annual financi profit that has been suppoted by
a healthy financia spread.  For the funding of the  credit programs,
BANOBRAS' main sources of funds are:
(a)    xternal Sources: BANOBRAS, as financial agent of the
Fedel Government, raising lines of credit either with
multilal intemational financial institutions (IDB, IBRD) or
bilateal agencies (Eximbanks). Other sources are Eurobonds
issued in the international capital markets. In 1991 and
October 1993, two series of US$100 miUlion each were issued
through the Credit Swiss FLUst Boston. An issue of US$450
million is planned in 1994.
(b)   Inmal Sourcs: The runs on the loan portfolio, and the
profits of its operations, active and passive are important
sources of funds. llis year, BANOBRAS, after stopping its



- 114 -
ANNEX
Page 2 of 8
first tier operations (time deposits) is raising resources by
blocks of long term deposits. It is to be noted that they have
issued bonds in the national capital markets, which this year
amounted to N$2,000 million.
(c)   Crdit Portfolio:  BANOBRAS' credit demand is serviced by
direct credit operations and credits provided by endorsement
(Govmrnment guarantee). In the case of direct credit, financing
is provided to the public sector under two categories i) as a
government financial agent; and ii) for some institutional
programs the beneficiaries are funding credit requirements of
.4eir own subprojects. In the case of credit by endorsement,
BANOBRAS, through the implementation of new financial
engineering schemes has supported the development of large
scale priority projects either by concessionary schemes or
privatiZation mechanisms.
3.    BANOBRAS' main credit support is granted to: potable water,
sewerage and sanitation, communications and transportation, as well as urban
development and housire programs. It is to be noted that BANOBRAS, in
the implementation of its progrms, has designed important credit
components for the protection of the envimnment and the ecology. The
following table shows BANOBRAS' portfolio:
Table P-1
BANOBRAS' Portfolio Composition
(In millions of N.$)
DECMBER        SEPTEMBIER
I_________________________________________________  1992  1993
GRAND TOTAL:                            19,269         23,064
A) Public Sector                        13,344          14,867
B) Ihstitutional Programs                5,925          4,197
i) States & Municipal Governments      3,537          4,088
ii) Transport                            16              51
iui) Contractors                        437             389
iv) Others                             1,935          3,669
4.    As it is shown in the above table BANOBRAS' portfolio is
concentrated in the public sector which repesents 69.2% of the 1992 total



- 115 -
ANNEX P
Pae 3 of E
portfolio. The states and municipal government portfolio packzage is the
largest one within the Insdtutiona Portfolio Component. in regad to credit
risk BANOBRAS' portfohio composition, as of September 1993, in millions
of new Mexica denonion was:
(a)   Finanaal A&=  56% (N.$12,916) and it is totally guaranteed
by the Federal Government;
(b)   States and Municipalities: 28%  (N.$6,458), out of which a
55% is guaranteed by fiscal pardcipation and the rest is
guaranteed by the Municipality income or the State; and
(C)   Endrmens 16%  (N.$3,690) and it is guaranteed by the
own internal project feasbility and results (own risk).
5.    A system has been established for the application of the methodology
issed by the National Banking Commisson, in the application of the Rules
of Qulification of Loan Portfolios.  This has pmied BANOBRAS to
evaluate its portfolio and the risk level of the borrowers quality periodically.
BANOBRAS' past due portfolio is only 0.7%, with a preventive reserve of
N.$93 million, equvalent to 0.43% of the total portfolio. All of this implies
a healthy financial position of BANOBRAS.
6.   BANOBRAS  chanels its  resources  to  priority  projecs  of
infructure, urban equipment and esecialy for the Program of Potable
Water, Sewerge and Sanitation in Urban Zones, which has contributed to
enlage and improve these public services. Ihe concession of direct credit in
1993 has been incremented and at the end of this year such increment would
be 26.6% compared to 1992. According to the credit projections for the
years 1994 and 1995 the increments in monetary term would rpresent 37.6%
and 13% respectively, as shown in the following table.



- 116 -
ANN= P
Page 4 of 8
Table P-2
Volume of Credit Operations
(In millons of N.$)
19S92    Esti.1993    &tQjC,t1994   Pn jec.1l995
TOT.DIRECIr.          4,482        6,112         9,801        11,274
CREDIT.
A) Public Sector      2,071        3,037         5,516        6,345
B)Institut. Progra.   2,411        3,075         4,285        4,929
i) Urban Developm.    1,070       1,084        2,108         2,415
ii) Potable Wate      702           546        1,079         1,241
iii) Tmnsport         300           361          350           403
iv) Housing           256           764          670           770
v) Contfactors         70          114            78           100
vi) Oeaws              13           206            0             0
7.   With respet to potable waer accoring to the above table the vodume
of crdit to this sub-secor has decresed in 1993, but tkng in ideration
the project executon, lager incrm tens have been projected for the yeas
1994 and 1995. BANOBRAS' lending goas are ambiious; they imply
fuding statees acording to the rates and terms of the projec  to be
financed. The following cash flow has been prepared:



- 117 -
AN~NEX~
Page 5 of 8
Table P-3
Operatonal Cash Flow
(In millions of N.$)
___________________   1992   Estim.1993   Projec. 1994   Projec.1995
A) TOTAL INCOME         8,023       10,664       13,389        16,404
i) Cred.Contracts      1,869       3,161        5,650         6,459
ii) Portf. Recup.     2,202        2,137        2,229         2,546
iii) I)eposits          953        1,631        2,614         3,073
iv) Interest.& Commi.   2,551      3,497        2,696         4,039
__v) Others               448          238          200           229
B) TOTAL EKPBENSES      8,740       10,719       13,389        16,404
i) Loan Disbursem.    4,282        6,112        9,801        11,274
II) Debt RepaymenLt    1,460       1,050          988         1,136
iff) Adm. Expenses.     322         360           378           500
iv) Interest+ Commi.    1,931      2,777        1,962         3,194
v) Others               545         420           260           300
C) BALANCE (A - B)       (717)        (55)          -0-           -0-
8.   BA 3OBRAS divesfies its soures of income, tbing advantage of its
relaionsbip with inrnational financil instiuions and bilatral agencies; and
also of its access to the capital and money markets, intal and exterl, to
obtain credit. in 1993, BANOBRAS issued 2 millions N.$ bonds in the
national market and US$100 milon abroad, with the purpose of proving
long-tem resources to the Institution, reducing costs and avoiding problems
of liqdity. In 1994, a total of approximately 450 million dollars is expected
to be issued in several types of instruments. The fmancial margins are
sufficient to cover the Bank's opertonal expenses and to increase the
resources of the capital reserves.



- 118 -
A      P
Page 6 of 8
Table P4
Summarized 1Balce Sheet
(In milions of N.$)
1992         Estimated: 1993
A) TOTAL ASSETS                      23,379             28,541
i) Portfolio                      19,269             23,365
ii) Other Assets                   4,110              5,176
B) Total Liabilities                 20.669             25,570
i) Fiacing                        12,910              16,787
ii) Other liabilities              7,759              8,783
C) Equity                             2,710              2,971
i) Shars Capital                     130                153
ii) Reserves                       2,524              2,759
D) PROFIT                               56                  59
9.   BANOBRAS  has incrased its financial contols dtoug  the
citalization and  radig of its portfoLio. Ihe results show the strength of
the istution with a sound and duly guaranteed portfolio. As a result of the
strengthening of its capital, BANOBRAS' Equity/Risky Assets ratio has been
kept at healthy level, since the Official Financial Policy for the baking
system states it at 8% and BANOBRAS currently is 25.3%, which repesents
three times the above limit. The following table shows some other
indicators:



- 119 -
Page 7 of 8
Table P-S
FucaI I ndicators
(in Percentages)
= _____________   _________ _ 11992           I     1993
1) Capital/Assets            11.6            110.4
2) Capital/Liabilities        13.1             11.6
3) CapitalRisky Assets       26.1              25.3
4) ArreTotal Poaolio         0.3               0.7
5) Staff Number               2,215            1,961
6) Assets by employee         10.6             14.6
C. Strategy
10.  BANOBRAS priorities are listed in the Insdtutional Stategy Progam
1993-1994, which can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Consolidation of its acton as fiancial agent for the Pedea
GovementL
(b)   Optimization of the use of extea sources of financing.
(c)   Channeing  of private savings to  priority in
prets.
(d)   Advancing the plans for credit markeing.
(e)   Strengtheing its second-dter perations.
(f)   Acquinng capit in block, exploring national and i tional
markets for projects adjusted by rate, amount and terms.
(g)   Adding value to its credit programs, through advanced
technology.
(h)   Taking advantage of the fiduciary scheme to attract prvae
capital.
(1)   Reinforcing technical assistance fimcdons in the municipal field.



- 120 -
ANNEX P
Page 8 of 8
(i)   Guaranteeing the inclusion of ecology and environmental
sanitation procedures in all of its loan programs.
11.  As a policy, the institution supports projects of high social viability in
municipalites with less resources.  It also supports the stengthenig of
municipal finances by providing not only credit but also, as an added value,
technical assistance. Environmental sanitation projects, such as the Program
for Renovation and Substitution of Taxis in the Mexico City Metro Area, and
others regarding municipal equipment for trash collection, are being
advanced, in the light of BANOBRAS new policy regarding the environment
All the above strategies will be considered part of B&INTOBRAS' goals as a
development banlk.



- 121 -
Page 1 of 4
MEICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Executive Coordination Unit
A. Justtion
1.   During the World Bank mission for the preparation of the Water Supply
and Sanitaion Sector Project, it was agreed to create an Executive Coordination
Unit EU) witti speific terms of reference and staffed with professional and
upo  personnel, according to its esponsibilities, in order to accomplish a
though folow-up and control of the execution of the National Program for
Water and Sewerge (APAZU). According to this, BANOBRAS resolves:
(a)   To create an ECU for the Second Water Supply and Sanitation
Sector Project, in order to accomplish a more thorough control
and follow-up of the general execution of the APAZU Program
and of the fnancing of the same project as well as specific
projects fimanced with the resources under the new project for the
sector being considered by the World Bank.
B. Objectves
2.   The ECU for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project would
bave the following objecives:
(a)   Establish a unit with adequate instaLed capacity which would
facilitate BANOBRAS, through the Deprtnment of Financing of
the potable water and sewerage sector, to seifically promote,
verify and follow up the projects financed for the sector, the
execution of the progam and specifically the subproects to be
financed;
(b)   Establish an executive coordination mechanism for the adequate
realization of activities and decision maling by the various
insttutions opeting units, including BANOBRAS, engaged in
the APAZU Program executon and in the new sector project,
being considered by the World Bank and
(c)   Coodinate, specfially in BANOBRAS, the follow up and
manaaement control of the ilobal execution of the APAZU



- 122 -                   ANNA Q
Page 2 of 4
Program and the new sector project, that would require the
participation of BANOBRAS operative departments.
C. Functions
3.   To reach these objectives, the project Executive Coordination Unit,
would have the following functions:
(a)   Act as integration unit in the collection of information related to
the execution, supervision and follow up of the APAZU Ptogram
and the above mentioned new project.
(b)   Verify the sound progress of the APAZU Progmm and the new
sector project being considered by the World Bank.
(c)   Coordine the activities related to the presentation of periodic
progress reports as requested by the World Bank and
BANOBRAS' top management on the execution and follow up of
the APAZU Program and the new project.
(d)   Coordinate activities related to the follow up of the technical
assistance established for each participant institution in the
execution of the new project.
(e)   Propose initiatives for the promotion of the APAZU Program and
the new project, leading to the achievement of the program
objectives.
(f) Follow up on the activities related to the execution of master
plans, annual programming and budgeting for the operating
agencies and their respective investment programs.
(g)   Participating, together with the Department of Financing of the
Potable Water and Sewerage Sector of BANOBRAS, in activities
of supervision and follow up of the subprojects being financed by
the sector, as well as with the technical activities of the National
Water Commission (CNA) and/or other institutions onnected
with the APAZU Program and the new project.
(h)   Participate, together with other offices of BANOBRAS conncted
with the execution of the Program, and/or other paricipating
agencies in the preparation of the amnual program of visits for the
supervision anJ follow up of the subprojects being financed by
the sector project, coordinating its execution and preparation of
reports.



- 123 -
AM  
Page 3 of 4
(i)   Monitor, jointly with other offices of BANOBRAS, the
application of policies established in the APAZU Program and
the new project, terms and conditions of the credit contractual
clauses agreed upon with the World Bank, as well as the ones
established in the credit contracts for each subproject;
Oj)   Provide follow up to the compliance of the master plans and/or
memoranda of agreement, with the information provided by the
offices involved in the APAZU Program execution. To this
effect, it will present reports with recommendations and
suggestions for the correction of problems, as necessary.
(k)   Contribute and coordinate with other offices to present timely
technical and financial information needed for the preparation of
executive and periodic reports on the progress of BANOBRAS
and the World Bank Program. As the executive support unit, it
would follow up on the application of the Management
Information System of the APAZU Program. This follow up
would also apply to the operating agencies and other offices that
would provide basic information on the execution of the
subprojects.
(I)   Following up on the compliance of contrctual obligations with
the World Bank, as well as other commitments with the federal
agencies, and, in this case, state agencies, regarding financial,
technical or environmental aspects, in order to elaborate and
present reports on relevant facts.
(m)  Prepare satisfactory executive and periodic reports to fte World
Bank, in compliance with contacta requirements and adequate
decision making. With this in mind, it would coordinate periodic
reviews of the Management Information System (MIS) of the
Programn, to recommend adjustments if needed.
(n) Ensure that the models to be implanted in the MIS Program, and
the specific information on the social, economic, financial and
technical prgress of the subprojects, permit the traclkng of
agreed monitoring indicators.
(o)   Coordinate actions to evaluate the different components of the
program execution, identifying problems and submitting them to
the Department of Financing to the Potable Water and Sewerage
Sector, for discussion within BANOBRAS and, if needed, present
them to the World Bank to determine any actions to be  kn.
(p)   Monitor the timing and opportulnity of the specific asignatin of
resources, includig federal and state, for the global financing of



- 124 -                  ANNEX Q
Page 4 of 4
the annual plan of investment of the opeating agencies,
particularly in regard to the specific projects. It will also inform
the Department of Financing to the Potable Water and Sewerage
Sector of any problems as detected, and will make
recommendations for actions to solve them.
(q)   Verify that the feasibility studies of the subprojects include the
corresponding analysis of their environmental impact, as well as
measures provided with tis regard.
(r)   Following up on the bidding processes, reimbursements and
disbursements of extemal resources; when necessary,
recommending procedures and methods to improve their
efficiency.
D. Location and Structure
4.    The ECU for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, would be
established under the organizational structure of the Direccid6n Adjunta de
F.awcuento and the Subdirectorate of Financing to the Urban Development
of BANOBRAS, and specifically witiin the Department for the Financing to the
Potable Water and Sewerage Sector.
5.   In its role of executive support unit, this unit will be part of the structure
of the above mentioned departnent, to promote and verify the APAZU Program
and the Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project, to be cofinanced by the
World Bank. Regarding lines of supervision and hierarchy, it will have an
advisoy institutional status in the organization rather than one of line.
6.    The ECU for the project will be managed by an Executive Coordinator,
assisted by the professional and support personnel as required for the
accomplishment of its activities.
7.    The structure and specific location of the ECU for the Project will be,
initially, within the Director of Fiancing of BANOBRAS.



- 125 -
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Natlonal Tr_aing Program
A. Intoducion
1.    The Ntonal Training Program is a crifical component in the successful
achievement of sector objecdves. The program empbasis will be on taining of
personnel of local water uti' (WUs) directly involved with the operation,
mainnan  and aIministration of their systems. As part of the on-going
project (Loan 3271-ME), a significant number of courses and semiars were
administered in the following areas: (a) adminion, (b) commercial; (c)
polution control; (d) unaccounted for wate, and (e)  vemet of elect
efficiency. There were also a number of technical exhanges among WUs.
These actions sported the objectves of the instiuonal stengthening
(consoLidacn) progam which are summarizd as: (a) achieve a more efficent
use of the facilities; (b) inease system coverage and level of service; (c)
im ve drinkdng waw quality; (d) incmase coverage of wastwater collection
improve the quality of its treatment; and (e) improve the financial condition
and autonomy of local water utlities (WUs) by enhancng thidr meteing, billing
and coecdng prce. The poposed project plans to continue this effort of
strengtheng WUs by means of the tmining program summaied in Table R.3.
2.    TChe taiing progrm will be under the guidance of CNA and wil be
implemented by IMTAt in cooperatio with te Asoato of Water Utlities
(BAS).
3.    Since 1989 IMTA and Asocdaddn Nacional de Operadoes de Sistemas
de Agua Potabley Alcantilio (ANOAPA) (now EAS) have oganized sector
training workshp and developed questionnaies aimed at identfying WU's
stengths, weaknesses and taining needs, and designed curricula and manuals.
Inhtally, the workshops wee organized in response to the WUs' self-assessment
of problems and needs. Presently, the workshops respond to a more systmatic
program designed to address those areas iniay identfied. Training mateials
have folowed this approach since 1992 and incude field traning.  The
materials are evaluated and revised periodicaly with the feedback received from
the workshops. The manuals developed for tainng have an instuctor verion
and a trainee version.
,,
1 IMTA (spanish acronym for Mexicn  Istit  of Water Tehnology) is the
branch of the * Sub-Direcci6n General de  fU Hidrlulica Urbana e
lidusti  (SGMUI) responsible for providing sector tehnical assistance and



- 126 -                   AR
Page 2 of 7
4.    The  perience accumulated during the past years indicates that priority
should be given to the continuation of waining of WUs' persoel and state and
regional personnel of CNA. This would be consstent with the dalizton
policy and with the strengteing of CNA, as technical agent, to better serve the
WUs.
B. Objectives
S.    The short-term objectives of the training component of the prposed
project is to ehance skidls of operating agencies with pniorty given to Bank-
assisted subprojects, improve the quality and coverage of water service aid
treatment, and extend the life of facilities. The long-term objective is to bild
an ongoing taining capability within the sector focused on all personnel who are
directly involved in the day to day supervision and administration of opeaing
agencies, especially those involved in opertion, mantenance and fiancial
activities. Specific objectives include:
(a) Strengthening the capacity of IMTA and EAS to prepare and implement
nsymatic, sector-wide, regionally-based training programs;
(b) Systematically train operations and maintenance personnel from the
opeting agencies to improve their skil levels;
(c)   Continue with the ongoing workshops oriented toward  jhandsjn-
aing, turgeted at superiso¢s, technicians, aors and maintece
peronnel involved in wate supply, treatment and distibution as well as
wastewater collection systems and pollution control facilities, and to
administrative personnel in financial and commerial areas;
(d) Upgrading the regional trAining centers;
(e)   Technical assistance to IMTA and CNA to better seve the sector,
(f)   Continue with the preparation of training packages for oprti
agencies' personnel;
(g)   Support the development of skilled supevisors and manage  withn the
opeatig agencies;
(b) Continue with national and international techdnical exhanges;
(1)   Establish a certification program for personnel of the opeating
()   Build pilot plants for bands-on taining at the rgional tainin centers;



- 127 -                        R
Page 3 of 7
C. Approach
6.    The approach to achieve the objectives will focus on the assistance
provided by IMTA, under the directon of CNA. Its role will be to: a) develop,
expand and reorient existing programs for a more systematic, integrated,
practical approach to sector taining needs, with emphasis on the operional and
commercial areas; b) design and present a program of workshops and mateials
based on occupational categories to provide tran  and skdlls necessary for
staff to perform reqired functions and solve oprational problems; c) prvide
training to CNA staff at national, regional and state levels to improve the level
of guidance and technical assisance to operating agencies; and d) cooperate
with, and strengthen EAS, to gradually shift the primary reWonsibility of the
program to the operating agencies themselves, through EAS, at increasgly
decentralized levels. All activities will be designed to meet immediate sector
needs while establishing a solid base to multiply, replicate, and refine the
traning program and reach all operating staff. There will be worlshops to
develop instructors who will organize tan  units withm their, and adjoimng,
operating agencies. Emphasis will be on improving the sklls and knowledge
of those who actually operate and maintain the facilties, and are resonsible for
the quality and delivery of service on a daily basis. On the long tem,
coveatons are being held with the University of Mexico to establish a
graduate program on water utilities management. This program would
concentrate on the integral operation of water and sanition, including
administration and financial aspects.
D. Training program Descriptio
7.    1aMcUa  The tring component to be implmented under the project
is designed to a) assist CNA, BffA, EAS and opeating agenies to improve
sevice through the development of a sector-wide training capabilt; b) update
and upgrade the skills of 4,500 operating personnel of 300 state and local
operating agencies; c) train 500 CNA and IMTA staff to provide sector
assistance at national, regional and state levels. The following estimates have
been made for persomel to be trained by occupational category and type of
faciltes.
Table R.1
Proposed  rii  Targets by Cateory, Type of System and Size.
Ca|te              No.   Type of System    -     No.   Sin *          No.
Mangs                690 Water Supply             1,000     A         2000
Suprviss            1,230  Sewemge                 380      B          1,850
Opeo                1,2V  Waer-Treatment           900      C         1,150
clers                690 Water-Polaution Conrol   1,390
Mante'ae            1', -  Commercilfinae         1,330
TOAL                5,000 _I ______               5000 .,OOO
A,~ D, a  C represet threc levels of service area pufio   size    the
laWest



- 128 -                     ANNEX.R
Page 4 of 7
8.    Training will be accomplished during the four-year period through 200
workshops held in five regional and several state twaining centers. Each
workshop will average 40 hours (one week) with regional facilities being utilized
about ten months per year.  To multiply the short-term  impact and
institutionalize the trning program, 327 supervisors will be trained as
instructors. Fifty of those will be selected to receive additional training on
teaching skills and will become instructors within their and adjoining operating
agencies in operational, maintenance and commercal areas.
9.    The estimates of training needs have been based upon the responsibilities
of the different categories of personnel and the size of the operating agencies.
This is conceptually summaized on Table R.2
Table R.2
Training Requiremenuts Based upon Responsibiliy of Personnel
and Size ' of Operating Agency
Occupational    Water    Water Treatmet   Seweage I Water PoLbutin    Commercial
Category     System        Plant       Systems       I  P          Operation
Manager        Al AA AU                               AS             AU
Supervisor   A, B, C,      A, B        A, B, C        A, B         A, B, C
Technician   A, B, C       A, B        A, B, C        A, B         A. B, C
Operator I   A, B, C       A, B        A, B, C        A, B         A, B, C
Operator II    A            A             A            A              A
Maintenance    A, B, C     A, B          A, B         A, B          A, B
* A, B, and C represent ffree levels of service area population, size A being the
largest.
10.   As the size of the operating agency increases, functional diversification
increases and so does the deg   of scializati. Each course or workshop
will cover all the training needs of the specific responsibilities of a position such
as wastewater treatment plant operator or laboratory technician.
11.   Cmponents. To implement the taining program, financing will be
provided for: a) rehabilitation and purchase of equipment and materials for the
five regional training centers; b) constuction of pilot plants for hands-on
training at three of the five regional centers; c) consultant services to assist in
the implementaton of the progam; c) technical exchanges at national and
intnational level to promote tehnology transfer between operting agencies;
and d) over 200 workshops.



- 129 -                   AM=
Page 5 of 7
12.   Rgional Tining Fclites and Eupmet. IMTA has five regional
tining centers: Los Berros, (Mexico State); Ciudad Aleman, (Veracuz); San
Roque, (Nuevo Leon); Merida, (Yucatan); and Cuemravaca. In order to provide
hands-on training, pilot wastwater treatment plants are being prposed at thee
of these facilities. Each of these plants will be based on a different treatment
technique, with one of the plants oxiented to industrial waste discharges.
13. Program Development and Phasing. The program is already running so
emphasis will be given to continung its momentm at the same time that
adjustments are made to improve the existing courses and develop new ones.
Dunng the intial period, assistance will be provided to support the following
concurrent activities: a) continue with the needs assessment of operating
agencies. Standardized methodology developed by IMTA will be used by a
team of IMTA and EAS personnel to assess  ational requirements, peronnel
and staff skils within each agency, and identify trng need to upgade
performance to meet operational standards; b) update database and basline,
establisted during the ongoing project, which constitts the basis for measuring
the impact of the progam; c) ins8tutionalize the use, sector wide, of moitoig
indicators so that the effects of subsequent training and insion
strengthening can be measured; and d) revise and update taining program and
workshop curricula. The latter program will focus on integrated training of
sector personnel to understand, organize and perfom all the task required of
teir positions competendy; curricula, workshop topics, instctors and materials
and manuals will be reviewed and revised to present a prctical, fimcdonal
approach taught by experienced operators and supported by simple working
manuals to be used on the job. The emphasis of training will continue on
teaching people to first fulfill basic resonsibilities to prevent problems and then
incorporate diagnosis of special problems and take the needed steps to solve
them.
14.  Technical Assistance and Training. Six staff-months Of extemalhnical
assistance and taining have been inluded for the development and
implementation of a certfication program for operators of water and sanitin
systems.  The assistace will be provided by the Ameican Board of
Cerdfication (ABC) and by the Ontario Enviromental Training Consordum
(OETC). The certification progmm will begin with opertors of water and
wastewater treatment plants first, followed by opeators of potable water
distribution systems and wastewater coBecdon systems and, finly, it would
cerify the administraive personnd. Technical assisn  wil also be required
in the prepaation of specific trainig packages for which IMTA does not have
the know-how or the personnel available.
15. Technical -Exchage Progmam. This program was initiated under the
ongoig project and received a good reacton from the participants. IMTA and
CNA have received invitations from international water utilities interested in
particpating in the program. A selecdon of participants will be made so that
toe  who participate are at a degree of skills that can most benefit from the
exhange. Concurrently, a number of national exchanges have begum to take



- 130 -
Page 6 of 7
place, and wil be encouraged, between Mexican operting agencies to discss
thdir problems and share their solutions. L.st1y and very important, ffie most
advanced operaing agencies are beginning to participate in exchanges with less
developed countries to share their eWperiences and hence provide technical
aistance to those countries.
16.   Horziontal Training. The EAS will continue the horizontal tmaining
progam started previously in coordination with prqect activities. The baseline
diagnosis of strengths and weaknesses of individual agencies will allow a more
objctidve basis for matching compatible agencies.  Within the regional
workshops, agencies will be paired so they can continue to work together after
the end of the formal sessions.
17. Costs and Financing. The total cost associated with the national training
program during 1994-1997 is estimated at US$4.7 million. The 230 workshops
are estimated at US$7,300 per workhop or, with 5000 students, $340 per
sudent for an average of a one-week course. EAS costs will be paid by
member agencies. Also note that hands-on training for operators are expected
to be self-financing by 1996. (Table R.3)



Page 7 of 7
TABLE R-3
TRANG PROGRAM FOM LOCAL WATER TUTLrES
ilrnm
1994            US$               1995              US$              1996            US$             1997              USS
Develop guies and    2SO,000   Develop ceitificadion      270,000   Develop materials       140,000  Develop guidelines and     140,000
5 taining packages                 a                                                                 training packages
Taning of instuctor    65,000    Training of nstuto        65,000   Tring of instructors    6S,000   Traini  of inst            6S,O
(3 courses of 40 hours           (for pilot plants)                 (for pilt plants)                (for pilot plants)
and 6 coutses of 16 bra)
9 workshops on waer    110,000   9 worsops on watsr        120,000
distton                          disldb
Omduab program         200,000                                                                                           __ _
Conine courses (39) at   450,000   Continue corses (15) at    170,000   Cotnue cous  (15) at   200,000  Continu courses (IS) at  200,000 H
ste  v                           sta level                          state level                      dstae level 
Tecnical excbags        60,000    Techial exhuanges        60,000   Technical excanges      65,000   Techicd exchanges           65,000
Rehabilitation of      180,000   Reablitation of traiing   16S,000
-aii  ceotets                     cnter.s
Contuction of pilot    360,000   Constion of pilot        360,000   Handon workhops at        Self    Hands wokhops at          Self
teatmet plat                     ketmutplat. Hand                    pilot plants (45)     financ   pilot plants (45)        finacing
an workshops at pilot
________________                  plnts (26)
Planig and             255,000   Planning ad devdopment   200,000   Planning and            200,000  Catifiation of levels 1    200,000
dvelpmnt of the first            of the soond cetification           developnt of the third          and It and start lvel m
cerificatio lvel                 leved                              cetification level
TOTAL   -1,V30,000                                        1,410,000                   .    670,000   _______
! 5- - | l - l- -- - ---- - - - . :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,6:-RNe80,000



Annex S
Pilery hinvestments Reco      ended  In Corrspond    Master Pans Covein  a  -yew  Pod
_                                               . .nm                 -         _
CdLeems.Bs - e992                      310  2      LOW               3        16591        12063        13976       43750
bI           _           19P3           44.502     LOWs                        9.170        4.841        1.219 --   lat2
Ls.mss                                  1993          400829      LOW            868         106,99       4,734       44.013       69
L_m..atsee    S Anndd                   1993            6         Low            40      3    .643        4,901        7.6s        20079
Nobeste  Coettacodcoe        1993          23.661    LO W11                       2616         7.6756      16928       34301
t993    1      738       LOW             7298        466          7.971        6084        26.027
NWM  L Lift1993            L89827      Low            4684         261  7=007               7731        22083
Edibd                    1893                      LOW44.7         2895         5739       10I94        t 9,953     37 703
waresto                                                IA~~991800  LW  6978        1294838  13                 122   S"48492
Nuts                                    1O992          82209      Lw             163            7737      378          12649        0860
mmoods     -nnf                      t99W t8.3                                 .o         180307       2.932        3.43E      -24.9ee
NOWt"         M2xied                     992                      LOW            3701          107,Bso    12384       61,2497     41.426
Sweeosts      HwnwOo                    19s2          14849                      B61            2SO 34961                372        2.412
Sett8S992                                             182405                     3921          77 i9                   29 64 17.20 
sweets  Sn1 t90s3                         4W04374     Low              4s1        4,0S         876          4406        17,931
kSweets       Sm sAsw 1ss3 10.423                                        -9                      3e 0      1206          74 3    4  )131
Soweet          SonC tbd                19923          82131      LOW                9        1003         328         3,11         60s1
zed                                  _7 ITe   1o 8                                4            3937                    6.2836      1263
Sweets        MsId.                     199           070000      L414                                      98770 _4682
SU"do ~      ~        ~        ss            402t273                                  "S02      ejl          2.180        e.e3e
S3_ts              S         S1993                    260.309     Low_ 12,407                11666I       206837   1 133 9         6678i9
__~~~~~~~JL..                             126988   t0.S 744                       3.874   t121i56 t   60926            22.700
VsilsdsMesdco   A            ~~~~~~1993      6002       Lo               9630                     2646         704        1809
VdsdsMead1o 1993    1                                   ,9O631   LOw               970          72          409        2,741        4,119
VulsdeMsideo   tus          1993        1.06090il4   Low            46          360904 _     25761        69,376      10786
SW"" ddto        t1An                                                                         1 19S3 39.199  Lo  938  -   204  214  0  1.366
sdweeMlo         toS9       6,4 -       1993           I7.181     Low              9t5 91                   305            0        1331
TC twO.03B.S2t                                  20Is9X 90     437          29083      38.731     1731,82
ANNE!t6.XL8



- 133 -                              S
Page 2 of 5
lvesment support to Local Water UtilMies
1.    This component would provide credit to WUs, in the amount of
US$657.1 million. Credit would be arranged thrugh BANOBRAS by means
of subloans for specific subprojects. In order for a WU to gain access to this
credit, it is necessary that: (a) the WU complies with the conditions of
eligibility; (b) a subloan agreement for a specific subproject is established
between the WU and BANOBRAS; and (c) the actions supported by the
subproject are selected through a methodical and integmal planning process.
2.    Conditions of Eligibilit. The first step in the process of channeling
funds to a WU is determining whether it is eligible for unrestricted or resticted
credit. A WU would become fully eligible for credit if it complies with the
following eligibility criteria:
-     be organized as a financially autonomous water and sewerage
agency. A WU is classified as autonomous if it has its own
separate legal personality, its finances are independent of the
municipality or the state, it has ownership of all its assets, proper
commercial accounting and auditing, and a Board of Directors
with final legal authority to manage its operatons;
*     bave an approved Master Plan' prepared following CNA's
guidelines (Annex K) which are satisictory to the Bank and
-     have tariffs in place which cover at least operating and
maintenance costs (excluding depreciation) and debt service.
3.    A W   unable to comply with all of the above critea, would still be
eligible to obtain restricted credit. In this case, aggregate disbursements would
be limited to US$5 million each for municipalities with population larger than
80,000 and US$1 million each for municipalities with less than 80,000
inhabitants. These restricted loans are intended to help in the process of
decentalization and financial autonomy of the WUs, by supporing actions
oriented mainly to its institutional strengthening, and to preclude the WU from
entering into sizable infrastructure investments for which no comprehensive
plnning analysis has been completed.
1. A Master Plan is prepared for a sween to ten year planning horizon and includes detied
infoumation: the existing conditions of the WU; an alauation of prset and fitue
infiastructure needs; financial and insdtitonl needs, and a recommded plani to addres
those needs, including a cbronogm  of actions for the first tbree yeas. The
recofmendations for infiastucture investments would be based on the least exsive
FOmtl.         .8    .. 2..t a1..  - ,w: - . -- D K   -



- 134 -                              S
Page 3 of 5
4.    Suboan conditions. BANOBRAS will establish a subloan agreement
with a fully eligible WU if the following subloan conditions are met:
*     the actions to be supported are contained on an agreed upon
Memorandum of Understanding (MU)2. Recording of the MU
and its corresponding Annex for the first year would be a
condition to apply for the subloan;
*     commitnent by the WU to maintain water and sewerage rates in
accordance with the tariff schedule specified in the Master Plan
to cover the recommended investment progrm;
*     agreement by the WU on a minimum  contnbution to the
subproject financing from its Internal Cash Generation. These
minimum contributions depend on the type of project and the size
and poverty index of the municipalities served by the WUs and
are summarized on Tables 2.6 and 2.7 of the SAR; and
*     the proposed subproject must present a minimum economic rate
of return of 12%.
5.      .S ;don     A subproject compnses a set of actions to be
executed by a WU and to be financed with the proceeds of a subloan. The
actions are derived from a MU, based upon an approved Master Plan prared
for that parcular WU, following CNA's guidelines and apprved by CNA.
Actions to be included under a subproject fall within one of the following four
categores: (a) insdtutional strengthening (consolidaci6n); (b) water supply
infrastu   ; (c) wastewater colection (sege) i                 and (d)
wastewat treatment (sewage) i             Subloans are expected to nge
in cost from a few thousand dollars, e.g. minor imovements to exdstg
ficilities, to tenfts of millions of dollars in case of new infras , such as
large wastewater treatment facilites. Following are examples of the type of
actions expected to be financed.
2. A Memoradum of Undestandng is a document that summaris dt findings and
iecomndatons of its corresponding Master Plan for institdona strengtning and for
water supply, swewa  and snitation investme. A MU w  specify the of actions
(insioal stztsu aig g nd/or infrastructure investments) to be undertake duaing a
twelve moth perod icluding schel for te exemin, estmaed costs, fina   mix
(% of the fnds coming fm   it federal/state gants and/or IOG) and the targets to be
reacUd by the WU moniting indicators as a result of the implementation of th
ojcts. A bey element of the MU is its Annex, which will be updated at least on  a
yea, wh  te speific inrasucture investments and nstiutoa struagtempn acos to
be cared out during the foSg twelve month pid would be lseL Ih anne wouLd
ao list tHe key opetiond and finail pefom    indicato and tIe target to be



- 135 -
ANNA 
Page 4 of 5
6.    Water Supply Infrastructure would include actions related to the
expansion and rehabilitation of water supply and distribution systems, such as:
(a) surface water intakes which could include, but not limited to, bar
racks, coarse and fine screens, raw water pump stations, valves and
control systems;
(b) wells which could include, but not limited to, encasements with
screens, pumps, above ground or submersible motors, valves, meters
and control systems;
(c) storage tank for raw or treated water which could be prefabricated
or built in place, made of concrete or steel, be installed undeground, on
the grund or elevated and would include piping, valves, inspection
manholes and control systems;
(d) tran   on mains, these are pipes of medium to large diameter
with few connecons, made of usually ductle iron or concrete with their
coresponding valves and fittings to convey raw or treated water,
(e) treatment pbults which could include aeration, rapid mixing,
flocculaton equpment, settling basins, filters, backwash and surfaoe
waer pumps and storage tanks, with application at different locations of
disinfectants such as chlonne, chloramines or ozone, coagulants such as
aluminum sulphate or ferinc chloride, chemicals for pH control and
alkalinity control such as lime and other products for odor control such
as activated carbon;
(t) disinfection facilities, other than the ones located at treatment plants,
are usually stand-alone facilities installed at the discharge of wells,
intakes and booster pumps, or at storage tanks, and usually inject sodium
hypochlorite;
(g) booster pump stations are relay pump stations that convey the water
to higher eleions could include, but not limited to, above ground or
submersible pump/motor units, piping, valves, pressure sensors and
control equipment; and
(h) dlstibution networks consist of pipes, usually between 2 an 6
inches, with their cofresponding valves, made of ductile iron, galvanized
steel or plastic.
7.    Wastewater Collection Infrastructure would include actions related to the
expansion and rehabilitation of sewer systems, such as:
(a) lateras which are the smaller diameter sewers, usually 4 inches in
AinmoftwrandA made o%f conctrata ^r %av; %rzl6stic-   -&-ah Vnif



- 136 -                    AN=   i
Page 5 Of S
residential, commercial, institutional and industial dischargers and
convey it into trunk sewers;
(b) trk sewers are the larger diameter sewers, usually made of
concrete, which collect wastewater from the laterals and convey it to a
treatment plant or a point of discharge, if unIltd;
(c) pump stations which could include, but not limited to, bar racks,
wet well duplex or tnplex pumps with above ground or submesible
motors, valves, usually an emergency generator and control systems;
8.    Wastewater Treatment Infrastructure, although not intended by the
Government of Mexico to be financed out of this project, is nevertheless eligible
and would include actions related to the design and construction of wastewater
treatment fcilities such as:
(a) prinary treatment plat which would most liky conist of
lagoons with few mechanical equipment, or other facilities provided with
equipment such as bar racks, wet wells, duplex or triplex pumps with
above ground or submersible motors, valves, settling tanks, digesters
usually, sludge handling facilities, disinfection facilities, a small
laboatory and control systems;
(b) secondary treatment plnts, in additon j the primary facilities
would include a secondary treatment system such as polishing agoons
with or without aeration, biofilters, activated sludge, oxidation ditches
and recirculation pumps;
(c) tertiary or advanced treatment plants, not likely to be utilized
unless special conditions at either the inlet, such as unusual
containiation of the wastewater, or more often at the receiving water
body, as in the case of lakes utilized for water supply, require the use
of more advanced techniques. These plants, in addition to facilties
included within primary and secondary facilities, other trains of
treatment such as filtration, reverse osmosis, or other special systems.
Under the subloan, financing would also be provided for engineering, preparng
detailed design documents and construction suprv;ision.
9. The lnstitutional stregthening (ConsofiWacd6) actions would pay special
atttion to: (a) the commercial and financial areas, including macro and micro
metering; 0) reducing unaccounted for water, (c) incsng the effciency of
elect      cal equipment; (d) improvements to increase pressure in the
distribution systems; and (e) taining of staff in the areas of man t,
operation and maintenance of water and wasswater stms.



- 137 -
ANNEX T
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Mi00ions)
IBRD                            Disbursements     Cumulative
Fiscal   Semesters                 for the      Disbursements at   Cumenagve
Yea                               Semester      end of Semester    Percentage
1995   December 31, 1994   a/        50              50.0             14.3
June 30, 1995                30              80.0             22.9
1996   December 31,1995              55             135.0             38.6
June 30, 1996                55              190.0            54.3
1997   December 31, 1996             50             240.0             68.6
June 30, 1997                50             290.0             82.9
1998   December 31, 1997             30             320.0             91.4
June 30, 1998                30             350.0             100.0
Total:         350
a/ Includes disbursements for retroactive financing of 35 million
Anumotions:
Loan Signing Date:            June, 1994
Loan Effectiveness Date:      August, 1994
Project Completion:           March 31, 1998
Loan Closing Date:            September 30, 1998
ANNEXT.XLS



-138 -
ANNE U
Page I of S
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Selected D menb Availe In the Projed Mle
A. General
1.    Prvate Sector Paricipation Study. Par n of the Private Sector
in Bilding, Fiancing and Opaing of Waste Watr Tratment
Plants in Mexic. (Loan 3271-ME). By. R. Bruce Cuthbertson.
May 14, 1993.
2.    Proposal to asist The World Bank in strenening the Prtoect
Management Controls over the (WSS) Project m Mexico. Prepared
by Intal Audits Branch, C.A.C. April 1993.
3.    La marginaci6n en los municipios de M6xico, 1990. Consejo
Nacional de Poblaci6n (CONAPO).
4.   Indicadoes Socioecon6micos e Indice de Marginaci6n Municipal
1990. CONAPO.
S.    Progama de desarrollo instuional Propuesta de proyecto paa la
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua. Por Empresa Conslton Gnrpo de
Ecnomistas y Asociados.
6.    Reabiliai6 de las fuentes de abasimiento del sisem  de agua
potable de Apatzigan, Mi:choacin. Por CIDE S.A. de C.V.
B. CNA
7.    Reuni6n del programa nacional de agua potable y alcantaiLdo. Los
Mochis, Sin. 17 de mayo de 1990.
8.   Informe Anual 1991. Estudios y Proyectos.
9.    Subdireccin General de  imestructra Hiddulica, Urbana e
IndustriaL  atrum  de la Subdirecci6n General
10.   Subdirecddn Geneal de lautcma         idrca, Urbana e
Industrial. Gercia de Potabilizacidn y Tratazmiento del Agua.
Ihventario nacnal de plantas de tratamiento de aguas reiduales.
Diciembre 1992. Cuadro resumen par estado.



- 139 -ANU
Page 2 of 5
11.  Subdirecci6n Geneal de Infraestmrtura Hidr4ulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consolidaci6n de organismos
operadores. Legislacion vigente de agua potable en las entidades
federativas.
12.  Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructum RidrAulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consolidaci6n de organismos
operadores. Listado de estudios en proceso y terminados. lo. de
julio de 1993.
13. Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura Hldrlulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consofidaci6n de organismos
operadores. Gufa para la elaboraci6n de planes maestros pam el
mejoramiento de los servicios de agua potable, alcantarllado y
saneamiento. 1993.
14.  Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura Hlidrlulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consolidaci6n de organismos
operadores. Programa Intensivo de apoyo a la consolidaci6n de
organismos operadores de agua potable para el anio de 1993.
15.  Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructum Hidrnulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consolidaci6n de organismos
opeadores. Criteios pam el desarrollo del programa de apoyo a la
consolidaci6n. Sfntesis.
16.  Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura Hdriulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la conolidai6n de organismos
operadores. Indices de gesti6n organismos operadores. Julio 1993.
17.  Subdirecci6n Genral de Infdestrucura Hldrxulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de apoyo a la consolidaci6n. Plan maestro para
el mejoramiento de los servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento de la ciudad de Puebla. Resumen Ejecutivo. Marzo
1993.
18.  Subdirecci6n Geneal de Inestructura Hldrdulica Urbana e
Industrial. Gerencia de Construcci6n. Plantas de tatamiento de
aguas residuales. Costos.
19.  Subdirecci6n General de Infraestructura Idrnulica, Urbana e
Industrial. Programa de fortalecimiento institucional de la CNA.
20. Subdireocion General de Infraestructura Hidriulica Urbana e
Industrial. Programa de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento.
21.  Cuadro cobeura actual (1989-1992) situaci6n actal y proyeccidn de
cobetura 1993-1997.



- 140 -                   ANNEX U:
Page 3 of 5
22.  Ingresos totales de los organisinos operadores 1990-1993 indicando el
porcentaje de cobro sobre lo ficturado.
23.  Evoluci6n de tarifas 1989-1992 en nuevos pesos y US$ a nivel de
ciudades y de organismos operadores.
24.  Proyecto AR-9303: terminos de referencia, estudio compaxativo del
disefno y la operaci6n de plantas de tratamniento de aguas residuales
municipales. Enero 1993.
25.  Recaudacion por el pago de los derechos por uso o aprovechamiento
de bienes del dominio piiblico de la naci6n como cuerpos receptores
de las descargas de aguas residuales.
26. Subdirecci6n General de Planeaci6n y Finanzas. Gufa para la
determinaci6n del importe del derecho por descarga de aguas
residuales industriales.
27.  Lineamientos generales pam el desarrollo de la actividad in stitcional.
Septiembre 1993.
28.  Pogama agua limpia. Acciones a corto plazo.
29.  Inventario Nacional de Plantas de Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales.
Abril 1993.
30.  Eficiencias de Tratamiento de Plantas Municipales en Operaci6n.
31. Agua potable, alcantari11ado y saneamiento en zonas urbanas. Anexo
al manual inico de operaci6n del progrma nacional de solidaridad.
Enero 1993.
32.  Estudio comparaivo del disefno y la operaci6n de plantas de
tratauiento de aguas residuales municipales. Proyecto UI:9307.
Primer Inforne Cuatrimestral enero-abril 1993.
33.  Carta de polftica.
34.  Participaci6n y componentes del IMTA 1994-1997. 20 de octubre de
1993.
35. Situacion actual del subsector agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento. Agosto 1992.
36.  The Mexican water industry. By Carlos Casasds. June 9, 1993.
37.  Segundo proyecto sectori de agua potable, alcantarlado y
saneamiento. Documento pam discusion. 22 de febrero de 1993.



- 141 -
ANNEX U
Page 4 of 5
38.  A Reflection on Current Issues Concening Mexico's Water Resources
Management and Development. By Eriqe Aguilar Amilpa, Special
Advisor to the CNA, Mexico. Presented at the AWWA's 1993
Annual Conference and Exposition, San Antonio, Texas, USA. June
8, 1993.
39.   Actualizaci6n a 1991 de la cobertura de servicios de agua potable y
alcantarillado en base al X1 Censo General de Poblacidn y Vivienda,
1990. Agosto 1992.
40. Gerencia Regional Lerma-Balsas. Subgerencia de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento. Avance del programa de saneamiento de la cuenca
Lerma-Chapala. Abril 1993.
41.  Indices de gesti6n bNsicos de organismos operadores.
42.   Procedimientos para la implementaci6n del progama de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneaniiento. 9 de junio de 1993.
43.  Cuadro comparaivo de las acciones de capacitaci6n l989-1992 y
1993-1997.
.  Informe Anual 1991. Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologfa del Agua
(WrA).
45.  Informe Anual 1992. IMTA.
46.  Avances y propuestas del progmanma de capacitaci6n en agua potable,
alcntarilladoy saneamiento. Julio 1993. IMTA.
47.   Relacion de trabajos publicados del IMTA.
48.   Compendio de informaci6n sobre el pla maestro 'Tuxtepec,
OaxacaM.
49. Situaci6n actual del subsector agua potable y alcantarillado y
saneamiento a diciembre de 1992.
50.   Organismos esmales. Documentos.
51.   Programa de capacitacion en agtua potable, alcantarilladoy
seanQmijnto. Taller de seguridad en estaciones de cloracidn. Abril
1992.
52.   nforme de avance del progama con cifras al 31 de diciembre de
1992. Prstamo 3271-ME. Mayo 1993.



- 142 -                         U
Page 5 of S
53.  Informe de avance del programa con cifras al 30 de junio de 1993.
Prestamo 3271-ME. Septiembre 1993.
54. Evolucifn de tarifas industriales en localidades con 80,000 o mas
habitantes.
55.  Evoluci6n de tarifas dom6sticas en localidades con 80,000 o mas
habitantes.
56.  Evoluci6n de tarifas comerciales en localidades con 80,000 o mas
habitantes.
57.  Ingresos totales de los organismos operadores en localidades con
80,000 y mas habitantes.
58. Compendio de informaci6n sobre el plan maestro 'Nopales, Sonorea
59.  Programa de agua potable y alcantarillado en zonas urbanas.
lnversi6n lfquida con recursos propios realizado por organismos
operadores de lo sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado 1991-1992.
60.   Rehabilitaci6n de los pozos y equipos de bombeo del sistema de agua
potable de Apatzingan, Mich.
C. BANOBRAS
61.  Estrategia BANOBRAS. Hacia la construcci6n de un nuevo
BANOBRAS.
62.  Unidad de Coordinaci6n Ejecutiva. Justificaci6n y Creaci6n. 27 de
septiembre de 1993.
63.  Unidad de Coordinaci6n Ejecutiva. Documento de atribuciones y
funciones. Octubre 1993.
64. Gerencia de Financiamiento al Sector Agua Potable y Alcantarillado.
Participaci6n de organismos operadores con recursos propios en
inversiones a los sistemas de agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento.
65.  Programa para la prevenci6n y control de la contaminaci6n del agua
en Mexico.



>.\2MO~~~~~~~to                                                       10                                    MEXICO                               10219
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION PROJECT
No4 ; o                                                                                                         Nonol aitol
30-     \>                    <<         /   j       _          \\                                                                       -     a30-
<~~~~~~~~                                                        Cd A t  .  , d
_t  .   _  W  -\  ;  tura >  gx  %  No bnil cQpil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otom   cp'q
\v._RS~~~~~~~~~~,A, -.. b........................,-/\>       /                         /                             R, i ,Ow 
LoCto                                                     NUA I                                            4   PI'dcpal oitireot
Med...                                                             -  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soawed mv,aintogsd
su 9 W ys X h > . . Rv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilror
Aor W  \ <    A  +                                                                E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Picia_l a>i,po t
r~~~~Tr                                                                           Soteateaa boundaties
\,            ACuliqeen O v S~~D  A IV GfQ6 ( s\s5        e    gUs!
Dum n .g _ /  ZACAT  CAS     i
aM O     'SAN                    I UfO   OS
NA AR T7 '
meewelees  ~ *         _      o                                                                   tm~                         4 atllaG°'ieoNA
2ItE S   O   1 0 0   2 0 0    2 0 0                                                                      1             I                                 - I
ParloEdineBi                              GUATEMALA        j
The .on.antan.e o@<f ,eod2 e,  lor ;n   mota ,    ofC
ornk  any w ..e..  or aatana o                                                                                Tapa                     ) HONDURAS
ued beuncfrdorae                                                                                                                       (rfo
h~~~~~~~ tao                                                                                                                    t
7'                           !BELIZE      1'92



